<|startofbook|><|title|>Court of Thrones and Roses <|title|>Chapter 1 <|startofchapter|>The forest had become a labyrinth of snow and ice. I'd been monitoring the parameters of the thicket for an hour, and my vantage point in the crook of a tree branch had turned useless. The gusting wind blew thick flurries to sweep away my tracks, but buried along with them any signs of potential quarry. Hunger had brought me farther from home than I usually risked, but winter was the hard time. The animals had pulled in, going deeper into the woods than I could follow, leaving me to pick off stragglers one by one, praying they'd last until spring. They hadn't. I wiped my numb fingers over my eyes, brushing away the flakes clinging to my lashes. Here there were no telltale trees stripped of bark to mark the deer's passing--they hadn't yet moved on. They would remain until the bark ran out, then travel north past the wolves' territory and perhaps into the faerie lands of Prythian--where no mortals would dare go, not unless they had a death wish. A shudder skittered down my spine at the thought, and I shoved it away, focusing on my surroundings, on the task ahead. That was all I could do, all I'd been able to do for years: focus on surviving the week, the day, the hour ahead. And now, with the snow, I'd be lucky to spot anything--especially from my position up in the tree, scarcely able to see fifteen feet ahead. Stifling a groan as my stiff limbs protested at the movement, I unstrung my bow before easing off the tree. The icy snow crunched under my fraying boots, and I ground my teeth. Low visibility, unnecessary noise--I was well on my way to yet another fruitless hunt. Only a few hours of daylight remained. If I didn't leave soon, I'd have to navigate my way home in the dark, and the warnings of the town hunters still rang fresh in my mind: giant wolves were on the prowl, and in numbers. Not to mention whispers of strange folk spotted in the area, tall and eerie and deadly. Anything but faeries, the hunters had beseeched our long-forgotten gods--and I had secretly prayed alongside them. In the eight years we'd been living in our village, two days' journey from the immortal border of Prythian, we'd been spared an attack--though traveling peddlers sometimes brought stories of distant border towns left in splinters and bones and ashes. These accounts, once rare enough to be dismissed by the village elders as hearsay, had in recent months become commonplace whisperings on every market day. I had risked much in coming so far into the forest, but we'd finished our last loaf of bread yesterday, and the remainder of our dried meat the day before. Still, I would have rather spent another night with a hungry belly than found myself satisfying the appetite of a wolf. Or a faerie. Not that there was much of me to feast on. I'd turned gangly by this time of the year, and could count a good number of my ribs. Moving as nimbly and quietly as I could between the trees, I pushed a hand against my hollow and aching stomach. I knew the expression that would be on my two elder sisters' faces when I returned to our cottage empty-handed yet again. After a few minutes of careful searching, I crouched in a cluster of snow-heavy brambles. Through the thorns, I had a half-decent view of a clearing and the small brook flowing through it. A few holes in the ice suggested it was still frequently used. Hopefully something would come by. Hopefully. I sighed through my nose, digging the tip of my bow into the ground, and leaned my forehead against the crude curve of wood. We wouldn't last another week without food. And too many families had already started begging for me to hope for handouts from the wealthier townsfolk. I'd witnessed firsthand exactly how far their charity went. I eased into a more comfortable position and calmed my breathing, straining to listen to the forest over the wind. The snow fell and fell, dancing and curling like sparkling spindrifts, the white fresh and clean against the brown and gray of the world. And despite myself, despite my numb limbs, I quieted that relentless, vicious part of my mind to take in the snow-veiled woods. Once it had been second nature to savor the contrast of new grass against dark, tilled soil, or an amethyst brooch nestled in folds of emerald silk; once I'd dreamed and breathed and thought in color and light and shape. Sometimes I would even indulge in envisioning a day when my sisters were married and it was only me and Father, with enough food to go around, enough money to buy some paint, and enough time to put those colors and shapes down on paper or canvas or the cottage walls. Not likely to happen anytime soon--perhaps ever. So I was left with moments like this, admiring the glint of pale winter light on snow. I couldn't remember the last time I'd done it--bothered to notice anything lovely or interesting. Stolen hours in a decrepit barn with Isaac Hale didn't count; those times were hungry and empty and sometimes cruel, but never lovely. The howling wind calmed into a soft sighing. The snow fell lazily now, in big, fat clumps that gathered along every nook and bump of the trees. Mesmerizing--the lethal, gentle beauty of the snow. I'd soon have to return to the muddy, frozen roads of the village, to the cramped heat of our cottage. Some small, fragmented part of me recoiled at the thought. Bushes rustled across the clearing. Drawing my bow was a matter of instinct. I peered through the thorns, and my breath caught. Less than thirty paces away stood a small doe, not yet too scrawny from winter, but desperate enough to wrench bark from a tree in the clearing. A deer like that could feed my family for a week or more. My mouth watered. Quiet as the wind hissing through dead leaves, I took aim. She continued tearing off strips of bark, chewing slowly, utterly unaware that her death waited yards away. I could dry half the meat, and we could immediately eat the rest--stews, pies ... Her skin could be sold, or perhaps turned into clothing for one of us. I needed new boots, but Elain needed a new cloak, and Nesta was prone to crave anything someone else possessed. My fingers trembled. So much food--such salvation. I took a steadying breath, double- checking my aim. But there was a pair of golden eyes shining from the brush adjacent to mine. The forest went silent. The wind died. Even the snow paused. We mortals no longer kept gods to worship, but if I had known their lost names, I would have prayed to them. All of them. Concealed in the thicket, the wolf inched closer, its gaze set on the oblivious doe. He was enormous--the size of a pony--and though I'd been warned about their presence, my mouth turned bone-dry. But worse than his size was his unnatural stealth: even as he inched closer in the brush, he remained unheard, unspotted by the doe. No animal that massive could be so quiet. But if he was no ordinary animal, if he was of Prythian origin, if he was somehow a faerie, then being eaten was the least of my concerns. If he was a faerie, I should already be running. Yet maybe ... maybe it would be a favor to the world, to my village, to myself, to kill him while I remained undetected. Putting an arrow through his eye would be no burden. But despite his size, he looked like a wolf, moved like a wolf. Animal, I reassured myself. Just an animal. I didn't let myself consider the alternative--not when I needed my head clear, my breathing steady. I had a hunting knife and three arrows. The first two were ordinary arrows--simple and efficient, and likely no more than bee stings to a wolf that size. But the third arrow, the longest and heaviest one, I'd bought from a traveling peddler during a summer when we'd had enough coppers for extra luxuries. An arrow carved from mountain ash, armed with an iron head. From songs sung to us as lullabies over our cradles, we all knew from infancy that faeries hated iron. But it was the ash wood that made their immortal, healing magic falter long enough for a human to make a killing blow. Or so legend and rumor claimed. The only proof we had of the ash's effectiveness was its sheer rarity. I'd seen drawings of the trees, but never one with my own eyes--not after the High Fae had burned them all long ago. So few remained, most of them small and sickly and hidden by the nobility within high-walled groves. I'd spent weeks after my purchase debating whether that overpriced bit of wood had been a waste of money, or a fake, and for three years, the ash arrow had sat unused in my quiver. Now I drew it, keeping my movements minimal, efficient--anything to avoid that monstrous wolf looking in my direction. The arrow was long and heavy enough to inflict damage--possibly kill him, if I aimed right. My chest became so tight it ached. And in that moment, I realized my life boiled down to one question: Was the wolf alone? I gripped my bow and drew the string farther back. I was a decent shot, but I'd never faced a wolf. I'd thought it made me lucky--even blessed. But now ... I didn't know where to hit or how fast they moved. I couldn't afford to miss. Not when I had only one ash arrow. And if it was indeed a faerie's heart pounding under that fur, then good riddance. Good riddance, after all their kind had done to us. I wouldn't risk this one later creeping into our village to slaughter and maim and torment. Let him die here and now. I'd be glad to end him. The wolf crept closer, and a twig snapped beneath one of his paws--each bigger than my hand. The doe went rigid. She glanced to either side, ears straining toward the gray sky. With the wolf's downwind position, she couldn't see or smell him. His head lowered, and his massive silver body--so perfectly blended into the snow and shadows--sank onto its haunches. The doe was still staring in the wrong direction. I glanced from the doe to the wolf and back again. At least he was alone--at least I'd been spared that much. But if the wolf scared the doe off, I was left with nothing but a starving, oversize wolf--possibly a faerie--looking for the next-best meal. And if he killed her, destroying precious amounts of hide and fat ... If I judged wrongly, my life wasn't the only one that would be lost. But my life had been reduced to nothing but risks these past eight years that I'd been hunting in the woods, and I'd picked correctly most of the time. Most of the time. The wolf shot from the brush in a flash of gray and white and black, his yellow fangs gleaming. He was even more gargantuan in the open, a marvel of muscle and speed and brute strength. The doe didn't stand a chance. I fired the ash arrow before he destroyed much else of her. The arrow found its mark in his side, and I could have sworn the ground itself shuddered. He barked in pain, releasing the doe's neck as his blood sprayed on the snow-- so ruby bright. He whirled toward me, those yellow eyes wide, hackles raised. His low growl reverberated in the empty pit of my stomach as I surged to my feet, snow churning around me, another arrow drawn. But the wolf merely looked at me, his maw stained with blood, my ash arrow protruding so vulgarly from his side. The snow began falling again. He looked, and with a sort of awareness and surprise that made me fire the second arrow. Just in case--just in case that intelligence was of the immortal, wicked sort. He didn't try to dodge the arrow as it went clean through his wide yellow eye. He collapsed to the ground. Color and darkness whirled, eddying in my vision, mixing with the snow. His legs were twitching as a low whine sliced through the wind. Impossible--he should be dead, not dying. The arrow was through his eye almost to the goose fletching. But wolf or faerie, it didn't matter. Not with that ash arrow buried in his side. He'd be dead soon enough. Still, my hands shook as I brushed off snow and edged closer, still keeping a good distance. Blood gushed from the wounds I'd given him, staining the snow crimson. He pawed at the ground, his breathing already slowing. Was he in much pain, or was his whimper just his attempt to shove death away? I wasn't sure I wanted to know. The snow swirled around us. I stared at him until that coat of charcoal and obsidian and ivory ceased rising and falling. Wolf--definitely just a wolf, despite his size. The tightness in my chest eased, and I loosed a sigh, my breath clouding in front of me. At least the ash arrow had proved itself to be lethal, regardless of who or what it took down. A rapid examination of the doe told me I could carry only one animal--and even that would be a struggle. But it was a shame to leave the wolf. Though it wasted precious minutes--minutes during which any predator could smell the fresh blood--I skinned him and cleaned my arrows as best I could. If anything, it warmed my hands. I wrapped the bloody side of his pelt around the doe's death-wound before I hoisted her across my shoulders. It was several miles back to our cottage, and I didn't need a trail of blood leading every animal with fangs and claws straight to me. Grunting against the weight, I grasped the legs of the deer and spared a final glance at the steaming carcass of the wolf. His remaining golden eye now stared at the snow-heavy sky, and for a moment, I wished I had it in me to feel remorse for the dead thing. But this was the forest, and it was winter. <|title|>Chapter 2 <|startofchapter|>The sun had set by the time I exited the forest, my knees shaking. My hands, stiff from clenching the legs of the deer, had gone utterly numb miles ago. Not even the carcass could ward off the deepening chill. The world was awash in hues of dark blue, interrupted only by shafts of buttery light escaping from the shuttered windows of our dilapidated cottage. It was like striding through a living painting--a fleeting moment of stillness, the blues swiftly shifting to solid darkness. As I trudged up the path, each step fueled only by near-dizzying hunger, my sisters' voices fluttered out to meet me. I didn't need to discern their words to know they most likely were chattering about some young man or the ribbons they'd spotted in the village when they should have been chopping wood, but I smiled a bit nonetheless. I kicked my boots against the stone door frame, knocking the snow from them. Bits of ice came free from the gray stones of the cottage, revealing the faded ward-markings etched around the threshold. My father had once convinced a passing charlatan to trade the engravings against faerie harm in exchange for one of his wood carvings. There was so little that my father was ever able to do for us that I hadn't possessed the heart to tell him the engravings were useless ... and undoubtedly fake. Mortals didn't possess magic-- didn't possess any of the superior strength and speed of the faeries or High Fae. The man, claiming some High Fae blood in his ancestry, had just carved the whorls and swirls and runes around the door and windows, muttered a few nonsense words, and ambled on his way. I yanked open the wooden door, the frozen iron handle biting my skin like an asp. Heat and light blinded me as I slipped inside. "Feyre!" Elain's soft gasp scraped past my ears, and I blinked back the brightness of the fire to find my second-eldest sister before me. Though she was bundled in a threadbare blanket, her gold-brown hair--the hair all three of us had--was coiled perfectly about her head. Eight years of poverty hadn't stripped from her the desire to look lovely. "Where did you get that?" The undercurrent of hunger honed her words into a sharpness that had become too common in recent weeks. No mention of the blood on me. I'd long since given up hope of them actually noticing whether I came back from the woods every evening. At least until they got hungry again. But then again, my mother hadn't made them swear anything when they stood beside her deathbed. I took a calming breath as I slung the doe off my shoulders. She hit the wooden table with a thud, rattling a ceramic cup on its other end. "Where do you think I got it?" My voice had turned hoarse, each word burning as it came out. My father and Nesta still silently warmed their hands by the hearth, my eldest sister ignoring him, as usual. I peeled the wolf pelt from the doe's body, and after removing my boots and setting them by the door, I turned to Elain. Her brown eyes--my father's eyes--remained pinned on the doe. "Will it take you long to clean it?" Me. Not her, not the others. I'd never once seen their hands sticky with blood and fur. I'd only learned to prepare and harvest my kills thanks to the instruction of others. Elain pushed her hand against her belly, probably as empty and aching as my own. It wasn't that Elain was cruel. She wasn't like Nesta, who had been born with a sneer on her face. Elain sometimes just ... didn't grasp things. It wasn't meanness that kept her from offering to help; it simply never occurred to her that she might be capable of getting her hands dirty. I'd never been able to decide whether she actually didn't understand that we were truly poor or if she just refused to accept it. It still hadn't stopped me from buying her seeds for the flower garden she tended in the milder months, whenever I could afford it. And it hadn't stopped her from buying me three small tins of paint--red, yellow, and blue--during that same summer I'd had enough to buy the ash arrow. It was the only gift she'd ever given me, and our house still bore the marks of it, even if the paint was now fading and chipped: little vines and flowers along the windows and thresholds and edges of things, tiny curls of flame on the stones bordering the hearth. Any spare minutes I'd had that bountiful summer I used to bedeck our house in color, sometimes hiding clever decorations inside drawers, behind the threadbare curtains, underneath the chairs and table. We hadn't had a summer that easy since. "Feyre." My father's deep rumble came from the fire. His dark beard was neatly trimmed, his face spotless--like my sisters'. "What luck you had today--in bringing us such a feast." From beside my father, Nesta snorted. Not surprising. Any bit of praise for anyone-- me, Elain, other villagers--usually resulted in her dismissal. And any word from our father usually resulted in her ridicule as well. I straightened, almost too tired to stand, but braced a hand on the table beside the doe as I shot Nesta a glare. Of us, Nesta had taken the loss of our fortune the hardest. She had quietly resented my father from the moment we'd fled our manor, even after that awful day one of the creditors had come to show just how displeased he was at the loss of his investment. But at least Nesta didn't fill our heads with useless talk of regaining our wealth, like my father. No, she just spent whatever money I didn't hide from her, and rarely bothered to acknowledge my father's limping presence at all. Some days, I couldn't tell which of us was the most wretched and bitter. "We can eat half the meat this week," I said, shifting my gaze to the doe. The deer took up the entirety of the rickety table that served as our dining area, workspace, and kitchen. "We can dry the other half," I went on, knowing that no matter how nicely I phrased it, I'd still do the bulk of it. "And I'll go to the market tomorrow to see how much I can get for the hides," I finished, more to myself than to them. No one bothered to confirm they'd heard me, anyway. My father's ruined leg was stretched out before him, as close to the fire's heat as it could get. The cold, or the rain, or a change in temperature always aggravated the vicious, twisted wounds around his knee. His simply carved cane was propped up against his chair --a cane he'd made for himself ... and that Nesta was sometimes prone to leaving far out of his reach. He could find work if he wasn't so ashamed, Nesta always said when I hissed about it. She hated him for the injury, too--for not fighting back when that creditor and his thugs had burst into the cottage and smashed his knee again and again. Nesta and Elain had fled into the bedroom, barricading the door. I had stayed, begging and weeping through every scream of my father, every crunch of bone. I'd soiled myself--and then vomited right on the stones before the hearth. Only then did the men leave. We never saw them again. We'd used a massive chunk of our remaining money to pay for the healer. It had taken my father six months to even walk, a year before he could go a mile. The coppers he brought in when someone pitied him enough to buy his wood carvings weren't enough to keep us fed. Five years ago, when the money was well and truly gone, when my father still couldn't--wouldn't--move much about, he hadn't argued when I announced that I was going hunting. He hadn't bothered to attempt to stand from his seat by the fire, hadn't bothered to look up from his wood carving. He just let me walk into those deadly, eerie woods that even the most seasoned hunters were wary of. He'd become a little more aware now--sometimes offered signs of gratitude, sometimes hobbled all the way into town to sell his carvings-- but not much. "I'd love a new cloak," Elain said at last with a sigh, at the same moment Nesta rose and declared: "I need a new pair of boots." I kept quiet, knowing better than to get in the middle of one of their arguments, but I glanced at Nesta's still-shiny pair by the door. Beside hers, my too-small boots were falling apart at the seams, held together only by fraying laces. "But I'm freezing with my raggedy old cloak," Elain pleaded. "I'll shiver to death." She fixed her wide eyes on me and said, "Please, Feyre." She drew out the two syllables of my name--fay-ruh--into the most hideous whine I'd ever endured, and Nesta loudly clicked her tongue before ordering her to shut up. I drowned them out as they began quarreling over who would get the money the hide would fetch tomorrow and found my father now standing at the table, one hand braced against it to support his weight as he inspected the deer. His attention slid to the giant wolf pelt. His fingers, still smooth and gentlemanly, turned over the pelt and traced a line through the bloody underside. I tensed. His dark eyes flicked to mine. "Feyre," he murmured, and his mouth became a tight line. "Where did you get this?" "The same place I got the deer," I replied with equal quiet, my words cool and sharp. His gaze traveled over the bow and quiver strapped to my back, the wooden-hilted hunting knife at my side. His eyes turned damp. "Feyre ... the risk ..." I jerked my chin at the pelt, unable to keep the snap from my voice as I said, "I had no other choice." What I really wanted to say was: You don't even bother to attempt to leave the house most days. Were it not for me, we would starve. Were it not for me, we'd be dead. "Feyre," he repeated, and closed his eyes. My sisters had gone quiet, and I looked up in time to see Nesta crinkle her nose with a sniff. She picked at my cloak. "You stink like a pig covered in its own filth. Can't you at least try to pretend that you're not an ignorant peasant?" I didn't let the sting and ache show. I'd been too young to learn more than the basics of manners and reading and writing when our family had fallen into misfortune, and she'd never let me forget it. She stepped back to run a finger over the braided coils of her gold-brown hair. "Take those disgusting clothes off." I took my time, swallowing the words I wanted to bark back at her. Older than me by three years, she somehow looked younger than I did, her golden cheeks always flushed with a delicate, vibrant pink. "Can you make a pot of hot water and add wood to the fire?" But even as I asked, I noticed the woodpile. There were only five logs left. "I thought you were going to chop wood today." Nesta picked at her long, neat nails. "I hate chopping wood. I always get splinters." She glanced up from beneath her dark lashes. Of all of us, Nesta looked the most like our mother--especially when she wanted something. "Besides, Feyre," she said with a pout, "you're so much better at it! It takes you half the time it takes me. Your hands are suited for it--they're already so rough." My jaw clenched. "Please," I asked, calming my breathing, knowing an argument was the last thing I needed or wanted. "Please get up at dawn to chop that wood." I unbuttoned the top of my tunic. "Or we'll be eating a cold breakfast." Her brows narrowed. "I will do no such thing!" But I was already walking toward the small second room where my sisters and I slept. Elain murmured a soft plea to Nesta, which earned her a hiss in response. I glanced over my shoulder at my father and pointed to the deer. "Get the knives ready," I said, not bothering to sound pleasant. "I'll be out soon." Without waiting for an answer, I shut the door behind me. The room was large enough for a rickety dresser and the enormous ironwood bed we slept in. The sole remnant of our former wealth, it had been ordered as a wedding gift from my father to my mother. It was the bed in which we'd been born, and the bed in which my mother died. In all the painting I'd done to our house these past few years, I'd never touched it. I slung off my outer clothes onto the sagging dresser--frowning at the violets and roses I'd painted around the knobs of Elain's drawer, the crackling flames I'd painted around Nesta's, and the night sky--whorls of yellow stars standing in for white--around mine. I'd done it to brighten the otherwise dark room. They'd never commented on it. I don't know why I'd ever expected them to. Groaning, it was all I could do to keep from collapsing onto the bed. We dined on roasted venison that night. Though I knew it was foolish, I didn't object when each of us had a small second helping until I declared the meat off-limits. I'd spend tomorrow preparing the deer's remaining parts for consumption, then I'd allot a few hours to currying up both hides before taking them to the market. I knew a few vendors who might be interested in such a purchase--though neither was likely to give me the fee I deserved. But money was money, and I didn't have the time or the funds to travel to the nearest large town to find a better offer. I sucked on the tines of my fork, savoring the remnants of fat coating the metal. My tongue slipped over the crooked prongs--the fork was part of a shabby set my father had salvaged from the servants' quarters while the creditors ransacked our manor home. None of our utensils matched, but it was better than using our fingers. My mother's dowry flatware had long since been sold. My mother. Imperious and cold with her children, joyous and dazzling among the peerage who frequented our former estate, doting on my father--the one person whom she truly loved and respected. But she also had truly loved parties--so much so that she didn't have time to do anything with me at all save contemplate how my budding abilities to sketch and paint might secure me a future husband. Had she lived long enough to see our wealth crumble, she would have been shattered by it--more so than my father. Perhaps it was a merciful thing that she died. If anything, it left more food for us. There was nothing left of her in the cottage beyond the ironwood bed--and the vow I'd made. Every time I looked toward a horizon or wondered if I should just walk and walk and never look back, I'd hear that promise I made eleven years ago as she wasted away on her deathbed. Stay together, and look after them. I'd agreed, too young to ask why she hadn't begged my elder sisters, or my father. But I'd sworn it to her, and then she'd died, and in our miserable human world--shielded only by the promise made by the High Fae five centuries ago--in our world where we'd forgotten the names of our gods, a promise was law; a promise was currency; a promise was your bond. There were times when I hated her for asking that vow of me. Perhaps, delirious with fever, she hadn't even known what she was demanding. Or maybe impending death had given her some clarity about the true nature of her children, her husband. I set down the fork and watched the flames of our meager fire dance along the remaining logs, stretching out my aching legs beneath the table. I turned to my sisters. As usual, Nesta was complaining about the villagers--they had no manners, they had no social graces, they had no idea just how shoddy the fabric of their clothes was, even though they pretended that it was as fine as silk or chiffon. Since we had lost our fortune, their former friends dutifully ignored them, so my sisters paraded about as though the young peasants of the town made up a second-rate social circle. I took a sip from my cup of hot water--we couldn't even afford tea these days--as Nesta continued her story to Elain. "Well, I said to him, 'If you think you can just ask me so nonchalantly, sir, I'm going to decline!' And you know what Tomas said?" Arms braced on the table and eyes wide, Elain shook her head. "Tomas Mandray?" I interrupted. "The woodcutter's second son?" Nesta's blue-gray eyes narrowed. "Yes," she said, and shifted to address Elain again. "What does he want?" I glanced at my father. No reaction--no hint of alarm or sign that he was even listening. Lost to whatever fog of memory had crept over him, he was smiling mildly at his beloved Elain, the only one of us who bothered to really speak to him at all. "He wants to marry her," Elain said dreamily. I blinked. Nesta cocked her head. I'd seen predators use that movement before. I sometimes wondered if her unrelenting steel would have helped us better survive--thrive, even--if she hadn't been so preoccupied with our lost status. "Is there a problem, Feyre?" She flung my name like an insult, and my jaw ached from clenching it so hard. My father shifted in his seat, blinking, and though I knew it was foolish to react to her taunts, I said, "You can't chop wood for us, but you want to marry a woodcutter's son?" Nesta squared her shoulders. "I thought all you wanted was for us to get out of the house--to marry off me and Elain so you can have enough time to paint your glorious masterpieces." She sneered at the pillar of foxglove I'd painted along the edge of the table --the colors too dark and too blue, with none of the white freckling inside the trumpets, but I'd made do, even if it had killed me not to have white paint, to make something so flawed and lasting. I drowned the urge to cover up the painting with my hand. Maybe tomorrow I'd just scrape it off the table altogether. "Believe me," I said to her, "the day you want to marry someone worthy, I'll march up to his house and hand you over. But you're not going to marry Tomas." Nesta's nostrils delicately flared. "There's nothing you can do. Clare Beddor told me this afternoon that Tomas is going to propose to me any day now. And then I'll never have to eat these scraps again." She added with a small smile, "At least I don't have to resort to rutting in the hay with Isaac Hale like an animal." My father let out an embarrassed cough, looking to his cot by the fire. He'd never said a word against Nesta, from either fear or guilt, and apparently he wasn't going to start now, even if this was the first he was hearing of Isaac. I laid my palms flat on the table as I stared her down. Elain removed her hand from where it lay nearby, as if the dirt and blood beneath my fingernails would somehow jump onto her porcelain skin. "Tomas's family is barely better off than ours," I said, trying to keep from growling. "You'd be just another mouth to feed. If he doesn't know this, then his parents must." But Tomas knew--we'd run into each other in the forest before. I'd seen the gleam of desperate hunger in his eyes when he spotted me sporting a brace of rabbits. I'd never killed another human, but that day, my hunting knife had felt like a weight at my side. I'd kept out of his way ever since. "We can't afford a dowry," I continued, and though my tone was firm, my voice quieted. "For either of you." If Nesta wanted to leave, then fine. Good. I'd be one step closer to attaining that glorious, peaceful future, to attaining a quiet house and enough food and time to paint. But we had nothing--absolutely nothing--to entice any suitor to take my sisters off my hands. "We're in love," Nesta declared, and Elain nodded her agreement. I almost laughed-- when had they gone from mooning over aristos to making doe-eyes at peasants? "Love won't feed a hungry belly," I countered, keeping my gaze as sturdy as possible. As if I'd struck her, Nesta leaped from her seat on the bench. "You're just jealous. I heard them saying how Isaac is going to marry some Greenfield village girl for a handsome dowry." So had I; Isaac had ranted about it the last time we'd met. "Jealous?" I said slowly, digging down deep to bury my fury. "We have nothing to offer them--no dowry; no livestock, even. While Tomas might want to marry you ... you're a burden." "What do you know?" Nesta breathed. "You're just a half-wild beast with the nerve to bark orders at all hours of the day and night. Keep it up, and someday--someday, Feyre, you'll have no one left to remember you, or to care that you ever existed." She stormed off, Elain darting after her, cooing her sympathy. They slammed the door to the bedroom hard enough to rattle the dishes. I'd heard the words before--and knew she only repeated them because I'd flinched that first time she spat them. They still burned anyway. I took a long sip from the chipped mug. The wooden bench beneath my father groaned as he shifted. I took another swallow and said, "You should talk some sense into her." He examined a burn mark on the table. "What can I say? If it's love--" "It can't be love, not on his part. Not with his wretched family. I've seen the way he acts around the village--there's one thing he wants from her, and it's not her hand in--" "We need hope as much as we need bread and meat," he interrupted, his eyes clear for a rare moment. "We need hope, or else we cannot endure. So let her keep this hope, Feyre. Let her imagine a better life. A better world." I stood from the table, fingers curling into fists, but there was nowhere to run in our two-room cottage. I looked at the discolored foxglove painting at the edge of the table. The outer trumpets were already chipped and faded, the lower bit of the stem rubbed off entirely. Within a few years, it would be gone--leaving no mark that it had ever been there. That I'd ever been there. When I looked at my father, my gaze was hard. "There is no such thing." <|title|>Chapter 3 <|startofchapter|>The trampled snow coating the road into our village was speckled with brown and black from passing carts and horses. Elain and Nesta clicked their tongues and grimaced as we made our way along it, dodging the particularly disgusting parts. I knew why they'd come --they'd taken one look at the hides I'd folded into my satchel and grabbed their cloaks. I didn't bother talking to them, as they hadn't deigned to speak to me after last night, though Nesta had awoken at dawn to chop wood. Probably because she knew I'd be selling the hides at the market today and would go home with money in my pocket. They trailed me down the lone road wending through the snow-covered fields, all the way into our ramshackle village. The stone houses of the village were ordinary and dull, made grimmer by the bleakness of winter. But it was market day, which meant the tiny square in the center of town would be full of whatever vendors had braved the brisk morning. From a block away, the scent of hot food wafted by--spices that tugged on the edge of my memory, beckoning. Elain let out a low moan behind me. Spices, salt, sugar--rare commodities for most of our village, impossible for us to afford. If I did well at the market, perhaps I'd have enough to buy us something delicious. I opened my mouth to suggest it, but we turned the corner and nearly stumbled into one another as we all halted. "May the Immortal Light shine upon thee, sisters," said the pale-robed young woman directly in our path. Nesta and Elain clicked their tongues; I stifled a groan. Perfect. Exactly what I needed, to have the Children of the Blessed in town on market day, distracting and riling everyone. The village elders usually allowed them to stay for only a few hours, but the sheer presence of the fanatic fools who still worshipped the High Fae made people edgy. Made me edgy. Long ago, the High Fae had been our overlords--not gods. And they certainly hadn't been kind. The young woman extended her moon-white hands in a gesture of greeting, a bracelet of silver bells--real silver--tinkling at her wrist. "Have you a moment to spare so that you might hear the Word of the Blessed?" "No," Nesta sneered, ignoring the girl's hands and nudging Elain into a walk. "We don't." The young woman's unbound dark hair gleamed in the morning light, and her clean, fresh face glowed as she smiled prettily. There were five other acolytes behind her, young men and women both, their hair long, uncut--all scanning the market beyond for young folk to pester. "It would take but a minute," the woman said, stepping into Nesta's path. It was impressive--truly impressive--to see Nesta go ramrod straight, to square her shoulders and look down her nose at the young acolyte, a queen without a throne. "Go spew your fanatic nonsense to some ninny. You'!! find no converts here." The girl shrank back, a shadow flickering in her brown eyes. I reined in my wince. Perhaps not the best way to deal with them, since they could become a true nuisance if agitated-- Nesta lifted a hand, pushing down the sleeve of her coat to show the iron bracelet there. The same one Elain wore; they'd bought matching adornments years ago. The acolyte gasped, eyes wide. "You see this?" Nesta hissed, taking a step forward. The acolyte retreated a step. "This is what you should be wearing. Not some silver bells to attract those faerie monsters." "How dare you wear that vile affront to our immortal friends--" "Go preach in another town," Nesta spat. Two plump and pretty farmers' wives strolled past on their way to the market, arm in arm. As they neared the acolytes, their faces twisted with identical expressions of disgust. "Faerie-loving whore," one of them hurled at the young woman. I couldn't disagree. The acolytes kept silent. The other villager--wealthy enough to have a full necklace of braided iron around her throat--narrowed her eyes, her upper lip curling back from her teeth. "Don't you idiots understand what those monsters did to us for all those centuries? What they still do for sport, when they can get away with it? You deserve the end you'll meet at faerie hands. Fools and whores, all of you." Nesta nodded her agreement to the women as they continued on their way. We turned back to the young woman still lingering before us, and even Elain frowned in distaste. But the young woman took a breath, her face again becoming serene, and said, "I lived in such ignorance, too, until I heard the Word of the Blessed. I grew up in a village so similar to this--so bleak and grim. But not one month ago, a friend of my cousin went to the border as our offering to Prythian--and she has not been sent back. Now she dwells in riches and comfort as a High Fae's bride, and so might you, if you were to take a moment to--" "She was likely eaten," Nesta said. "That's why she hasn't returned." Or worse, I thought, if a High Fae truly was involved in spiriting a human into Prythian. I'd never encountered the cruel, human-looking High Fae who ruled Prythian itself, or the faeries who occupied their lands, with their scales and wings and long, spindly arms that could drag you deep, deep beneath the surface of a forgotten pond. I didn't know which would be worse to face. The acolyte's face tightened. "Our benevolent masters would never harm us. Prythian is a land of peace and plenty. Should they bless you with their attention, you would be glad to live amongst them." Nesta rolled her eyes. Elain was shooting glances between us and the market ahead--to the villagers now watching, too. Time to go. Nesta opened her mouth again, but I stepped between them and ran an eye along the girl's pale blue robes, the silver jewelry on her, the utter cleanness of her skin. Not a mark or smudge to be found. "You're fighting an uphill battle," I said to her. "A worthy cause." The girl beamed beatifically. I gave Nesta a gentle push to get her walking and said to the acolyte, "No, it's not." I could feel the acolytes' attention still fixed on us as we strode into the busy market square, but I didn't look back. They'd be gone soon enough, off to preach in another town. We'd have to take the long way out of the village to avoid them. When we were far enough away, I glanced over a shoulder at my sisters. Elain's face remained set in a wince, but Nesta's eyes were stormy, her lips thin. I wondered if she'd stomp back to the girl and pick a fight. Not my problem--not right now. "I'll meet you here in an hour," I said, and didn't give them time to cling to me before slipping into the crowded square. It took me ten minutes to contemplate my three options. There were my usual buyers: the weathered cobbler and the sharp-eyed clothier who came to our market from a nearby town. And then the unknown: a mountain of a woman sitting on the lip of our broken square fountain, without any cart or stall, but looking like she was holding court nonetheless. The scars and weapons on her marked her easily enough. A mercenary. I could feel the eyes of the cobbler and clothier on me, sense their feigned disinterest as they took in the satchel I bore. Fine--it would be that sort of day, then. I approached the mercenary, whose thick, dark hair was shorn to her chin. Her tan face seemed hewn of granite, and her black eyes narrowed slightly at the sight of me. Such interesting eyes--not just one shade of black, but ... many, with hints of brown that glimmered amongst the shadows. I pushed against that useless part of my mind, the instincts that had me thinking about color and light and shape, and kept my shoulders back as she assessed me as a potential threat or employer. The weapons on her--gleaming and wicked--were enough to make me swallow. And stop a good two feet away. "I don't barter goods for my services," she said, her voice clipped with an accent I'd never heard before. "I only accept coin." A few passing villagers tried their best not to look too interested in our conversation, especially as I said, "Then you'll be out of luck in this sort of place." She was massive even sitting down. "What is your business with me, girl?" She could have been aged anywhere from twenty-five to thirty, but I supposed I looked like a girl to her in my layers, gangly from hunger. "I have a wolf pelt and a doe hide for sale. I thought you might be interested in purchasing them." "You steal them?" "No." I held her stare. "I hunted them myself. I swear it." She ran those dark eyes down me again. "How." Not a question--a command. Perhaps someone who had encountered others who did not see vows as sacred, words as bonds. And had punished them accordingly. So I told her how I'd brought them down, and when I finished, she flicked a hand toward my satchel. "Let me see." I pulled out both carefully folded hides. "You weren't lying about the wolf's size," she murmured. "Doesn't seem like a faerie, though." She examined them with an expert eye, running her hands over and under. She named her price. I blinked--but stifled the urge to blink a second time. She was overpaying--by a lot. She looked beyond me--past me. "I'm assuming those two girls watching from across the square are your sisters. You all have that brassy hair--and that hungry look about you." Indeed, they were still trying their best to eavesdrop without being spotted. "I don't need your pity." "No, but you need my money, and the other traders have been cheap all morning. Everyone's too distracted by those calf-eyed zealots bleating across the square." She jerked her chin toward the Children of the Blessed, still ringing their silver bells and jumping into the path of anyone who tried to walk by. The mercenary was smiling faintly when I turned back to her. "Up to you, girl." "Why?" She shrugged. "Someone once did the same for me and mine, at a time when we needed it most. Figure it's time to repay what's due." I watched her again, weighing. "My father has some wood carvings that I could give you as well--to make it more fair." "I travel light and have no need for them. These, however"--she patted the pelts in her hands--"save me the trouble of killing them myself." I nodded, my cheeks heating as she reached for the coin purse inside her heavy coat. It was full--and weighed down with at least silver, possibly gold, if the clinking was any indication. Mercenaries tended to be well paid in our territory. Our territory was too small and poor to maintain a standing army to monitor the wall with Prythian, and we villagers could rely only on the strength of the Treaty forged five hundred years ago. But the upper class could afford hired swords, like this woman, to guard their lands bordering the immortal realm. It was an illusion of comfort, just as the markings on our threshold were. We all knew, deep down, that there was nothing to be done against the faeries. We'd all been told it, regardless of class or rank, from the moment we were born, the warnings sung to us while we rocked in cradles, the rhymes chanted in schoolyards. One of the High Fae could turn your bones to dust from a hundred yards away. Not that my sisters or I had ever seen it. But we still tried to believe that something--anything--might work against them, if we ever were to encounter them. There were two stalls in the market catering to those fears, offering up charms and baubles and incantations and bits of iron. I couldn't afford them-- and if they did indeed work, they would buy us only a few minutes to prepare ourselves. Running was futile; so was fighting. But Nesta and Elain still wore their iron bracelets whenever they left the cottage. Even Isaac had an iron cuff around one wrist, always tucked under his sleeve. He'd once offered to buy me one, but I'd refused. It had felt too personal, too much like payment, too ... permanent a reminder of whatever we were and weren't to each other. The mercenary transferred the coins to my waiting palm, and I tucked them into my pocket, their weight as heavy as a millstone. There was no possible chance that my sisters hadn't spotted the money--no chance they weren't already wondering how they might persuade me to give them some. "Thank you," I said to the mercenary, trying and failing to keep the bite from my voice as I felt my sisters sweep closer, like vultures circling a carcass. The mercenary stroked the wolf pelt. "A word of advice, from one hunter to another." I lifted my brows. "Don't go far into the woods. I wouldn't even get close to where you were yesterday. A wolf this size would be the least of your problems. More and more, I've been hearing stories about those things slipping through the wall." A chill spider-walked down my spine. "Are they--are they going to attack?" If it were true, I'd find a way to get my family off our miserable, damp territory and head south-- head far from the invisible wall that bisected our world before they could cross it. Once--long ago and for millennia before that--we had been slaves to High Fae overlords. Once, we had built them glorious, sprawling civilizations from our blood and sweat, built them temples to their feral gods. Once, we had rebelled, across every land and territory. The War had been so bloody, so destructive, that it took six mortal queens crafting the Treaty for the slaughter to cease on both sides and for the wall to be constructed: the North of our world conceded to the High Fae and faeries, who took their magic with them; the South to we cowering mortals, forever forced to scratch out a living from the earth. "No one knows what the Fae are planning," the mercenary said, her face like stone. "We don't know if the High Lords' leash on their beasts is slipping, or if these are targeted attacks. I guarded for an old nobleman who claimed it had been getting worse these past fifty years. He got on a boat south two weeks ago and told me I should leave if I was smart. Before he sailed off, he admitted that he'd had word from one of his friends that in the dead of night, a pack of martax crossed the wall and tore half his village apart." "Martax?" I breathed. I knew there were different types of faeries, that they varied as much as any other species of animal, but I knew only a few by name. The mercenary's night-dark eyes flickered. "Body big as a bear's, head something like a lion's--and three rows of teeth sharper than a shark's. And mean--meaner than all three put together. They left the villagers in literal ribbons, the nobleman said." My stomach turned. Behind us, my sisters seemed so fragile--their pale skin so infinitely delicate and shredable. Against something like the martax, we'd never stand a chance. Those Children of the Blessed were fools--fanatic fools. "So we don't know what all these attacks mean," the mercenary went on, "other than more hires for me, and you keeping well away from the wall. Especially if the High Fae start turning up--or worse, one of the High Lords. They would make the martax seem like dogs." I studied her scarred hands, chapped from the cold. "Have you ever faced another type of faerie?" Her eyes shuttered. "You don't want to know, girl--not unless you want to be hurling up your breakfast." I was indeed feeling ill--ill and jumpy. "Was it deadlier than the martax?" I dared ask. The woman pulled back the sleeve of her heavy jacket, revealing a tanned, muscled forearm flecked with gruesome, twisted scars. The arc of them so similar to--"Didn't have the brute force or size of a martax," she said, "but its bite was full of poison. Two months--that's how long I was down; four months until I had the strength to walk again." She pulled up the leg of her trousers. Beautiful, I thought, even as the horror of it writhed in my gut. Against her tanned skin, the veins were black--solid black, spiderwebbed, and creeping like frost. "Healer said there was nothing to be done for it--that I'm lucky to be walking with the poison still in my legs. Maybe it'll kill me one day, maybe it'll cripple me. But at least I'll go knowing I killed it first." The blood in my own veins seemed to chill as she lowered the cuff of her pants. If anyone in the square had seen, no one dared speak about it--or to come closer. And I'd had enough for one day. So I took a step back, steadying myself against what she'd told me and shown me. "Thanks for the warnings," I said. Her attention flicked behind me, and she gave a faintly amused smile. "Good luck." Then a slender hand clamped onto my forearm, dragging me away. I knew it was Nesta before I even looked at her. "They're dangerous," Nesta hissed, her fingers digging into my arm as she continued to pull me from the mercenary. "Don't go near them again." I stared at her for a moment, then at Elain, whose face had gone pale and tight. "Is there something I need to know?" I asked quietly. I couldn't remember the last time Nesta had tried to warn me about anything; Elain was the only one she bothered to really look after. "They're brutes, and will take any copper they can get, even if it's by force." I glanced at the mercenary, who was still examining her new pelts. "She robbed you?" "Not her," Elain murmured. "Some other one who passed through. We had only a few coins, and he got mad, but--" "Why didn't you report him--or tell me?" "What could you have done?" Nesta sneered. "Challenged him to a fight with your bow and arrows? And who in this sewer of a town would even care if we reported anything?" "What about your Tomas Mandray?" I said coolly. Nesta's eyes flashed, but a movement behind me caught her eye, and she gave me what I supposed was her attempt at a sweet smile--probably as she remembered the money I now carried. "Your friend is waiting for you." I turned. Indeed, Isaac was watching from across the square, arms crossed as he leaned against a building. Though the eldest son of the only well-off farmer in our village, he was still lean from the winter, and his brown hair had turned shaggy. Relatively handsome, soft-spoken, and reserved, but with a sort of darkness running beneath it all that had drawn us to each other, that shared understanding of how wretched our lives were and would always be. We'd vaguely known each other for years--since my family had moved to the village --but I had never thought much about him until we'd wound up walking down the main road together one afternoon. We'd only talked about the eggs he was bringing to market-- and I'd admired the variation in colors within the basket he bore--browns and tans and the palest blues and greens. Simple, easy, perhaps a bit awkward, but he'd left me at my cottage feeling not quite so ... alone. A week later, I pulled him into that decrepit barn. He'd been my first and only lover in the two years since. Sometimes we'd meet every night for a week, others we'd go a month without setting eyes on each other. But every time was the same: a rush of shedding clothes and shared breaths and tongues and teeth. Occasionally we'd talk--or, rather, he'd talk about the pressures and burdens his father placed on him. Often, we wouldn't say a word the entire time. I couldn't say our lovemaking was particularly skilled, but it was still a release, a reprieve, a bit of selfishness. There was no love between us, and never had been--at least what I assumed people meant when they talked about love--yet part of me had sunk when he'd said he would soon be married. I wasn't yet desperate enough to ask him to see me after he was wed. Isaac inclined his head in a familiar gesture and then ambled off down the street--out of town and to the ancient barn, where he would be waiting. We were never inconspicuous about our dealings with each other, but we did take measures to keep it from being too obvious. Nesta clicked her tongue, crossing her arms. "I do hope you two are taking precautions." "It's a bit late to pretend to care," I said. But we were careful. Since I couldn't afford it, Isaac himself took the contraceptive brew. He knew I wouldn't have touched him otherwise. I reached into my pocket, drawing out a twenty-mark copper. Elain sucked in a breath, and I didn't bother to look at either of my sisters as I pushed it into her palm and said, "I'll see you at home." Later, after another dinner of venison, when we were all gathered around the fire for the quiet hour before bed, I watched my sisters whispering and laughing together. They'd spent every copper I'd given them--on what, I didn't know, though Elain had brought back a new chisel for our father's wood carving. The cloak and boots they'd whined about the night before had been too expensive. But I hadn't scolded them for it, not when Nesta went out a second time to chop more wood without my asking. Mercifully, they'd avoided another confrontation with the Children of the Blessed. My father was dozing in his chair, his cane laid across his gnarled knee. As good a time as any to broach the subject of Tomas Mandray with Nesta. I turned to her, opening my mouth. But there was a roar that half deafened me, and my sisters screamed as snow burst into the room and an enormous, growling shape appeared in the doorway. <|title|>Chapter 4 <|startofchapter|>I didn't know how the wooden hilt of my hunting knife had gotten into my hand. The first few moments were a blur of the snarling of a gigantic beast with golden fur, the shrieking of my sisters, the blistering cold cascading into the room, and my father's terror-stricken face. Not a martax, I realized--though the relief was short-lived. The beast had to be as large as a horse, and while his body was somewhat feline, his head was distinctly wolfish. I didn't know what to make of the curled, elk-like horns that protruded from his head. But lion or hound or elk, there was no doubting the damage his black, daggerlike claws and yellow fangs could inflict. Had I been alone in the woods, I might have let myself be swallowed by fear, might have fallen to my knees and wept for a clean, quick death. But I didn't have room for terror, wouldn't give it an inch of space, despite my heart's wild pounding in my ears. Somehow, I wound up in front of my sisters, even as the creature reared onto its hind legs and bellowed through a maw full of fangs: "MURDERERS!" But it was another word that echoed through me: Faerie. Those ridiculous wards on our threshold were as good as cobwebs against him. I should have asked the mercenary how she'd killed that faerie. But the beast's thick neck--that looked like a good home for my knife. I dared a glance over my shoulder. My sisters screamed, kneeling against the wall of the hearth, my father crouched in front of them. Another body for me to defend. Stupidly, I took another step toward the faerie, keeping the table between us, fighting the shaking in my hand. My bow and quiver were across the room--past the beast. I'd have to get around him to reach the ash arrow. And buy myself enough time to fire it. "MURDERERS!" the beast roared again, hackles raised. "P-please," my father babbled from behind me, failing to find it in himself to come to my side. "Whatever we have done, we did so unknowingly, and--" "W-w-we didn't kill anyone," Nesta added, choking on her sobs, arm lifted over her head, as if that tiny iron bracelet would do anything against the creature. I snatched another dinner knife off the table, the best I could do unless I found a way to get to the quiver. "Get out," I snapped at the creature, brandishing the knives before me. No iron in sight that I could use as a weapon--unless I chucked my sisters' bracelets at him. "Get out, and begone." With my trembling hands, I could barely keep my grip on the hilts. A nail--I'd take a damned iron nail, if it were available. He bellowed at me in response, and the entire cottage shook, the plates and cups rattling against one another. But it left his massive neck exposed. I hurled my hunting knife. Fast--so fast I could barely see it--he slashed out with a paw, sending it skittering away as he snapped for my face with his teeth. I leaped back, almost stumbling over my cowering father. The faerie could have killed me--could have, yet the lunge had been a warning. Nesta and Elain, weeping, prayed to whatever long-forgotten gods might still be skulking about. "WHO KILLED HIM?" The creature stalked toward us. He set a paw on the table, and it groaned beneath him. His claws thudded as they embedded in the wood, one by one. I dared another step forward as the beast stretched his snout over the table to sniff at us. His eyes were green and flecked with amber. Not animal eyes, not with their shape and coloring. My voice was surprisingly even as I challenged: "Killed who?" He growled, low and vicious. "The wolf," he said, and my heart stumbled a beat. The roar was gone, but the wrath lingered--perhaps even traced with sorrow. Elain's wail reached a high-pitched shriek. I kept my chin up. "A wolf?" "A large wolf with a gray coat," he snarled in response. Would he know if I lied? Faeries couldn't lie--all mortals knew that--but could they smell the lies on human tongues? We had no chance of escaping this through fighting, but there might be other ways. "If it was mistakenly killed," I said to the beast as calmly as I could, "what payment could we offer in exchange?" This was all a nightmare, and I'd awaken in a moment beside the fire, exhausted from my day at the market and my afternoon with Isaac. The beast let out a bark that could have been a bitter laugh. He pushed off the table to pace in a small circle before the shattered door. The cold was so intense that I shivered. "The payment you must offer is the one demanded by the Treaty between our realms." "For a wolf?" I retorted, and my father murmured my name in warning. I had vague memories of being read the Treaty during my childhood lessons, but could recall nothing about wolves. The beast whirled on me. "Who killed the wolf?" I stared into those jade eyes. "I did." He blinked and glanced at my sisters, then back at me, at my thinness--no doubt seeing only frailness instead. "Surely you lie to save them." "We didn't kill anything!" Elain wept. "Please ... please, spare us!" Nesta hushed her sharply through her own sobbing, but pushed Elain farther behind her. My chest caved in at the sight of it. My father climbed to his feet, grunting at the pain in his leg as he bobbled, but before he could limp toward me, I repeated: "I killed it." The beast, who had been sniffing at my sisters, studied me. I squared my shoulders. "I sold its hide at the market today. If I had known it was a faerie, I wouldn't have touched it." "Liar," he snarled. "You knew. You would have been more tempted to slaughter it had you known it was one of my kind." True, true, true. "Can you blame me?" "Did it attack you? Were you provoked?" I opened my mouth to say yes, but--"No," I said, letting out a snarl of my own. "But considering all that your kind has done to us, considering what your kind still likes to do to us, even if I had known beyond a doubt, it was deserved." Better to die with my chin held high than groveling like a cowering worm. Even if his answering growl was the definition of wrath and rage. The firelight shone upon his exposed fangs, and I wondered how they'd feel on my throat, and how loudly my sisters would scream before they, too, died. But I knew--with a sudden, uncoiling clarity--that Nesta would buy Elain time to run. Not my father, whom she resented with her entire steely heart. Not me, because Nesta had always known and hated that she and I were two sides of the same coin, and that I could fight my own battles. But Elain, the flower-grower, the gentle heart ... Nesta would go down swinging for her. It was that flash of understanding that had me angling my remaining knife at the beast. "What is the payment the Treaty requires?" His eyes didn't leave my face as he said, "A life for a life. Any unprovoked attacks on faerie-kind by humans are to be paid only by a human life in exchange." My sisters quieted their weeping. The mercenary in town had killed a faerie--but had attacked her first. "I didn't know," I said. "Didn't know about that part of the Treaty." Faeries couldn't lie--and he spoke plainly enough, no word-twisting. "Most of you mortals have chosen to forget that part of the Treaty," he said, "which makes punishing you far more enjoyable." My knees quaked. I couldn't escape this, couldn't outrun this. Couldn't even try to run, since he blocked the way to the door. "Do it outside," I whispered, my voice trembling. "Not ... here." Not where my family would have to wash away my blood and gore. If he even let them live. The faerie huffed a vicious laugh. "Willing to accept your fate so easily?" When I just stared at him, he said, "For having the nerve to request where I slaughter you, I'll let you in on a secret, human: Prythian must claim your life in some way, for the life you took from it. So as a representative of the immortal realm, I can either gut you like swine, or ... you can cross the wall and live out the remainder of your days in Prythian." I blinked. "What?" He said slowly, as if I were indeed as stupid as a swine, "You can either die tonight or offer your life to Prythian by living in it forever, forsaking the human realm." "Do it, Feyre," my father whispered from behind me. "Go." I didn't look at him as I said, "Live where? Every inch of Prythian is lethal to us." I'd be better off dying tonight than living in pure terror across the wall until I met my end in doubtlessly an even more awful way. "I have lands," the faerie said quietly--almost reluctantly. "I will grant you permission to live there." "Why bother?" Perhaps a fool's question, but-- "You murdered my friend," the beast snarled. "Murdered him, skinned his corpse, sold it at the market, and then said he deserved it, and yet you have the nerve to question my generosity?" How typically human, he seemed to silently add. "You didn't need to mention the loophole." I stepped so close the faerie's breath heated my face. Faeries couldn't lie, but they could omit information. The beast snarled again. "Foolish of me to forget that humans have such low opinions of us. Do you humans no longer understand mercy?" he said, his fangs inches from my throat. "Let me make this clear for you, girl: you can either come live at my home in Prythian--offer your life for the wolf's in that way--or you can walk outside right now and be shredded to ribbons. Your choice." My father's hobbling steps sounded before he gripped my shoulder. "Please, good sir-- Feyre is my youngest. I beseech you to spare her. She is all ... she is all ..." But whatever he meant to say died in his throat as the beast roared again. But hearing those few words he'd managed to get out, the effort he'd made ... it was like a blade to my belly. My father cringed as he said, "Please--" "Silence," the creature snapped, and rage boiled up in me so blistering it was an effort to keep from lunging to stab my dagger in his eye. But by the time I had so much as raised my arm, I knew he would have his maw around my neck. "I can get gold--" my father said, and my rage guttered. The only way he would get money was by begging. Even then, he'd be lucky to get a few coppers. I'd seen how pitiless the well-off were in our village. The monsters in our mortal realm were just as bad as those across the wall. The beast sneered. "How much is your daughter's life worth to you? Do you think it equates to a sum?" Nesta still had Elain held behind her, Elain's face so pale it matched the snow drifting in from the open door. But Nesta monitored every move the beast made, her brows lowered. She didn't bother to look at my father--as if she knew his answer already. When my father didn't reply, I dared another step toward the beast, drawing his attention to me. I had to get him out--get him away from my family. From the way he'd brushed away my knife, any hope of escaping lay in somehow sneaking up on him. With his hearing, I doubted I'd get a chance anytime soon, at least until he believed I was docile. If I tried to attack him or fled before then, he would destroy my family for the sheer enjoyment of it. Then he would find me again. I had no choice but to go. And then, later, I might find an opportunity to slit the beast's throat. Or at least disable him long enough to flee. As long as the faeries couldn't find me again, they couldn't hold me to the Treaty. Even if it made me a cursed oath-breaker. But in going with him, I would be breaking the most important promise I'd ever made. Surely it trumped an ancient treaty that I hadn't even signed. I loosened my grip on the hilt of my remaining dagger and stared into those green eyes for a long, silent while before I said, "When do we go?" Those lupine features remained fierce--vicious. Any lingering hope I had of fighting died as he moved to the door--no, to the quiver I'd left behind it. He pulled out the ash arrow, sniffed, and snarled at it. With two movements, he snapped it in half and chucked it into the fire behind my sisters before turning back to me. I could smell my doom on his breath as he said, "Now." Now. Even Elain lifted her head to gape at me in mute horror. But I couldn't look at her, couldn't look at Nesta--not when they were still crouched there, still silent. I turned to my father. His eyes glistened, so I glanced to the few cabinets we had, faded too-yellow daffodils curving over the handles. Now. The beast paced in the doorway. I didn't want to contemplate where I was going or what he would do with me. Running would be foolish until it was the right time. "The venison should hold you for two weeks," I said to my father as I gathered my clothes to bulk up against the cold. "Start on the fresh meat, then work your way through to the jerky--you know how to make it." "Feyre--" my father breathed, but I continued as I fastened my cloak. "I left the money from the pelts on the dresser," I said. "It will last you for a time, if you're careful." I finally looked at my father again and allowed myself to memorize the lines of his face. My eyes stung, but I blinked the moisture away as I stuffed my hands into my worn gloves. "When spring comes, hunt in the grove just south of the big bend in Silverspring Creek--the rabbits make their warrens there. Ask ... ask Isaac Hale to show you how to make snares. I taught him last year." My father nodded, covering his mouth with a hand. The beast growled his warning and prowled out into the night. I made to follow him but paused to look at my sisters, still crouched by the fire, as if they wouldn't dare to move until I was gone. Elain mouthed my name but kept cowering, kept her head down. So I turned to Nesta, whose face was so similar to my mother's, so cold and unrelenting. "Whatever you do," I said quietly, "don't marry Tomas Mandray. His father beats his wife, and none of his sons do anything to stop it." Nesta's eyes widened, but I added, "Bruises are harder to conceal than poverty." Nesta stiffened but said nothing--both of my sisters said absolutely nothing--as I turned toward the open door. But a hand wrapped around my arm, tugging me into a stop. Turning me around to face him, my father opened and closed his mouth. Outside, the beast, sensing I'd been detained, sent a snarl rumbling into the cottage. "Feyre," my father said. His fingers trembled as he grasped my gloved hands, but his eyes became clearer and bolder than I'd seen them in years. "You were always too good for here, Feyre. Too good for us, too good for everyone." He squeezed my hands. "If you ever escape, ever convince them that you've paid the debt, don't return." I hadn't expected a heart-wrenching good-bye, but I hadn't imagined this, either. "Don't ever come back," my father said, releasing my hands to shake me by the shoulders. "Feyre." He stumbled over my name, his throat bobbing. "You go somewhere new--and you make a name for yourself." Beyond, the beast was just a shadow. A life for a life--but what if the life offered as payment also meant losing three others? The thought alone was enough to steel me, anchor me. I'd never told my father of the promise I'd made my mother, and there was no use explaining it now. So I shrugged off his grip and left. I let the sounds of the snow crunching underfoot drive out my father's words as I followed the beast to the night-shrouded woods. <|title|>Chapter 5 <|startofchapter|>Every step toward the line of trees was too swift, too light, too soon carrying me to whatever torment and misery awaited. I didn't dare look back at the cottage. We entered the line of trees. Darkness beckoned beyond. But a white mare was patiently waiting--unbound--beside a tree, her coat like fresh snow in the moonlight. She only lowered her head--as if in respect, of all things--as the beast lumbered up to her. He motioned with a giant paw for me to mount. Still the horse remained calm, even as he passed close enough to gut her in one swipe. It had been years since I'd ridden, and I'd only ridden a pony at that, but I savored the warmth of the horse against my half-frozen body as I climbed into the saddle and she set into a walk. Without light to guide me, I let her trail the beast. They were nearly the same size. I wasn't surprised when we headed northward--toward faerie territory--though my stomach clenched so tightly it ached. Live with him. I could live out the rest of my mortal life on his lands. Perhaps this was merciful--but then, he hadn't specified in what manner, exactly, I would live. The Treaty forbade faeries from taking us as slaves, but--perhaps that excluded humans who'd murdered faeries. We'd likely go to whatever rift in the wall he'd used to get here, to steal me. And once we went through the invisible wall, once we were in Prythian, there was no way for my family to ever find me. I'd be little more than a lamb in a kingdom of wolves. Wolves-- wolf. Murdered a faerie. That was what I'd done. My throat went dry. I'd killed a faerie. I couldn't bring myself to feel badly about it. Not with my family left behind me to surely starve; not when it meant one less wicked, awful creature in the world. The beast had burned my ash arrow--so I'd have to rely on luck to get even a splinter of the wood again, if I was to stand a chance of killing him. Or slowing him down. Knowledge of that weakness, of their susceptibility to ash, was the only reason we'd ever survived against the High Fae during the ancient uprising, a secret betrayed by one of their own. My blood chilled further as I uselessly scanned for any signs of the narrow trunk and explosion of branches that I'd learned marked ash trees. I'd never seen the forest so still. Whatever was out there had to be tame compared to the beast beside me, despite the horse's ease around him. Hopefully he would keep other faeries away after we entered his realm. Prythian. The word was a death knell that echoed through me again and again. Lands--he'd said he had lands, but what kind of dwelling? My horse was beautiful and its saddle was crafted of rich leather, which meant he had some sort of contact with civilized life. I'd never heard the specifics of what the lives of faeries or High Fae were like--never heard much about anything other than their deadly abilities and appetites. I clenched the reins to keep my hands from shaking. There were few firsthand accounts of Prythian itself. The mortals who went over the wall--either willingly as tributes from the Children of the Blessed or stolen--never came back. I'd learned most of the legends from villagers, though my father had occasionally offered up a milder tale or two on the nights he made an attempt to remember we existed. As far as we knew, the High Fae still governed the northern parts of our world--from our enormous island over the narrow sea separating us from the massive continent, across depthless fjords and frozen wastelands and sandblasted deserts, all the way to the great ocean on the other side. Some faerie territories were empires; some were overseen by kings and queens. Then there were places like Prythian, divided and ruled by seven High Lords--beings of such unyielding power that legend claimed they could level buildings, break apart armies, and butcher you before you could blink. I didn't doubt it. No one had ever told me why humans chose to linger in our territory, when so little space had been granted to us and we remained in such close proximity to Prythian. Fools --whatever humans had stayed here after the War must have been suicidal fools to live so close. Even with the centuries-old Treaty between the mortal and faerie realms, there were rifts in the warded wall separating our lands, holes big enough for those lethal creatures to slip into our territory to amuse themselves with tormenting us. That was the side of Prythian that the Children of the Blessed never deigned to acknowledge--perhaps a side of Prythian I'd soon witness. My stomach turned. Live with him, I reminded myself, again and again and again. Live, not die. Though I supposed I could also live in a dungeon. He would likely lock me up and forget that I was there, forget that humans needed things like food and water and warmth. Prowling ahead of me, the beast's horns spiraled toward the night sky, and tendrils of hot breath curled from his snout. We had to make camp at some point; the border of Prythian was days away. Once we stopped, I would keep awake for the entirety of the night and never let him out of my sight. Even though he'd burned my ash arrow, I'd smuggled my remaining knife in my cloak. Maybe tonight would grant me an opportunity to use it. But it was not my own doom I contemplated as I let myself tumble into dread and rage and despair. As we rode on--the only sounds snow crunching beneath paws and hooves-- I alternated between a wretched smugness at the thought of my family starving and thus realizing how important I was, and a blinding agony at the thought of my father begging in the streets, his ruined leg giving out on him as he stumbled from person to person. Every time I looked at the beast, I could see my father limping through town, pleading for coppers to keep my sisters alive. Worse--what Nesta might resort to in order to keep Elain alive. She wouldn't mind my father's death. But she would lie and steal and sell anything for Elain's sake--and her own as well. I took in the way the beast moved, trying to find any--any--weakness. I could detect none. "What manner of faerie are you?" I asked, the words nearly swallowed up by the snow and trees and star-heavy sky. He didn't bother to turn around. He didn't bother to say anything at all. Fair enough. I'd killed his friend, after all. I tried again. "Do you have a name?" Or anything to curse him by. A huff of air that could have been a bitter laugh. "Does it even matter to you, human?" I didn't answer. He might very well change his mind about sparing me. But perhaps I would escape before he decided to gut me. I would grab my family and we'd stow away on a ship and sail far, far away. Perhaps I would try to kill him, regardless of the futility, regardless of whether it constituted another unprovoked attack, just for being the one who came to claim my life--my life, when these faeries valued ours so little. The mercenary had survived; maybe I could, too. Maybe. I opened my mouth to again ask him for his name, but a growl of annoyance rippled out of him. I didn't have a chance to struggle, to fight back, when a charged, metallic tang stung my nose. Exhaustion slammed down upon me and blackness swallowed me whole. I awoke with a jolt atop the horse, secured by invisible bonds. The sun was already high. Magic--that's what the tang had been, what was keeping my limbs tucked in tight, preventing me from going for my knife. I recognized the power deep in my bones, from some collective mortal memory and terror. How long had it kept me unconscious? How long had he kept me unconscious, rather than have to speak to me? Gritting my teeth, I might have demanded answers from him--might have shouted to where he still lumbered ahead, heedless of me. But then chirping birds flitted past me, and a mild breeze kissed my face. I spied a hedge-bordered metal gate ahead. My prison or my salvation--I couldn't decide which. Two days--it took two days from my cottage to reach the wall and enter the southernmost border of Prythian. Had I been held in an enchanted sleep for that long? Bastard. The gate swung open without porter or sentry, and the beast continued through. Whether I wanted to or not, my horse followed after him. <|title|>Chapter 6 <|startofchapter|>The estate sprawled across a rolling green land. I'd never seen anything like it; even our former manor couldn't compare. It was veiled in roses and ivy, with patios and balconies and staircases sprouting from its alabaster sides. The grounds were encased by woods, but stretched so far that I could barely see the distant line of the forest. So much color, so much sunlight and movement and texture ... I could hardly drink it in fast enough. To paint it would be useless, would never do it justice. My awe might have subdued my fear had the place not been so wholly empty and silent. Even the garden through which we walked, following a gravel path to the main doors of the house, seemed hushed and sleeping. Above the array of amethyst irises and pale snowdrops and butter-yellow daffodils swaying in the balmy breeze, the faint stench of metal ticked my nostrils. Of course it would be magic, because it was spring here. What wretched power did they possess to make their lands so different from ours, to control the seasons and weather as if they owned them? Sweat trickled down my spine as my layers of clothes turned suffocating. I rotated my wrists and shifted in the saddle. Whatever bonds had held me were gone. The faerie meandered on ahead, leaping nimbly up the grand marble staircase that led to the giant oak doors in one mighty, fluid movement. The doors swung open for him on silent hinges, and he prowled inside. He'd planned this entire arrival, no doubt--keeping me unconscious so I didn't know where I was, didn't know the way home or what other deadly faerie territories might be lurking between me and the wall. I felt for my knife, but found only layers of frayed clothes. The thought of those claws pawing through my cloak to find my knife made my mouth go dry. I shoved away the fury and terror and disgust as my horse came to a stop of her own accord at the foot of the stairs. The message was clear enough. The towering estate house seemed to be watching, waiting. I glanced over my shoulder toward the still-open gates. If I were to bolt, it would have to be now. South--all I had to do was go south, and I would eventually make it to the wall. If I didn't encounter anything before then. I tugged on the reins, but the mare remained stationary--even as I dug my heels into her sides. I let out a low, sharp hiss. Fine. On foot. My knees buckled as I hit the ground, bits of light flashing in my vision. I grasped the saddle and winced as soreness and hunger racked my senses. Now--I had to go now. I made to move, but the world was still spinning and flashing. Only a fool would run with no food, no strength. I wouldn't get half a mile like this. I wouldn't get half a mile before he caught me and tore me to ribbons, as he'd promised. I took a long, shuddering breath. Food--getting food, then running at the next opportune moment. It sounded like a solid plan. When I was steady enough to walk, I left the horse at the bottom of the stairs, taking the steps one at a time. My breath tight in my chest, I passed through the open doors and into the shadows of the house. Inside, it was even more opulent. Black-and-white checkered marble shone at my feet, flowing to countless doors and a sweeping staircase. A long hall stretched ahead to the giant glass doors at the other end of the house, and through them I glimpsed a second garden, grander than the one out front. No sign of a dungeon--no shouts or pleas rising up from hidden chambers below. No, just the low growl from a nearby room, so deep that it rattled the vases overflowing with fat clusters of hydrangea atop the scattered hall tables. As if in response, an open set of polished wooden doors swung wider to my left. A command to follow. My fingers shook as I rubbed my eyes. I'd known the High Fae had once built themselves palaces and temples around the world--buildings that my mortal ancestors had destroyed after the War out of spite--but I'd never considered how they might live today, the elegance and wealth they might possess. Never contemplated that the faeries, these feral monsters, might own estates grander than any mortal dwelling. I tensed as I entered the room. A long table--longer than any we'd ever possessed at our manor--filled most of the space. It was laden with food and wine--so much food, some of it wafting tendrils of steam, that my mouth watered. At least it was familiar, and not some strange faerie delicacy: chicken, bread, peas, fish, asparagus, lamb ... it could have been a feast at any mortal manor. Another surprise. The beast padded to the oversized chair at the head of the table. I lingered by the threshold, gazing at the food--all that hot, glorious food--that I couldn't eat. That was the first rule we were taught as children, usually in songs or chants: If misfortune forced you to keep company with a faerie, you never drank their wine, never ate their food. Ever. Unless you wanted to wind up enslaved to them in mind and soul-- unless you wanted to wind up dragged back to Prythian. Well, the second part had already happened, but I might stand a chance at avoiding the first. The beast plopped into the chair, the wood groaning, and, in a flash of white light, turned into a golden-haired man. I stifled a cry and pushed myself against the paneled wall beside the door, feeling for the molding of the threshold, trying to gauge the distance between me and escape. This beast was not a man, not a lesser faerie. He was one of the High Fae, one of their ruling nobility: beautiful, lethal, and merciless. He was young--or at least what I could see of his face seemed young. His nose, cheeks, and brows were covered by an exquisite golden mask embedded with emeralds shaped like whorls of leaves. Some absurd High Fae fashion, no doubt. It left only his eyes --looking the same as they had in his beast form, strong jaw, and mouth for me to see, and the latter tightened into a thin line. "You should eat something," he said. Unlike the elegance of his mask, the dark green tunic he wore was rather plain, accented only with a leather baldric across his broad chest. It was more for fighting than style, even though he bore no weapons I could detect. Not just one of the High Fae, but ... a warrior, too. I didn't want to consider what might require him to wear a warrior's attire and tried not to look too hard at the leather of the baldric gleaming in the sunlight streaming in through the bank of windows behind him. I hadn't seen a cloudless sky like that in months. He filled a glass of wine from an exquisitely cut crystal decanter and drank deeply. As if he needed it. I inched toward the door, my heart beating so fast I thought I'd vomit. The cool metal of the door's hinges bit into my fingers. If I moved fast, I could be out of the house and sprinting for the gate within seconds. He was undoubtedly faster--but chucking some of those pretty pieces of hallway furniture in his path might slow him down. Though his Fae ears--with their delicate, pointed arches--would pick up any whisper of movement from me. "Who are you?" I managed to say. His light golden hair was so similar to the color of his beast form's pelt. Those giant claws undoubtedly still lurked just below the surface of his skin. "Sit," he said gruffly, waving a broad hand to encompass the table. "Eat." I ran through the chants in my head, again and again. Not worth it--easing my ravenous hunger was definitely not worth the risk of being enslaved to him in mind and soul. He let out a low growl. "Unless you'd rather faint?" "It's not safe for humans," I managed to say, offense be damned. He huffed a laugh--more feral than anything. "The food is fine for you to eat, human." Those strange green eyes pinned me to the spot, as if he could detect every muscle in my body that was priming to bolt. "Leave, if you want," he added with a flash of teeth. "I'm not your jailer. The gates are open--you can live anywhere in Prythian." And no doubt be eaten or tormented by a wretched faerie. But while every inch of this place was civilized and clean and beautiful, I had to get out, had to get back. That promise to my mother, cold and vain as she was, was all I had. I made no move toward the food. "Fine," he said, the word laced with a growl, and began serving himself. I didn't have to face the consequences of refusing him another time, as someone strode past me, heading right for the head of the table. "Well?" the stranger said--another High Fae: red-haired and finely dressed in a tunic of muted silver. He, too, wore a mask. He sketched a bow to the seated male and then crossed his arms. Somehow, he hadn't spotted me where I was still pressed against the wall. "Well, what?" My captor cocked his head, the movement more animal than human. "Ts Andras dead, then?" A nod from my captor--savior, whatever he was. "I'm sorry," he said quietly. "How?" the stranger demanded, his knuckles white as he gripped his muscled arms. "An ash arrow," said the other. His red-haired companion hissed. "The Treaty's summons led me to the mortal. I gave her safe haven." "A girl--a mortal girl actually killed Andras." Not a question so much as a venom- coated string of words. He glanced at the end of the table, where my empty chair stood. "And the summons found the girl responsible." The golden-masked one gave a low, bitter laugh and pointed at me. "The Treaty's magic brought me right to her doorstep." The stranger whirled with fluid grace. His mask was bronze and fashioned after a fox's features, concealing all but the lower half of his face--along with most of what looked like a wicked, slashing scar from his brow down to his jaw. It didn't hide the eye that was missing--or the carved golden orb that had replaced it and moved as though he could use it. It fixed on me. Even from across the room, I could see his remaining russet eye widen. He sniffed once, his lips curling a bit to reveal straight white teeth, and then he turned to the other faerie. "You're joking," he said quietly. "That scrawny thing brought down Andras with a single ash arrow?" Bastard--an absolute bastard. A pity I didn't have the arrow now--so I could shoot him instead. "She admitted to it," the golden-haired one said tightly, tracing the rim of his goblet with a finger. A long, lethal claw slid out, scraping against the metal. I fought to keep my breathing steady. Especially as he added, "She didn't try to deny it." The fox-masked faerie sank onto the edge of the table, the light catching in his long fire-red hair. I could understand his mask, with that brutal scar and missing eye, but the other High Fae seemed fine. Perhaps he wore it out of solidarity. Maybe that explained the absurd fashion. "Well," the red-haired one seethed, "now we're stuck with that, thanks to your useless mercy, and you've ruined--" I stepped forward--only a step. I wasn't sure what I was going to say, but being spoken about that way ... I kept my mouth shut, but it was enough. "Did you enjoy killing my friend, human?" the red-haired one said. "Did you hesitate, or was the hatred in your heart riding you too hard to consider sparing him? It must have been so satisfying for a small mortal thing like you to take him down." The golden-haired one said nothing, but his jaw tightened. As they studied me, I reached for a knife that wasn't there. "Anyway," the fox-masked one continued, facing his companion again with a sneer. He would likely laugh if I ever drew a weapon on him. "Perhaps there's a way to--" "Lucien," my captor said quietly, the name echoing with a hint of a snarl. "Behave." Lucien went rigid, but he hopped off the edge of the table and bowed deeply to me. "My apologies, lady." Another joke at my expense. "I'm Lucien. Courtier and emissary." He gestured to me with a flourish. "Your eyes are like stars, and your hair like burnished gold." He cocked his head--waiting for me to give him my name. But telling him anything about me, about my family and where I came from-- "Her name is Feyre," said the one in charge--the beast. He must have learned my name at my cottage. Those striking green eyes met mine again and then flicked to the door. "Alis will take you to your room. You could use a bath and fresh clothes." I couldn't decide whether it was an insult or not. There was a firm hand at my elbow, and I flinched. A rotund brown-haired woman in a simple brass bird mask tugged on my arm and inclined her head toward the open door behind us. Her white apron was crisp above her homespun brown dress--a servant. The masks had to be some sort of trend, then. If they cared so much about their clothes, about what even their servants wore, maybe they were shallow and vain enough for me to deceive, despite their master's warrior clothes. Still, they were High Fae. I would have to be clever and quiet and bide my time until I could escape. So I let Alis lead me away. Room--not cell. A small relief, then. I'd barely made it a few steps before Lucien growled, "That's the hand the Cauldron thought to deal us? She brought Andras down? We never should have sent him out there-- none of them should have been out there. It was a fool's mission." His growl was more bitter than threatening. Could he shape-shift as well? "Maybe we should just take a stand --maybe it's time to say enough. Dump the girl somewhere, kill her, I don't care--she's nothing but a burden here. She'd sooner put a knife in your back than talk to you--or any of us." I kept my breathing calm, my spine locking, and-- "No," the other bit out. "Not until we know for certain that there is no other way will we make a move. And as for the girl, she stays. Unharmed. End of discussion. Her life in that hovel was Hell enough." My cheeks heated, even while I loosed a tight breath, and I avoided looking at Alis as I felt her eyes slide to me. A hovel--I suppose that's what our cottage was when compared to this place. "Then you've got your work cut out for you, old son," Lucien said. "I'm sure her life will be a fine replacement for Andras's--maybe she can even train with the others on the border." A snarl of irritation resonated through the air. The shining, spotless halls swallowed me up before I could hear more. Alis led me through halls of gold and silver until we came to a lavish bedroom on the second level. I'll admit I didn't fight that hard when Alis and two other servants--also masked--bathed me, cut my hair, and then plucked me until I felt like a chicken being prepared for dinner. For all I knew, I might very well be their next meal. It was only the High Fae's promise--to live out my days in Prythian instead of dying-- that kept me from being sick at the thought. While these faeries also looked human, save for their ears, I'd never learned what the High Fae called their servants. But I didn't dare to ask, or to speak to them at all, not when just having their hands on me, having them so close was enough to make me focus solely on not trembling. Still, I took one look at the velvet turquoise dress Alis had placed on the bed and wrapped my white dressing gown tightly around me, sinking into a chair and pleading for my old clothes to be returned. Alis refused, and when I begged again, trying my best to sound pathetic and sad and pitiful, she stormed out. I hadn't worn a dress in years. I wasn't about to start, not when escape was my main priority. I wouldn't be able to move freely in a gown. Bundled in my robe, I sat for minute after minute, the chattering of small birds in the garden beyond the windows the only sounds. No screaming, no clashing weapons, no hint of any slaughter or torture. The bedroom was larger than our entire cottage. Its walls were pale green, delicately sketched with patterns of gold, and the moldings were golden as well. I might have thought it tacky had the ivory furniture and rugs not complemented it so well. The gigantic bed was of a similar color scheme, and the curtains that hung from the towering headboard drifted in the faint breeze from the open windows. My dressing gown was of the finest silk, edged with lace--simple and exquisite enough that I ran a finger along the lapels. The few stories I'd heard had been wrong--or five hundred years of separation had muddled them. Yes, I was still prey, still born weak and useless compared to them, but this place was ... peaceful. Calm. Unless that was an illusion, too, and the loophole in the Treaty was a lie--a trick to set me at ease before they destroyed me. The High Fae liked to play with their food. The door creaked, and Alis returned--a bundle of clothing in her hands. She lifted a sodden grayish shirt. "You want to wear this?" I gaped at the holes in the sides and sleeves. "It fell apart the moment the laundresses put it in water." She held up a few scraps of brown. "Here's what's left of your pants." I clamped down on the curse building in my chest. She might be a servant, but she could easily kill me, too. "Will you wear the dress now?" she demanded. I knew I should get up, should agree, but I slumped farther into my seat. Alis stared me down for a moment before leaving again. She returned with trousers and a tunic that fit me well, both of them rich with color. A bit fancy, but I didn't complain when I donned the white shirt, nor when I buttoned the dark blue tunic and ran my hands over the scratchy, golden thread embroidered on the lapels. It had to cost a fortune in itself--and it tugged at that useless part of my mind that admired lovely and strange and colorful things. I was too young to remember much before my father's downfall. He'd tolerated me enough to allow me to loiter about his offices, and sometimes even explained various goods and their worth, the details of which I'd long since forgotten. My time in his offices --full of the scents of exotic spices and the music of foreign tongues--made up the majority of my few happy memories. I didn't need to know the worth of everything in this room to understand that the emerald curtains alone--silk, with gold velvet--could have fed us for a lifetime. A chill scuttled down my spine. It had been days since I'd left. The venison would be running low already. Alis herded me into a low-backed chair before the darkened fireplace, and I didn't fight back as she ran a comb through my hair and began braiding it. "You're hardly more than skin and bones," she said, her fingers luxurious against my scalp. "Winter does that to poor mortals," I said, fighting to keep the sharpness from my tone. She huffed a laugh. "If you're wise, you'll keep your mouth shut and your ears open. It'll do you more good here than a loose tongue. And keep your wits about you--even your senses will try to betray you here." I tried not to cringe at the warning. Alis went on. "Some folk are bound to be upset about Andras. Yet if you ask me, Andras was a good sentinel, but he knew what he would face when he crossed the wall--knew he'd likely find trouble. And the others understand the terms of the Treaty, too--even if they might resent your presence here, thanks to the mercy of our master. So keep your head down, and none of them will bother you. Though Lucien--he could do with someone snapping at him, if you've the courage for it." I didn't, and when I went to ask more about whom I should try to avoid, she had already finished with my hair and opened the door to the hall. <|title|>Chapter 7 <|startofchapter|>The golden-haired High Fae and Lucien were lounging at the table when Alis returned me to the dining room. They no longer had plates before them, but still sipped from golden goblets. Real gold--not paint or foil. Our mismatched cutlery flashed through my mind as I paused in the middle of the room. Such wealth--such staggering wealth, when we had nothing. A half-wild beast, Nesta had called me. But compared to him, compared to this place, compared to the elegant, easy way they held their goblets, the way the golden-haired one had called me human ... we were all half-wild beasts to the High Fae. Even if they were the ones who could don fur and claws. Food still remained on the table, the array of spices lingering in the air, beckoning. I was Starving, my head unnervingly light. The golden-haired High Fae's mask gleamed with the last rays of the afternoon sunshine. "Before you ask again: the food is safe for you to eat." He pointed to the chair at the other end of the table. No sign of his claws. When I didn't move, he sighed sharply. "What do you want, then?" I said nothing. To eat, flee, save my family ... Lucien drawled from his seat along the length of the table, "I told you so, Tamlin." He flicked a glance toward his friend. "Your skills with females have definitely become rusty in recent decades." Tamlin. He glowered at Lucien, shifting in his seat. I tried not to stiffen at the other bit of information Lucien had given away. Decades. Tamlin didn't look much older than me, but his kind was immortal. He could be hundreds of years old. Thousands. My mouth dried up as I carefully studied their strange, masked faces--unearthly, primal, and imperious. Like immovable gods or feral courtiers. "Well," Lucien said, his remaining russet eye fixed on me, "you don't look half as bad now. A relief, I suppose, since you're to live with us. Though the tunic isn't as pretty as a dress." Wolves ready to pounce--that's what they were, just like their friend. I was all too aware of my diction, of the very breath I took as I said, "I'd prefer not to wear that dress." "And why not?" Lucien crooned. It was Tamlin who answered for me. "Because killing us is easier in pants." I kept my face blank, willed my heart to calm as I said, "Now that I'm here, what ... what do you plan to do with me?" Lucien snorted, but Tamlin said with a snarl of annoyance, "Just sit down." An empty seat had been pulled out at the end of the table. So many foods, piping hot and wafting those enticing spices. The servants had probably brought out new food while I'd washed. So much wasted. I clenched my hands into fists. "We're not going to bite." Lucien's white teeth gleamed in a way that suggested otherwise. I avoided his gaze, avoided that strange, animated metal eye that focused on me as I inched to my seat and sat down. Tamlin rose, stalking around the table--closer and closer, each movement smooth and lethal, a predator blooded with power. It was an effort to keep still--especially as he picked up a dish, brought it over to me, and piled some meat and sauce on my plate. I said quietly, "I can serve myself." Anything, anything to keep him well away from me. Tamlin paused, so close that one swipe of those claws lurking under his skin could rip my throat out. That was why the leather baldric bore no weapons: why use them when you were a weapon yourself? "It's an honor for a human to be served by a High Fae," he said roughly. I swallowed hard. He continued piling various foods on my plate, stopping only when it was heaping with meat and sauce and bread, and then filled my glass with pale sparkling wine. I loosed a breath as he prowled back to his seat, though he could probably hear it. I wanted nothing more than to bury my face in the plate and then eat my way down the table, but I pinned my hands beneath my thighs and stared at the two faeries. They watched me, too closely to be casual. Tamlin straightened a bit and said, "You look ... better than before." Was that a compliment? I could have sworn Lucien gave Tamlin an encouraging nod. "And your hair is ... clean." Perhaps it was my raging hunger making me hallucinate the piss-poor attempt at flattery. Still, I leaned back and kept my words calm and quiet, the way I might speak to any other predator. "You're High Fae--faerie nobility?" Lucien coughed and looked to Tamlin. "You can take that question." "Yes," Tamlin said, frowning--as if searching for anything to say to me. He settled on merely: "We are." Fine. A man--faerie--of few words. I had killed his friend, was an unwanted guest. I wouldn't want to talk to me, either. "What do you plan to do with me now that I'm here?" Tamlin's eyes didn't leave my face. "Nothing. Do whatever you want." "So I'm not to be your slave?" I dared ask. Lucien choked on his wine. But Tamlin didn't smile. "I don't keep slaves." I ignored the release of tightness in my chest at that. "But what am I to do with my life here?" I pressed. "Do you--do you wish me to earn my keep? To work?" A stupid question, if he hadn't considered it, but ... but I had to know. Tamlin stiffened. "What you do with your life isn't my problem." Lucien pointedly cleared his throat, and Tamlin flashed him a glare. After an exchanged look I couldn't read, Tamlin sighed and said, "Don't you have any ... interests?" "No." Not entirely true, but I wasn't about to explain the painting to him. Not when he was apparently having a great deal of trouble just talking to me civilly. Lucien muttered, "So typically human." Tamlin's mouth quirked to the side. "Do whatever you want with your time. Just stay out of trouble." "So you truly mean for me to stay here forever." What I meant was: So I'm to stay in this luxury while my family starves to death? "I didn't make the rules," Tamlin said tersely. "My family is starving," I said. I didn't mind begging--not for this. I'd given my word, and held to that word for so long that I was nothing and no one without it. "Please let me go. There must be--must be some other loophole out of the Treaty's rules--some other way to atone." "Atone?" Lucien said. "Have you even apologized yet?" Apparently, all attempts to flatter me were dead and gone. So I looked Lucien right in his remaining russet eye and said, "I'm sorry." Lucien leaned back in his chair. "How did you kill him? Was it a bloody fight, or just cold-blooded murder?" My spine stiffened. "I shot him with an ash arrow. And then an ordinary arrow through the eye. He didn't put up a fight. After the first shot, he just stared at me." "Yet you killed him anyway--though he made no move to attack you. And then you skinned him," Lucien hissed. "Enough, Lucien," Tamlin said to his courtier with a snarl. "I don't want to hear details." He turned to me, ancient and brutal and unyielding. I spoke before he could say anything. "My family won't last a month without me." Lucien chuckled, and I gritted my teeth. "Do you know what it's like to be hungry?" I demanded, anger rising to devour any common sense. "Do you know what it's like to not know when your next meal will be?" Tamlin's jaw tightened. "Your family is alive and well-cared for. You think so low of faeries that you believe I'd take their only source of income and nourishment and not replace it?" I straightened. "You swear it?" Even if faeries couldn't lie, I had to hear it. A low, incredulous laugh. "On everything that I am and possess." "Why not tell me that when we left the cottage?" "Would you have believed me? Do you even believe me now?" Tamlin's claws embedded in the arms of his chair. "Why should I trust a word you say? You're all masters of spinning your truths to your own advantage." "Some would say it's unwise to insult a Fae in his home," Tamlin ground out. "Some would say you should be grateful for me finding you before another one of my kind came to claim the debt, for sparing your life and then offering you the chance to live in comfort." I shot to my feet, wisdom be damned, and was about to kick back my chair when invisible hands clapped on my arms and shoved me back into the seat. "Do not do whatever it was you were contemplating," Tamlin said. I went still as the tang of magic seared my nose. I tried to twist in the chair, testing the invisible bonds. But my arms were secured, and my back was pressed into the wood so hard that it ached. I glanced at the knife beside my plate. I should have gone for it first-- futile effort or no. "I'm going to warn you once," Tamlin said too softly. "Only once, and then it's on you, human. I don't care if you go live somewhere else in Prythian. But if you cross the wall, if you flee, your family will no longer be cared for." His words were like a stone to the head. If I escaped, if I even tried to run, I might very well doom my family. And even if I dared risk it ... even if I succeeded in reaching them, where would I take them? I couldn't stow my sisters away on a ship--and once we arrived somewhere else, somewhere safe, we'd have nowhere to live. But for him to hold my family's well-being against me, to throw away their survival if I stepped out of line ... I opened my mouth, but his snarl rattled the glasses. "Is that not a fair bargain? And if you flee, then you might not be so lucky with whoever comes to retrieve you next." His claws slipped back under his knuckles. "The food is not enchanted, or drugged, and it will be your own damn fault if you faint. So you're going to sit at this table and eat, Feyre. And Lucien will do his best to be polite." He threw a pointed look in his direction. Lucien shrugged. The invisible bonds loosened, and I winced as I whacked my hands on the underside of the table. The bonds on my legs and middle remained intact. One glance at Tamlin's smoldering green eyes told me what I wanted to know: his guest or not, I wasn't going to get up from this table until I'd eaten something. I'd think about the sudden change in my plans to escape later. Now ... for now I eyed the silver fork and carefully picked it up. They still watched me--watched my every move, the flare of my nostrils as I sniffed the food on my plate. No metallic stench of magic. And faeries couldn't lie. So he had to be right about the food, then. Stabbing a piece of chicken, I took a bite. It was an effort to keep from grunting. I hadn't had food this good in years. Even the meals we'd had before our downfall were little more than ashes compared to this. I ate my entire plate in silence, too aware of the High Fae observing every bite, but as I reached for a second helping of chocolate torte, the food vanished. Just--vanished, as if it had never existed, not a crumb left behind. Swallowing hard, I set my fork down so they wouldn't see my hand start to shake. "One more bite and you'll hurl your guts up," Tamlin said, drinking deeply from his goblet. The bonds holding me loosened. Silent permission to leave. "Thank you for the meal," I said. It was all I could think of. "Won't you stay for wine?" Lucien said with sweet venom from where he lounged in his seat. I braced my hands on my chair to rise. "I'm tired. I'd like to sleep." "It's been a few decades since I last saw one of you," Lucien drawled, "but you humans never change, so I don't think I'm wrong in asking why you find our company to be so unpleasant, when surely the men back home aren't much to look at." At the other end of the table, Tamlin gave his emissary a long, warning look. Lucien ignored it. "You're High Fae," I said tightly. "I'd ask why you'd even bother inviting me here at all--or dining with me." Fool--I really should have been killed ten times over already. Lucien said, "True. But indulge me: you're a human woman, and yet you'd rather eat hot coals than sit here longer than necessary. Ignoring this'--he waved a hand at the metal eye and brutal scar on his face--"surely we're not so miserable to look at." Typical faerie vanity and arrogance. That, at least, the legends had been right about. I tucked the knowledge away. "Unless you have someone back home. Unless there's a line of suitors out the door of your hovel that makes us seem like worms in comparison." There was enough dismissal there that I took a little bit of satisfaction in saying, "I was close with a man back in my village." Before that Treaty ripped me away--before it became clear that you are allowed to do as you please to us, but we can hardly strike back against you. Tamlin and Lucien exchanged glances, but it was Tamlin who said, "Are you in love with this man?" "No," I said as casually as I could. It wasn't a lie--but even if I'd felt anything like that for Isaac, my answer would have been the same. It was bad enough that High Fae now knew my family existed. I didn't need to add Isaac to that list. Again, that shared look between the two males. "And do you ... love anyone else?" Tamlin said through clenched teeth. A laugh burst out of me, tinged with hysteria. "No." I looked between them. Nonsense. These lethal, immortal beings really had nothing better to do than this? "Is this really what you care to know about me? If I find you more handsome than human men, and if I have a man back home? Why bother to ask at all, when I'll be stuck here for the rest of my life?" A hot line of anger sliced through my senses. "We wanted to learn more about you, since you'll be here for a good while," Tamlin said, his lips a thin line. "But Lucien's pride tends to get in the way of his manners." He sighed, as if ready to be done with me, and said, "Go rest. We're both busy most days, so if you need anything, ask the staff. They'll help you." "Why?" I asked. "Why be so generous?" Lucien gave me a look that suggested he had no idea, either, given that I'd murdered their companion, but Tamlin stared at me for a long moment. "I kill too often as it is," Tamlin said finally, shrugging his broad shoulders. "And you're insignificant enough to not ruffle this estate. Unless you decide to start killing us." A faint warmth bloomed in my cheeks, my neck. Insignificant--yes, I was insignificant to their lives, their power. As insignificant as the fading, chipped designs I'd painted around the cottage. "Well ...," I said, not quite feeling grateful at all, "thank you." He gave a distant nod and motioned for me to leave. Dismissed. Like the lowly human I was. Lucien propped his chin on a fist and gave me a lazy half smile. Enough. I got to my feet and backed toward the door. Putting my back to them would have been like walking away from a wolf, sparing my life or no. They said nothing when I slipped out the door. A moment later, Lucien's barking laugh echoed into the halls, followed by a sharp, vicious growl that shut him up. I slept fitfully that night, and the lock on my bedroom door felt more like a joke than anything. I was wide awake before dawn, but I remained staring at the filigreed ceiling, watching the growing light creep between the drapes, savoring the softness of the down mattress. I was usually out of the cottage by first light--though my sisters hissed at me every morning for waking them so early. If I were home, I'd already be entering the woods, not wasting a moment of precious sunlight, listening to the drowsy chatter of the few winter birds. Instead, this bedroom and the house beyond were silent, the enormous bed foreign and empty. A small part of me missed the warmth of my sisters' bodies overlapping with mine. Nesta must be stretching her legs and smiling at the extra room. She was probably content imagining me in the belly of a faerie--probably using the news as a chance to be fussed over by the villagers. Maybe my fate would prompt them to give my family some handouts. Or maybe Tamlin had given them enough money--or food, or whatever he thought "taking care" of them consisted of--to last through the winter. Or maybe the villagers would turn on my family, not wanting to be associated with people tied with Prythian, and run them out of town. I buried my face in the pillow, pulling the blankets higher. If Tamlin had indeed provided for them, if those benefits would cease the moment I crossed the wall, then they'd likely resent my return more than celebrate it. Your hair is ... clean. A pathetic compliment. I supposed that if he'd invited me to live here, to spare my life, he couldn't be completely ... wicked. Perhaps he'd just been trying to smooth over our very, very rough beginning. Maybe there would be some way to persuade him to find some loophole, to get whatever magic that bound the Treaty to spare me. And if not some way, then someone ... I was drifting from one thought to another, trying to sort through the jumble, when the lock on the door clicked, and-- There was a screech and a thud, and I bolted upright to find Alis in a heap on the floor. The length of rope I'd made from the curtain trimmings now hung loosely from where I'd rigged it to snap into anyone's face. It had been the best I could do with what I had. "I'm sorry, I'm sorry," I blurted, leaping from the bed, but Alis was already up, hissing at me as she brushed off her apron. She frowned at the rope dangling from the light fixture. "What in the bottomless depths of the Cauldron is--" "I didn't think anyone would be in here so early, and I meant to take it down, and--" Alis looked me over from head to toe. "You think a bit of rope snapping in my face will keep me from breaking your bones?" My blood went cold. "You think that will do anything against one of us?" I might have kept apologizing were it not for the sneer she gave me. I crossed my arms. "It was a warning bell to give me time to run. Not a trap." She seemed poised to spit on me, but then her sharp brown eyes narrowed. "You can't outrun us, either, girl." "I know," I said, my heart calming at last. "But at least I wouldn't face my death unaware." Alis barked out a laugh. "My master gave his word that you could live here--live, not die. We will obey." She studied the hanging bit of rope. "But did you have to wreck those lovely curtains?" I didn't want to--tried not to, but a hint of a smile tugged on my lips. Alis strode over to the remnants of the curtains and threw them open, revealing a sky that was still a deep periwinkle, splashed with hues of pumpkin and magenta from the rising dawn. "I am sorry," I said again. Alis clicked her tongue. "At least you're willing to put up a fight, girl. I'll give you that." I opened my mouth to speak, but another female servant with a bird mask entered, a breakfast tray in hand. She bid me a curt good morning, set the tray on a small table by the window, and disappeared into the attached bathing chamber. The sound of running water filled the room. I sat at the table and studied the porridge and eggs and bacon--bacon. Again, such similar food to what we ate across the wall. I don't know why I'd expected otherwise. Alis poured me a cup of what looked and smelled like tea: full-bodied, aromatic tea, no doubt imported at great expense. Prythian and my adjoining homeland weren't exactly easy to reach. "What is this place?" I asked her quietly. "Where is this place?" "It's safe, and that's all you need to know," Alis said, setting down the teapot. "At least the house is. If you go poking about the grounds, keep your wits about you." Fine--if she wouldn't answer that ... I tried again. "What sort of--faeries should I look out for?" "All of them," Alis said. "My master's protection only goes so far. They'll want to hunt and kill you just for being a human--regardless of what you did to Andras." Another useless answer. I dug into my breakfast, savoring each rich sip of tea, and she slipped into the bathing chamber. When I was done eating and bathing, I refused Alis's offer and dressed myself in another exquisite tunic--this one of purple so deep it could have been black. I wished I knew the name for the color, but cataloged it anyway. I pulled on the brown boots I'd worn the night before, and as I sat before a marble vanity letting Alis braid my wet hair, I cringed at my reflection. It wasn't pleasing--though not for its actual appearance. While my nose was relatively Straight, it was the other feature I'd inherited from my mother. I could still remember how her nose would crinkle with feigned amusement when one of her fabulously wealthy friends made some unfunny joke. At least I had my father's soft mouth, though it made a mockery of my too-sharp cheekbones and hollow cheeks. I couldn't bring myself to look at my slightly uptilted eyes. I knew I'd see Nesta or my mother looking back at me. I'd sometimes wondered if that was why my sister had insulted me about my looks. I was a far cry from ugly, but ... I bore too much of the people we'd hated and loved for Nesta to stand it. For me to stand it, too. Though I supposed that for Tamlin--for High Fae used to ethereal, flawless beauty--it had been a struggle to find a compliment. Faerie bastard. Alis finished my plait, and I jumped from the bench before she could weave in little flowers from the basket she'd brought. I would have lived up to my namesake were it not for the effects of poverty, but I'd never particularly cared. Beauty didn't mean anything in the forest. When I asked Alis what I was to do now--what I was to do with the entirety of my mortal life--she shrugged and suggested a walk in the gardens. I almost laughed, but I kept my tongue still. I'd be foolish to push aside potential allies. I doubted she had Tamlin's ear, and I couldn't press her about it yet, but ... At least a walk provided a chance to glean some sense of my surroundings--and whether there was anyone else who might plead my case to Tamlin. The halls were silent and empty--strange for such a large estate. They'd mentioned others the night before, but I saw and heard no sign of them. A balmy breeze scented with ... hyacinth, I realized--if only from Elain's small garden--floated down the halls, carrying with it the pleasant chirping of a bunting, a bird I wouldn't hear back home for months--if I ever heard them at all. I was almost to the grand staircase when I noticed the paintings. I hadn't let myself really look yesterday, but now, in the empty hall with no one to see me ... a flash of color amid a shadowy, gloomy background made me stop, a riot of color and texture that compelled me to face the gilded frame. I'd never--never--seen anything like it. It's just a still life, a part of me said. And it was: a green glass vase with an assortment of flowers drooping over its narrow top, blossoms and leaves of every shape and size and color--troses, tulips, morning glory, goldenrod, maiden's lace, peonies ... The skill it must have taken to make them look so lifelike, to make them more than lifelike ... Just a vase of flowers against a dark background--but more than that; the flowers seemed to be vibrant with their own light, as if in defiance of the shadows gathered around them. The mastery needed to make the glass vase hold that light, to bend the light with the water within, as if the vase did indeed have weight to it atop its stone pedestal ... Remarkable. I could have stared at it for hours--and the countless paintings along this hall alone could have occupied my entire day--but ... garden. Plans. Still, as I moved on, I couldn't deny that this place was far more ... civilized than I'd thought. Peaceful, even, if I was willing to admit it. And if the High Fae were indeed gentler than human legend and rumor had led me to believe, then maybe convincing Alis of my misery might not be too hard. If I could win over Alis, convince her that the Treaty had been wrong to demand such payment from me, she might indeed see if there was anything to get me out of this debt and-- "You," someone said, and I jumped back a step. In the light of the open glass doors to the garden, a towering male figure stood silhouetted before me. Tamlin. He wore those warrior's clothes, cut close to show off his toned body, and three simple knives were now sheathed along his baldric--each long enough to look like it could gut me as easily as his beast's claws. His blond hair had been tied back from his face, revealing those pointed ears and that strange, beautiful mask. "Where are you going?" he said, gruffly enough that it almost sounded like a demand. You--I wondered if he even remembered my name. It took a moment to will enough strength into my legs to rise from my half crouch. "Good morning," I said flatly. At least it was a better greeting than You. "You said my time was to be spent however I wanted. I didn't realize I was under house arrest." His jaw tightened. "Of course you're not under house arrest." Even as he bit out the words, I couldn't ignore the sheer male beauty of that strong jaw, the richness of his golden-tan skin. He was probably handsome--if he ever took off that mask. When he realized that I wasn't going to respond, he bared his teeth in what I supposed was an attempt at a smile and said, "Do you want a tour?" "No, thank you," I managed to get out, conscious of every awkward motion of my body as I edged around him. He stepped into my path--close enough that he conceded a step back. "I've been sitting inside all morning. I need some fresh air." And you're insignificant enough that you wouldn't be a bother. "I'm fine," I said, casually dodging him. "You've ... been generous enough." I tried to sound like I meant it. A half smile, not so pleasant, no doubt unused to being denied. "Do you have some sort of problem with me?" "No," I said quietly, and walked through the doors. He let out a low snarl. "I'm not going to kill you, Feyre. I don't break my promises." I almost stumbled down the garden steps as I glanced over my shoulder. He stood atop the stairs, as solid and ancient as the pale stones of the manor. "Kill--but not harm? Is that another loophole? One that Lucien might use against me--or anyone else here?" "They're under orders not to even touch you." "Yet I'm still trapped in your realm, for breaking a rule I didn't know existed. Why was your friend even in the woods that day? I thought the Treaty banned your kind from entering our lands." He just stared at me. Perhaps I'd gone too far, questioned him too much. Perhaps he could tell why I'd really asked. "That Treaty," he said quietly, "doesn't ban us from doing anything, except for enslaving you. The wall is an inconvenience. If we cared to, we could shatter it and march through to kill you all." I might be forced to live in Prythian forever, but my family ... I dared ask, "And do you care to destroy the wall?" He looked me up and down, as if deciding whether I was worth the effort of explaining. "I have no interest in the mortal lands, though I can't speak for my kind." But he still hadn't answered my question. "Then what was your friend doing there?" Tamlin stilled. Such unearthly, primal grace, even to his breathing. "There is ... a sickness in these lands. Across Prythian. There has been for almost fifty years now. It is why this house and these lands are so empty: most have left. The blight spreads slowly, but it has made magic act ... strangely. My own powers are diminished due to it. These masks"--he tapped on his--'"are the result of a surge of it that occurred during a masquerade forty-nine years ago. Even now, we can't remove them." Stuck in masks--for nearly fifty years. I would have gone mad, would have peeled my skin off my face. "You didn't have a mask as a beast--and neither did your friend." "The blight is cruel like that." Either live as a beast, or live with the mask. "What--what sort of sickness is it?" "It's not a disease--not a plague or illness. It's focused solely on magic, on those dwelling in Prythian. Andras was across the wall that day because I sent him to search for a cure." "Can it hurt humans?" My stomach twisted. "Will it spread over the wall?" "Yes," he said. "There is ... a chance of it affecting mortals, and your territory. More than that, I don't know. It's slow-moving, and your kind is safe for now. We haven't had any progression in decades--magic seems to have stabilized, even though it's been weakened." That he'd even admitted so much spoke volumes about how he imagined my future: I was never going home, never going to encounter another human to whom I might spill this secret vulnerability. "A mercenary told me she believed faeries might be thinking of attacking. Is it related?" A hint of a smile, perhaps a bit surprised. "I don't know. Do you talk to mercenaries often?" "I talk to whoever bothers to tell me anything useful." He straightened, and it was only his promise not to kill me that kept me from cringing. Then he rolled his shoulders, as if shaking off his annoyance. "Was the trip wire you rigged in your room for me?" I sucked on my teeth. "Can you blame me if it was?" "I might take an animal form, but I am civilized, Feyre." So he did remember my name, at least. But I looked pointedly at his hands, at the razor- sharp tips of those long, curved claws poking through his tanned skin. Noticing my stare, he tucked his hands behind his back. He said sharply, "I'll see you at dinner." It wasn't a request, but I still gave him a nod as I strode off between the hedges, not caring where I was going--only that he stayed far behind. A sickness in their lands, affecting their magic, draining it from them ... A magical blight that might one day spread to the human world. After so many centuries without magic, we'd be defenseless against it--against whatever it could do to humans. I wondered if any of the High Fae would bother warning my kind. It didn't take me long to know the answer. <|title|>Chapter 8 <|startofchapter|>I pretended to meander through the exquisite and silent gardens, mentally marking the paths and clever places for hiding if I ever needed them. He'd taken my weapons, and I wasn't stupid enough to hope for an ash tree somewhere on the property with which to make my own. But his baldric had been laden with knives; there had to be an armory somewhere on the estate. And if not, I would find another weapon, then--steal it if I had to. Just in case. Upon inspection the night before, I'd learned that there was no lock on my window. Sneaking out and rappelling down the wisteria vines wouldn't be difficult at all--I'd climbed enough trees to not mind the height. Not that I planned to escape, but ... it was good to know, at least, how I might do so should I ever be desperate enough to risk it. I didn't doubt Tamlin's claim that the rest of Prythian was deadly for a human--and if there was indeed some blight on these lands ... I was better off here for the time being. But not without trying to find someone who might plead my case to Tamlin. Though Lucien--he could do with someone snapping at him, if you've the courage for it, Alis had said to me yesterday. I chewed on my stubby nails as I walked, considering every possible plan and pitfall. I'd never been particularly good with words, had never learned the social warfare my sisters and mother had been so adept at, but ... I'd been decent enough when selling hides at the village market. So perhaps I'd seek out Tamlin's emissary, even if he detested me. He clearly had little interest in my living here--he'd suggested killing me. Perhaps he'd be eager to send me back, to persuade Tamlin to find some other way to fulfill the Treaty. If there even was one. I approached a bench in an alcove blooming with foxglove when the sound of steps on shifting gravel filled the air. Two pairs of light, quick feet. I straightened, peering down the way I'd come, but the path was empty. I lingered at the edge of an open field of lanky meadow buttercups. The vibrant green- and-yellow field was deserted. Behind me arose a gnarled crab apple tree in full, glorious bloom, the petals of its flowers littering the shaded bench on which I'd been about to sit. A breeze set the branches rustling, a waterfall of white petals flittering down like snow. I scanned the garden, the field--carefully, carefully watching and listening for those two sets of feet. There was nothing in the tree, or behind it. A prickling sensation ran down my spine. I'd spent enough time in the woods to trust my instincts. Someone stood behind me--perhaps two of them. A faint sniff and a quiet giggle issued from far too close. My heart leaped into my throat. I cast a subtle glance over my shoulder. But only a shining silvery light flickered in the corner of my vision. I had to turn around. I had to face it. The gravel crunched, nearer now. The shimmering in the corner of my eye grew larger, separating into two small figures no taller than my waist. My hands clenched into fists. "Feyre!" Alis's voice cut across the garden. I jumped out of my skin as she called me again. "Feyre, lunch!" she hollered. I whirled, a shout forming on my lips to alert her to whatever stood behind me, raising my fists, however futile it would be. But the shining things had vanished, along with their sniffing and giggling, and I found myself facing a weathered statue of two merry, bounding lambs. I rubbed my neck. Alis called me again, and I took a shuddering breath as I returned to the manor. But even as I strode through the hedges, carefully retracing my steps back to the house, I couldn't erase the creeping feeling that someone still watched me, curious and wanting to play. I stole a knife from dinner that night. Just to have something--anything--to defend myself with. It turned out that dinner was the only meal I was invited to attend, which was fine. Three meals a day with Tamlin and Lucien would have been torturous. I could endure an hour of sitting at their fancy table if it made them think I was docile and had no plans to change my fate. While Lucien ranted to Tamlin about some malfunction of the magical, carved eye that indeed allowed him to see, I slipped my knife down the sleeve of my tunic. My heart beat so fast I thought they could hear it, but Lucien continued speaking, and Tamlin's focus remained on his courtier. I supposed I should have pitied them for the masks they were forced to wear, for the blight that had infected their magic and people. But the less I interacted with them the better, especially when Lucien seemed to find everything I said to be hilariously human and uneducated. Snapping at him wouldn't help my plans. It would be an uphill battle to win his favor, if only for the fact that I was alive and his friend was not. I'd have to deal with him alone, or risk raising Tamlin's suspicions too soon. Lucien's red hair shone in the firelight, the colors flickering with every movement he made, and the jewels in the hilt of his sword glinted--the omate blade so unlike the baldric of knives still strapped across Tamlin's chest. But there was no one here to use a sword against. And while the sword was embedded with jewels and filigree, it was large enough to be more than decoration. Perhaps it had something to do with those invisible things in the garden. Maybe he'd lost his eye and eared that scar in battle. I fought against a shudder. Alis had said the house was safe, but warned me to keep my wits about me. What might lurk beyond the house--or be able to use my human senses against me? Just how far would Tamlin's order not to harm me stretch? What kind of authority did he hold? Lucien paused, and I found him smirking at me, making the scar even more brutal. "Were you admiring my sword, or just contemplating killing me, Feyre?" "Of course not," I said softly, and glanced at Tamlin. The gold flecks in his eyes glowed, even from the other end of the table. My heart beat at a gallop. Had he somehow heard me take the knife, the whisper of metal on wood? I forced myself to look again at Lucien. His lazy, vicious grin was still there. Act civilized, behave, possibly win him to my side .. I could do that. Tamlin broke the silence. "Feyre likes to hunt." "I don't like to hunt." I should have probably used a more polite tone, but I went on. "I hunted out of necessity. And how did you know that?" Tamlin's stare was bald, assessing. "Why else were you in the woods that day? You had a bow and arrows in your ... house." I wondered whether he'd almost said hovel. "When I saw your father's hands, I knew he wasn't the one using them." He gestured to my scarred, callused hands. "You told him about the rations and money from pelts. Faeries might be many things, but we're not stupid. Unless your ridiculous legends claim that about us, too." Ridiculous, insignificant. I stared at the crumbs of bread and swirls of remaining sauce on my golden plate. Had I been at home, I would have licked my plate clean, desperate for any extra bit of nourishment. And the plates ... I could have bought a team of horses, a plow, and a field for just one of them. Disgusting. Lucien cleared his throat. "How old are you, anyway?" "Nineteen." Pleasant, civilized ... Lucien tsked. "So young, and so grave. And a skilled killer already." I tightened my hands into fists, the metal of the knife now warm against my skin. Docile, unthreatening, tame ... I'?d made my mother a promise, and I'd keep it. Tamlin's looking after my family wasn't the same as my looking after them. That wild, small dream could still come to pass: my sisters comfortably married off, and a lifetime with my father, with enough food for us both and enough time to maybe paint a littke--or to maybe learn what I wanted. It could still happen--in a faraway land, perhaps--if I ever got out of this bargain. I could still cling to that scrap of a dream, though these High Fae would likely laugh at how typically human it was to think so small, to want so little. Yet any bit of information might help, and if I showed interest in them, perhaps they would warm to me. What was this but another trap in the woods? So I said, "So is this what you do with your lives? Spare humans from the Treaty and have fine meals?" I gave a pointed glance toward Tamlin's baldric, the warrior's clothes, Lucien's sword. Lucien smirked. "We also dance with the spirits under the full moon and snatch human babes from their cradles to replace them with changelings--" "Didn't ...," Tamlin interrupted, his deep voice surprisingly gentle, "didn't your mother tell you anything about us?" I prodded the table with my forefinger, digging my short nails into the wood. "My mother didn't have the time to tell me stories." I could reveal that part of my past, at least. Lucien, for once, didn't laugh. After a rather stilted pause, Tamlin asked, "How did she die?" When I lifted my brows, he added a bit more softly, "I didn't see signs of an older woman in your house." Predator or not, I didn't need his pity. But I said, "Typhus. When I was eight." I rose from my seat to leave. "Feyre," Tamlin said, and I half turned. A muscle feathered in his cheek. Lucien glanced between us, that metal eye roving, but kept silent. Then Tamlin shook his head, the movement more animal than anything, and murmured, "I'm sorry for your loss." I tried to keep from grimacing as I turned on my heel and left. I didn't want or need his condolences--not for my mother, not when I hadn't missed her in years. Let Tamlin dismiss me as a rude, uncouth human not worth his careful watch. I'd be better off persuading Lucien to speak to Tamlin on my behalf--and soon, before any of the others whom they'd mentioned appeared, or this blight of theirs grew. Tomorrow--I'd speak to Lucien then, test him out a bit. In my room, I found a small satchel in the armoire and filled it with a spare set of clothes, along with my stolen knife. It was a pitiful blade, but a piece of cutlery was better than nothing. Just in case I was ever allowed to go--and had to leave at a moment's notice. Just in case. <|title|>Chapter 9 <|startofchapter|>The following morning, as Alis and the other servant woman prepared my bath, I contemplated my plan. Tamlin had mentioned that he and Lucien had various duties, and aside from running into him in the house yesterday, I'd seen neither of them around. So, locating Lucien--alone--would be the first order of business. A casual question tossed in Alis's direction had her revealing that she believed Lucien was on border patrol today--and would be at the stables, preparing to leave. I was halfway through the gardens, hurrying toward the outcropping of buildings I'd spied the day before, when Tamlin said from behind me, "No trip wires today?" I froze midstep and looked over my shoulder. He was standing a few feet away. How had he crept up so silently on the gravel? Faerie stealth, no doubt. I willed calm into my veins, my head. I said as politely as I could, "You said I was safe here. So I listened." His eyes narrowed slightly, but he put on what I supposed was his attempt at a pleasant smile. "My morning work was postponed," he said. Indeed, his usual tunic was off, the baldric gone, and the sleeves of his white shirt had been rolled up to the elbows to reveal tanned forearms corded with muscle. "If you want a ride across the grounds--if you're interested in your new ... residence, I can take you." Again, that effort to be accommodating, even when every word seemed to pain him. Maybe he could eventually be swayed by Lucien. And until then ... how much could I get away with, if he was going to such lengths to make his people swear not to harm me, to shield me from the Treaty? I smiled blandly and said, "I'd prefer to spend today alone, I think. But thank you for the offer." He tensed. "What about--" "No, thank you," I interrupted, marveling a bit at my own audacity. But I had to catch Lucien alone, had to feel him out. He might already be gone. Tamlin clenched his hands into fists, as if fighting against the claws itching to burst out. But he didn't reprimand me, didn't do anything other than prowl back into the house without another word. Soon enough, if I was lucky, Tamlin wouldn't be my problem anymore. I hurried for the stables, tucking away the information. Maybe one day, if I was ever released, if there was an ocean and years between us, I would think back and wonder why he'd bothered. I tried not to look too eager, too out of breath when I finally reached the pretty, painted stables. It didn't surprise me that the stableboys all wore horse masks. For them I felt a shred of pity at what the blight had done, the ridiculous masks they now had to wear until someone could figure out how to undo the magic binding them to their faces. But none of the stable hands even looked at me--either because I wasn't worth it or because they, too, resented me for the death of Andras. I didn't blame them. Any attempt at casualness took a stumble when I finally found Lucien astride a black gelding, grinning down at me with too-white teeth. "Morning, Feyre." I tried to hide the stiffening in my shoulders, tried to smile a bit. "Going for a ride, or merely reconsidering Tam's offer to live with us?" I tried to recall the words I'd come up with earlier, the words to win him, but he laughed--and not pleasantly. "Come now. I'm to patrol the southern woods today, and I'm curious about the ... abilities you used to bring down my friend, whether accidental or not. It's been a while since I encountered a human, let alone a Fae-killer. Indulge me in a hunt." Perfect--at least that part of this had gone well, even if it sounded as lovely as facing a bear in its den. So I stepped aside to let a stableboy pass. He moved with a fluid smoothness, like all of them here. And didn't look at me, either--no indication at all of what he thought of having a Fae-killer in his stable. But my kind of hunting couldn't be done on horseback. Mine consisted of careful stalking and well-laid traps and snares. I didn't know how to give chase atop a horse. Lucien accepted a quiver of arrows from the returning stableboy with a nod of thanks. Lucien smiled in a way that didn't meet that metal eye--or the russet one. "No ash arrows today, unfortunately." I clenched my jaw to keep a retort from slipping off my tongue. If he was forbidden from hurting me, I couldn't fathom why he would invite me along, save to mock me in whatever way he could. Perhaps he was truly that bored. Better for me. So I shrugged, looking as bored as I could. "Well ... I suppose I'm already dressed for a hunt." "Perfect," Lucien said, his metal eye gleaming in the sunlight slanting in through the open stable doors. I prayed Tamlin wouldn't come prowling through them--prayed he wouldn't decide to go for a ride on his own and catch us here. "Let's go, then," I said, and Lucien motioned for them to prepare a horse. I leaned against a wooden wall as I waited, keeping an eye on the doorway for signs of Tamlin, and offered my own bland replies to Lucien's remarks about the weather. Mercifully, I was soon astride a white mare, riding with Lucien through the spring- shrouded woods beyond the gardens. I kept a healthy distance from the fox-masked faerie on the broad path, hoping that eye of his couldn't see through the back of his head. The thought didn't sit well, and I shoved it away--along with the part of me that marveled at the way the sun illuminated the leaves, and the clusters of crocuses that grew like flashes of vibrant purple against the brown and green. Those were things that weren't necessary to my plans, useless details that only blocked out everything else: the shape and slope of the path, what trees were good for climbing, sounds of nearby water sources. Those things could help me survive if I ever needed to. But, like the rest of the grounds, the forest was utterly empty. No sign of faeries, nor any High Fae wandering around. Just as well. "Well, you certainly have the quiet part of hunting down," Lucien said, falling back to ride beside me. Good--let him come to me, rather than me seeming too eager, too friendly. I adjusted the weight of the quiver strap across my chest, then ran a finger along the smooth curve of the yew bow in my lap. The bow was larger than the one I used at home, the arrows heavier and heads thicker. I would probably miss whatever target I found until I adjusted to the weight and balance of the bow. Five years ago I'd taken the very last of my father's coppers from our former fortune to purchase my bow and arrows. I'd since allotted a small sum every month for arrows and replacement strings. "Well?" Lucien pressed. "No game good enough for you to slaughter? We've passed plenty of squirrels and birds." The canopy above cast shadows upon his fox mask--light and dark and gleaming metal. "You seem to have enough food on your table that I don't need to add to it, especially when there's always plenty left over." I doubted squirrel would be good enough for their table. Lucien snorted but didn't say anything else as we passed beneath a flowering lilac, its purple cones drooping low enough to graze my cheek like cool, velvety fingers. The sweet, crisp scent lingered in my nose even as we rode on. Not useful, I told myself. Although ... the thick brush beyond it would be a good hiding spot, if I needed one. "You said you were an emissary for Tamlin," I ventured. "Do emissaries usually patrol the grounds?" A casual, disinterested question. Lucien clicked his tongue. "I'm Tamlin's emissary for formal uses, but this was Andras's shift. So someone needed to fill in. It's an honor to do it." I swallowed hard. Andras had a place here, and friends here--he hadn't been just some nameless, faceless faerie. No doubt he was more missed than I was. "I'm ... sorry," I said --and meant it. "I didn't know what--what he meant to you all." Lucien shrugged. "Tamlin said as much, which was no doubt why he brought you here. Or maybe you looked so pathetic in those rags that he took pity on you." "I wouldn't have joined you if I'd known you would use this ride as an excuse to insult me." Alis had mentioned that Lucien could use someone who snapped back at him. Easy enough. Lucien smirked. "Apologies, Feyre." I might have called him a liar for that apology had I not known he couldn't lie. Which made the apology ... sincere? I couldn't sort it out. "So," he said, "when are you going to start trying to persuade me to beseech Tamlin to find a way to free you from the Treaty's rules?" I tried not to jolt. "What?" "That's why you agreed to come out here, isn't it? Why you wound up at the stables exactly as I was leaving?" He shot me a sideways glance with that russet eye of his. "Honestly, I'm impressed--and flattered you think I have that kind of sway with Tamlin." I wouldn't reveal my hand--not yet. "What are you talking--" His cocked head was answer enough. He chuckled and said, "Before you waste one of your precious few human breaths, let me explain two things to you. One: if I had my way, you'd be gone, so it wouldn't take much convincing on your part. Two: I can't have my way, because there is no alternative to what the Treaty demands. There's no extra loophole." "But--but there has to be something--" "I admire your balls, Feyre--I really do. Or maybe it's stupidity. But since Tam won't gut you, which was my first choice, you're stuck here. Unless you want to rough it on your own in Prythian, which"--he looked me up and down--"I'd advise against." No--no, I couldn't just ... just stay here. Forever. Until I died. Maybe ... maybe there was some other way, or someone else who could find a way out. I mastered my uneven breathing, shoving away the panicked, bleating thoughts. "A valiant effort," Lucien said with a smirk. I didn't bother hiding the glare I cut in his direction. We rode on in silence, and aside from a few birds and squirrels, I saw nothing--heard nothing--unusual. After a few minutes I'd quieted my riotous thoughts enough to say, "Where is the rest of Tamlin's court? They all fled this blight on magic?" "How'd you know about the court?" he asked so quickly that I realized he thought I meant something else. I kept my face blank. "Do normal estates have emissaries? And servants chatter. Isn't that why you made them wear bird masks to that party?" Lucien scowled, that scar stretching. "We each chose what to wear that night to honor Tamlin's shape-shifting gifts. The servants, too. But now, if we had the choice, we'd peel them off with our bare hands," he said, tugging on his own. It didn't move. "What happened to the magic to make it act that way?" Lucien let out a harsh laugh. "Something was sent from the shit-holes of Hell," he said, then glanced around and swore. "I shouldn't have said that. If word got back to her--" "Who?" The color had leeched from his sun-kissed skin. He dragged a hand through his hair. "Never mind. The less you know, the better. Tam might not find it troublesome to tell you about the blight, but I wouldn't put it past a human to sell the information to the highest bidder." I bristled, but the few bits of information he'd released lay before me like glittering jewels. A her who scared Lucien enough to make him worry--to make him afraid someone might be listening, spying, monitoring his behavior. Even out here. I studied the shadows between the trees but found nothing. Prythian was ruled by seven High Lords--perhaps this she was whoever governed this territory; if not a High Lord, then a High Lady. If that was even possible. "How old are you?" I asked, hoping he'd keep divulging some more useful information. It was better than knowing nothing. "Old," he said. He scanned the brush, but I had a feeling his darting eyes weren't looking for game. His shoulders were too tense. "What sort of powers do you have? Can you shape-shift like Tamlin?" He sighed, looking skyward before he studied me warily, that metal eye narrowing with unnerving focus. "Trying to figure out my weaknesses so you can--" I glowered at him. "Fine. No, I can't shape-shift. Only Tam can." "But your friend--he appeared as a wolf. Unless that was his--" "No, no. Andras was High Fae, too. Tam can shift us into other shapes if need be. He saves it for his sentries only, though. When Andras went across the wall, Tam changed him into a wolf so he wouldn't be spotted as a faerie. Though his size was probably indication enough." A shudder went down my spine, violent enough that I didn't acknowledge the red-hot glare Lucien lobbed my way. I didn't have the nerve to ask if Tamlin could change me into another shape. "Anyway," Lucien went on, "the High Fae don't have specific powers the way the lesser faeries do. I don't have a natural-born affinity, if that's what you're asking. I don't clean everything in sight or lure mortals to a watery death or grant you answers to whatever questions you might have if you trap me. We just exist--to rule." I turned in the other direction so he couldn't see as I rolled my eyes. "I suppose if I were one of you, I'd be one of the faeries, not High Fae? A lesser faerie like Alis, waiting on you hand and foot?" He didn't reply, which amounted to a yes. With that arrogance, no wonder Lucien found my presence as a replacement for his friend to be abhorrent. And since he would probably loathe me forever, since he'd ended my scheming before it had even begun, I asked, "How'd you get that scar?" "I didn't keep my mouth shut when I should have, and was punished for it." "Tamlin did that to you?" "Cauldron, no. He wasn't there. But he got me the replacement afterward." More answers-that-weren't-answers. "So there are faeries who will actually answer any question if you trap them?" Maybe they'd know how to free me from the Treaty's terms. "Yes," he said tightly. "The Suriel. But they're old and wicked, and not worth the danger of going out to find them. And if you're stupid enough to keep looking so intrigued, I'm going to become rather suspicious and tell Tam to put you under house arrest. Though I suppose you would deserve it if you were indeed stupid enough to seek one out." They had to lurk nearby, then, if he was this concerned. Lucien whipped his head to the right, listening, his eye whirring softly. The hair on my neck stood, and I had my bow drawn in a heartbeat, pointing in the direction Lucien stared. "Put your bow down," he whispered, his voice low and rough. "Put your damned bow down, human, and look straight ahead." I did as he said, the hair on my arms rising as something rustled in the brush. "Don't react," Lucien said, forcing his gaze ahead, too, the metal eye going still and silent. "No matter what you feel or see, don't react. Don't look. Just stare ahead." I started trembling, gripping the reins in my sweaty hands. I might have wondered if this was some kind of horrible joke, but Lucien's face had gone so very, very pale. Our horses' ears flattened against their heads, but they continued walking, as if they'd also understood Lucien's command. And then I felt it. <|title|>Chapter 10 <|startofchapter|>My blood froze as a creeping, leeching cold lurched by. I couldn't see anything, just a vague shimmering in the corner of my vision, but my horse stiffened beneath me. I willed my face into blankness. Even the balmy spring woods seemed to recoil, to wither and freeze. The cold thing whispered past, circling. I could see nothing, but I could feel it. And in the back of my mind, an ancient, hollow voice whispered: I will grind your bones between my claws; I will drink your marrow; I will feast on your flesh. Iam what you fear; Iam what you dread ... Look at me. Look at me. I tried to swallow, but my throat had closed up. I kept my eyes on the trees, on the canopy, on anything but the cold mass circling us again and again. Look at me. I wanted to look--I needed to see what it was. Look at me. I stared at the coarse trunk of a distant elm, thinking of pleasant things. Like hot bread and full bellies-- I will fill my belly with you. I will devour you. Look at me. A starry, unclouded night sky, peaceful and glittering and endless. Summer sunrise. A refreshing bath in a forest pool. Meetings with Isaac, losing myself for an hour or two in his body, in our shared breaths. It was all around us, so cold that my teeth chattered. Look at me. I stared and stared at that ever-nearing tree trunk, not daring to blink. My eyes strained, filling with tears, and I let them fall, refusing to acknowledge the thing that lurked around us. Look at me. And just as I thought I would give in, when my eyes hurt so much from not looking, the cold disappeared into the brush, leaving a trail of still, recoiling plants behind it. Only after Lucien exhaled and our horses shook their heads did I dare sag in my seat. Even the crocuses seemed to straighten again. "What was that?" I asked, brushing the tears from my face. Lucien's face was still pale. "You don't want to know." "Please. Was it that ... Suriel you mentioned?" Lucien's russet eye was dark as he answered hoarsely. "No. It was a creature that should not be in these lands. We call it the Bogge. You cannot hunt it, and you cannot kill it. Even with your beloved ash arrows." "Why can't I look at it?" "Because when you look at it--when you acknowledge it--that's when it becomes real. That's when it can kill you." A shiver spider-walked down my spine. This was the Prythian I'd expected--the creatures that made humans speak of them in hushed tones even now. The reason I hadn't hesitated, not for a heartbeat, when I'd considered the possibility of that wolf being a faerie. "I heard its voice in my head. It told me to look." Lucien rolled his shoulders. "Well, thank the Cauldron that you didn't. Cleaning up that mess would have ruined the rest of my day." He gave me a wan smile. I didn't return it. I still heard the Bogge's voice whispering between the leaves, calling to me. After an hour of meandering through the trees, hardly speaking to each other, I'd stopped trembling enough to turn to him. "So you're old," I said. "And you carry around a sword, and go on border patrol. Did you fight in the War?" Fine--perhaps I hadn't quite let go of my curiosity about his eye. He winced. "Shit, Feyre--I'm not that old." "Are you a warrior, though?" Would you be able to kill me if it ever came to that? Lucien huffed a laugh. "Not as good as Tam, but I know how to handle my weapons." He patted the hilt of his sword. "Would you like me to teach you how to wield a blade, or do you already know how, oh mighty mortal huntress? If you took down Andras, you probably don't need to learn anything. Only where to aim, right?" He tapped on his chest. "I don't know how to use a sword. I only know how to hunt." "Same thing, isn't it?" "For me it's different." Lucien fell silent, considering. "I suppose you humans are such hateful cowards that you would have wet yourself, curled up, and waited to die if you'd known beyond a doubt what Andras truly was." Insufferable. Lucien sighed as he looked me over. "Do you ever stop being so serious and dull?" "Do you ever stop being such a prick?" I snapped back. Dead--treally, truly, I should have been dead for that. But Lucien grinned at me. "Much better." Alis, it seemed, had not been wrong. Whatever tentative truce we built that afternoon vanished at the dinner table. Tamlin was lounging in his usual seat, a long claw out and circling his goblet. It paused on the lip as soon as I entered, Lucien on my heels. His green eyes pinned me to the spot. Right. I'd brushed him off that morning, claiming I wanted to be alone. Tamlin slowly looked at Lucien, whose face had turned grave. "We went on a hunt," Lucien said. "I heard," Tamlin said roughly, glancing between us as we took our seats. "And did you have fun?" Slowly, his claw sank back into his flesh. Lucien didn't answer, leaving it to me. Coward. I cleared my throat. "Sort of," I said. "Did you catch anything?" Every word was clipped out. "No." Lucien gave me a pointed cough, as if urging me to say more. But I had nothing to say. Tamlin stared at me for a long moment, then dug into his food, not all that interested in talking to me, either. Then Lucien quietly said, "Tam." Tamlin looked up, more animal than fae in those green eyes. A demand for whatever it was Lucien had to say. Lucien's throat bobbed. "The Bogge was in the forest today." The fork in Tamlin's hand folded in on itself. He said with lethal calm, "You ran into it?" Lucien nodded. "It moved past but came close. It must have snuck through the border." Metal groaned as Tamlin's claws punched out, obliterating the fork. He rose to his feet with a powerful, brutal movement. I tried not to tremble at the contained fury, at how his canines seemed to lengthen as he said, "Where in the forest?" Lucien told him. Tamlin threw a glance in my direction before stalking out of the room and shutting the door behind him with unnerving gentleness. Lucien loosed a breath, pushing away his half-eaten food and rubbing at his temples. "Where is he going?" I asked, staring toward the door. "To hunt the Bogge." "You said it couldn't be killed--that you can't face it." "Tam can." My breath caught a bit. The gruff High Fae halfheartedly flattering me was capable of killing a thing like the Bogge. And yet he'd served me himself that first night, offered me life rather than death. I'd known he was lethal, that he was a warrior of sorts, but ... "So he went to hunt the Bogge where we were earlier today?" Lucien shrugged. "If he's going to pick up a trail, it would be there." I had no idea how anyone could face that immortal horror, but ... it wasn't my problem. And just because Lucien wasn't going to eat anymore didn't mean I wouldn't. Lucien, lost in thought, didn't even notice the feast I downed. I returned to my room, and--awake and with nothing else to do--began monitoring the garden beyond for any signs of Tamlin's return. He didn't come back. I sharpened the knife I'd hidden away on a bit of stone I'd taken from the garden. An hour passed--and still Tamlin didn't return. The moon showed her face, casting the garden below in silver and shadow. Ridiculous. Utterly ridiculous to watch for his return, to see if he could indeed survive against the Bogge. I turned from the window, about to drag myself into bed. But something moved out in the garden. I lunged for the curtains beside the window, not wanting to be caught waiting for him, and peered out. Not Tamlin--but someone lurked by the hedges, facing the house. Looking toward me. Male, hunched, and-- The breath went out of me as the faerie hobbled closer--just two steps into the light leaking from the house. Not a faerie, but a man. My father. <|title|>Chapter 11 <|startofchapter|>I didn't give myself a chance to panic, to doubt, to do anything but wish I had stolen some food from my breakfast table as I layered on tunic after tunic and bundled myself in a cloak, stuffing the knife I'd stolen into my boot. The extra clothes in the satchel would just be a burden to carry. My father. My father had come to take me--to save me. Whatever benefits Tamlin had given him upon my departure couldn't be too tempting, then. Maybe he had a ship prepared to take us far, far away--maybe he had somehow sold the cottage and gotten enough money to set us up in a new place, a new continent. My father--my crippled, broken father had come. A quick survey of the ground beneath my window revealed no one outside--and the silent house told me no one had spotted my father yet. He was still waiting by the hedge, now beckoning to me. At least Tamlin had not returned. With a final glance at my room, listening for anyone approaching from the hall, I grasped the nearby trellis of wisteria and eased down the building. I winced at the crunch of gravel beneath my boots, but my father was already moving toward the outer gates, limping along with his cane. How had he even gotten here? There had to be horses nearby, then. He was hardly wearing enough clothing for the winter that would await us once we crossed the wall. But I'd layered on so much that I could spare him some items if need be. Keeping my movements light and silent, carefully avoiding the light of the moon, I hurried after my father. He moved with surprising swiftness toward the darkened hedges and the gate beyond. Only a few hall candles were burning inside the house. I didn't dare breathe too loudly --didn't dare call for my father as he limped toward the gate. If we left now, if he indeed had horses, we could be halfway home by the time they realized I was gone. Then we'd flee--flee Tamlin, flee the blight that could soon invade our lands. My father reached the gates. They were already open, the dark forest beyond beckoning. He must have hidden the horses deeper in. He turned toward me, that familiar face drawn and tight, those brown eyes clear for once, and beckoned. Hurry, hurry, every movement of his hand seemed to shout. My heart was a raging beat in my chest, in my throat. Only a few feet now--to him, to freedom, to a new life-- A massive hand wrapped around my arm. "Going somewhere?" Shit, shit, shit. Tamlin's claws poked through my layers of clothing as I looked up at him in unabashed terror. I didn't dare move, not as his lips thinned and the muscles in his jaw quivered. Not as he opened his mouth and I glimpsed fangs--long, throat-tearing fangs shining in the moonlight. He was going to kill me--kill me right there, and then kill my father. No more loopholes, no more flattery, no more mercy. He didn't care anymore. I was as good as dead. "Please," I breathed. "My father--" "Your father?" He lifted his stare to the gates behind me, and his growl rumbled through me as he bared his teeth. "Why don't you look again?" He released me. I staggered back a step, whirling, sucking in a breath to tell my father to run, but-- But he wasn't there. Only a pale bow and a quiver of pale arrows remained, propped up against the gates. Mountain ash. They hadn't been there moments before, hadn't-- They rippled, as if they were nothing but water--and then the bow and quiver became a large pack, laden with supplies. Another ripple--and there were my sisters, huddled together, weeping. My knees buckled. "What is ..." I didn't finish the question. My father now stood there, still hunched and beckoning. A flawless rendering. "Weren't you warned to keep your wits about you?" Tamlin snapped. "That your human senses would betray you?" He stepped beyond me and let out a snarl so vicious that whatever the thing was by the gates shimmered with light and darted out as fast as lightning streaking through the dark. "Fool," he said to me, turning. "If you're ever going to run away, at least do it in the daytime." He stared me down, and the fangs slowly retracted. The claws remained. "There are worse things than the Bogge prowling these woods at night. That thing at the gates isn't one of them--and it still would have taken a good, long while devouring you." Somehow, my mouth began working again. And of all the things to say, I blurted, "Can you blame me? My crippled father appears beneath my window, and you think I'm not going to run for him? Did you actually think I'd gladly stay here forever, even if you'd taken care of my family, all for some Treaty that had nothing to do with me and allows your kind to slaughter humans as you see fit?" He flexed his fingers as if trying to get the claws back in, but they remained out, ready to slice through flesh and bone. "What do you want, Feyre?" "I want to go home!" "Home to what, exactly? You'd prefer that miserable human existence to this?" "I made a promise," I said, my breathing ragged. "To my mother, when she died. That I'd look after my family. That I'd take care of them. All I have done, every single day, every hour, has been for that vow. And just because I was hunting to save my family, to put food in their bellies, I'm now forced to break it." He stalked toward the house, and I gave him a wide berth before falling into step behind him. His claws slowly, slowly retracted. He didn't look at me as he said, "You are not breaking your vow--you are fulfilling it, and then some, by staying here. Your family is better cared for now than they were when you were there." Those chipped, miscolored paintings inside the cottage flashed in my vision. Perhaps they would forget who had even painted them in the first place. Insignificant--that's what all those years I'd given them would be, as insignificant as I was to these High Fae. And that dream I'd had, of one day living with my father, with enough food and money and paint ... it had been my dream--no one else's. I rubbed at my chest. "I can't just give up on it, on them. No matter what you say." Even if I had been a fool--a stupid, human fool--to believe my father would ever actually come for me. Tamlin eyed me sidelong. "You're not giving up on them." "Living in luxury, stuffing myself with food? How is that not--" "They are cared for--they are fed and comfortable." Fed and comfortable. If he couldn't lie, if it was true, then ... then it was beyond anything I'd ever dared hope for. Then ... my vow to my mother was fulfilled. It stunned me enough that I didn't say anything for a moment as we walked. My life was now owned by the Treaty, but ... perhaps I'd been freed in another sort of way. We neared the sweeping stairs that led into the manor, and I finally asked, "Lucien goes on border patrol, and you've mentioned other sentries--yet I've never seen one here. Where are they all?" "At the border," he said, as if that were a suitable answer. Then he added, "We don't need sentries if I'm here." Because he was deadly enough. I tried not to think about it, but still I asked, "Were you trained as a warrior, then?" "Yes." When I didn't reply, he added, "I spent most of my life in my father's war-band on the borders, training as a warrior to one day serve him--or others. Running these lands ... Was not supposed to fall to me." The flatness with which he said it told me enough about how he felt about his current title, about why the presence of his silver-tongued friend was necessary. But it was too personal, too demanding, to ask what had occurred to change his circumstances so greatly. So I cleared my throat and said, "What manner of faeries prowl the woods beyond this gate, if the Bogge isn't the worst of them? What was that thing ?" What I'd meant to ask was, What would have tormented and then eaten me? Who are you to be so powerful that they pose no threat to you? He paused on the bottom step, waiting for me to catch up. "A puca. They use your own desires to lure you to some remote place. Then they eat you. Slowly. It probably smelled your human scent in the woods and followed it to the house." I shivered and didn't bother tohide it. Tamlin went on. "These lands used to be well guarded. The deadlier faeries were contained within the borders of their native territories, monitored by the local Fae lords, or driven into hiding. Creatures like the puca never would have dared set foot here. But now, the sickness that infected Prythian has weakened the wards that kept them out." A long pause, like the words were choked out of him. "Things are different now. It's not safe to travel alone at night--especially if you're human." Because humans were defenseless as babes compared to natural-born predators like Lucien--and Tamlin, who didn't need weapons to hunt. I glanced at his hands but found no trace of the claws. Only tanned, callused skin. "What else is different now?" I asked, trailing him up the marble front steps. He didn't stop this time, didn't even look over his shoulder to see me as he said, "Everything." So I truly was to live there forever. As much as I longed to ensure that Tamlin's word about caring for my family was true, as much as his claim that I was taking better care of my family by staying away--even if I was truly fulfilling that vow to my mother by staying in Prythian ... Without the weight of that promise, I was left hollow and empty. Over the next three days, I found myself joining Lucien on Andras's old patrol while Tamlin hunted the grounds for the Bogge, unseen by us. Despite being an occasional bastard, Lucien didn't seem to mind my company, and he did most of the talking, which was fine; it left me to brood over the consequences of firing a single arrow. An arrow. I never fired a single one during those three days we rode along the border. That very morning I'd spied a red doe in a glen and aimed out of instinct, my arrow poised to fly right into her eye as Lucien sneered that she was not a faerie, at least. But I'd stared at her--fat and healthy and content--and then slackened the bow, replaced the arrow in my quiver, and let the doe wander on. I never saw Tamlin around the manor--off hunting the Bogge day and night, Lucien informed me. Even at dinner, he spoke little before leaving early--off to continue his hunt, night after night. I didn't mind his absence. It was a relief, if anything. On the third night after my encounter with the puca, I'd scarcely sat down before Tamlin got up, giving an excuse about not wanting to waste hunting time. Lucien and I stared after him for a moment. What I could see of Lucien's face was pale and tight. "You worry about him," I said. Lucien slumped in his seat, wholly undignified for a Fae lord. "Tamlin gets into ... moods." "He doesn't want your help hunting the Bogge?" "He prefers being alone. And having the Bogge on our lands ... I don't suppose you'd understand. The puca are minor enough not to bother him, but even after he's shredded the Bogge, he'll brood over it." "And there's no one who can help him at all?" "He would probably shred them for disobeying his order to stay away." A brush of ice slithered across my nape. "He would be that brutal?" Lucien studied the wine in his goblet. "You don't hold on to power by being everyone's friend. And among the faeries, lesser and High Fae alike, a firm hand is needed. We're too powerful, and too bored with immortality, to be checked by anything else." It seemed like a cold, lonely position to have, especially when you didn't particularly want it. I wasn't sure why it bothered me so much. The snow was falling, thick and merciless, already up to my knees as I pulled the bowstring back--farther and farther, until my arm trembled. Behind me, a shadow lurked --no, watched. I didn't dare turn to look at it, to see who might be within that shadow, observing, not as the wolf stared at me across the clearing. Just staring. As if waiting, as if daring me to fire the ash arrow. No--no, I didn't want to do it, not this time, not again, not-- But I had no control over my fingers, absolutely none, and he was still staring as I fired. One shot--one shot straight through that golden eye. A plume of blood splattering the snow, a thud of a heavy body, a sigh of wind. No. It wasnt a wolf that hit the snow--no, it was a man, tall and well formed. No--not a man. A High Fae, with those pointed ears. I blinked, and then--then my hands were warm and sticky with blood, then his body was red and skinless, steaming in the cold, and it was his skin--his skin--that I held in my hands, and-- I threw myself awake, sweat slipping down my back, and forced myself to breathe, to open my eyes and note each detail of the night-dark bedroom. Real--this was real. But I could still see that High Fae male facedown in the snow, my arrow through his eye, red and bloody all over from where I'd cut and peeled off his skin. Bile stung my throat. Not real. Just a dream. Even if what I'd done to Andras, even as a wolf, was ... was ... I scrubbed at my face. Perhaps it was the quiet, the hollowness, of the past few days-- perhaps it was only that I no longer had to think hour to hour about how to keep my family alive, but ... It was regret, and maybe shame, that coated my tongue, my bones. I shuddered as if I could fling it off, and kicked back the sheets to rise from the bed. <|title|>Chapter 12 <|startofchapter|>I couldn't entirely shake the horror, the gore of my dream as I walked down the dark halls of the manor, the servants and Lucien long since asleep. But I had to do something --anything--after that nightmare. If only to avoid sleeping. A bit of paper in one hand and a pen gripped in the other, I carefully traced my steps, noting the windows and doors and exits, occasionally jotting down vague sketches and Xs on the parchment. It was the best I could do, and to any literate human, my markings would have made no sense. But I couldn't write or read more than my basic letters, and my makeshift map was better than nothing. If I were to remain here, it was essential to know the best hiding places, the easiest way out, should things ever go badly for me. I couldn't entirely let go of the instinct. It was too dim to admire any of the paintings lining the walls, and I didn't dare risk a candle. These past three days, there had been servants in the halls when I'd worked up the nerve to look at the art--and the part of me that spoke with Nesta's voice had laughed at the idea of an ignorant human trying to admire faerie art. Some other time, then, I'd told myself. I would find another day, a quiet hour when no one was around, to look at them. I had plenty of hours now--a whole lifetime in front of me. Perhaps ... perhaps I'd figure out what I wished to do with it. I crept down the main staircase, moonlight flooding the black-and-white tiles of the entrance hall. I reached the bottom, my bare feet silent on the cold tiles, and listened. Nothing--no one. I set my little map on the foyer table and drew a few Xs and circles to signify the doors, the windows, the marble stairs of the front hall. I would become so familiar with the house that I could navigate it even if someone blinded me. A breeze announced his arrival--and I turned from the table toward the long hall, to the open glass doors to the garden. I'd forgotten how huge he was in this form--forgotten the curled horns and lupine face, the bearlike body that moved with a feline fluidity. His green eyes glowed in the darkness, fixing on me, and as the doors snicked shut behind him, the clicking of claws on marble filled the hall. I stood still--not daring to flinch, to move a muscle. He limped slightly. And in the moonlight, dark, shining stains were left in his wake. He continued toward me, stealing the air from the entire hall. He was so big that the space felt cramped, like a cage. The scrape of claw, a huff of uneven breathing, the dripping of blood. Between one step and the next, he changed forms, and I squeezed my eyes shut at the blinding flash. When at last my eyes adjusted to the returning darkness, he was standing in front of me. Standing, but--not quite there. No sign of the baldric, or his knives. His clothes were in shreds--long, vicious slashes that made me wonder how he wasn't gutted and dead. But the muscled skin peering out beneath his shirt was smooth, unharmed. "Did you kill the Bogge?" My voice was hardly more than a whisper. "Yes." A dull, empty answer. As if he couldn't be bothered to remember to be pleasant. As if I were at the very, very bottom of a long list of priorities. "You're hurt," I said even more quietly. Indeed, his hand was covered in blood, even more splattering on the floor beneath him. He looked at it blankly--as if it took some monumental effort to remember that he even had a hand, and that it was injured. What effort of will and strength had it taken to kill the Bogge, to face that wretched menace? How deep had he had to dig inside himself--to whatever immortal power and animal that lived there--to kill it? He glanced down at the map on the table, and his voice was void of anything--any emotion, any anger or anusement--as he said, "What is that?" I snatched up the map. "I thought I should learn my surroundings." Drip, drip, drip. I opened my mouth to point out his hand again, but he said, "You can't write, can you." I didn't answer. I didn't know what to say. Ignorant, insignificant human. "No wonder you became so adept at other things." I supposed he was so far gone in thinking about his encounter with the Bogge that he hadn't realized the compliment he'd given me. If it was a compliment. Another splatter of blood on the marble. "Where can we clean up your hand?" He lifted his head to look at me again. Still and silent and weary. Then he said, "There's a small infirmary." I wanted to tell myself that it was probably the most useful thing I'd learned all night. But as I followed him there, avoiding the blood he trailed, I thought of what Lucien had told me about his isolation, that burden, thought of what Tamlin had mentioned about how these estates should not have been his, and felt ... sorry for him. The infirmary was well stocked, but was more of a supply closet with a worktable than an actual place to host sick faeries. I supposed that was all they needed when they could heal themselves with their immortal powers. But this wound--this wound wasn't healing. Tamlin slumped against the edge of the table, gripping his injured hand at the wrist as he watched me sort through the supplies in the cabinets and drawers. When I'd gathered what I needed, I tried not to balk at the thought of touching him, but ... I didn't let myself give in to my dread as I took his hand, the heat of his skin like an inferno against my cool fingers. I cleaned off his bloody, dirty hand, bracing for the first flash of those claws. But his claws remained retracted, and he kept silent as I bound and wrapped his hand-- surprisingly enough, there were no more than a few vicious cuts, none of them requiring stitching. I secured the bandage in place and stepped away, bringing the bowl of bloody water to the deep sink in the back of the room. His eyes were a brand upon me as I finished cleaning, and the room became too small, too hot. He'd killed the Bogge and walked away relatively unscathed. If Tamlin was that powerful, then the High Lords of Prythian must be near-gods. Every mortal instinct in my body bleated in panic at the thought. I was almost at the open door, stifling the urge to bolt back to my room, when he said, "You can't write, yet you learned to hunt, to survive. How?" I paused with my foot on the threshold. "That's what happens when you're responsible for lives other than your own, isn't it? You do what you have to do." He was still sitting on the table, still straddling that inner line between the here and now and wherever he'd had to go in his mind to endure the fight with the Bogge. I met his feral and glowing stare. "You aren't what I expected--for a human," he said. I didn't reply. And he didn't say good-bye as I walked out. The next morning, as I made my way down the grand staircase, I tried not to think too much about the clean-washed marble tiles on the floor below--no sign of the blood Tamlin had lost. I tried not to think too much at all about our encounter, actually. When I found the front hall empty, I almost smiled--felt a ripple in that hollow emptiness that had been hounding me. Perhaps now, perhaps in this moment of quiet, I could at last look through the art on the walls, take time to observe it, learn it, admire it. Heart racing at the thought, I was about to head toward a hall I had noted was nearly covered in painting after painting when low male voices floated out from the dining room. I paused. The voices were tense enough that I made my steps silent as I slid into the shadows behind the open door. A cowardly, wretched thing to do--but what they were saying had me shoving aside any guilt. "I just want to know what you think you're doing." It was Lucien--that familiar lazy viciousness coating each word. "What are you doing?" Tamlin snapped. Through the space between the hinge and the door I could glimpse the two of them standing almost face-to-face. On Tamlin's nonbandaged hand, his claws shone in the morning light. "Me?" Lucien put a hand on his chest. "By the Cauldron, Tam--there isn't much time, and you're just sulking and glowering. You're not even trying to fake it anymore." My brows rose. Tamlin turned away but whirled back a moment later, his teeth bared. "It was a mistake from the start. I can't stomach it, not after what my father did to their kind, to their lands. I won't follow in his footsteps--won't be that sort of person. So back off." "Back off? Back off while you seal our fates and ruin everything? I stayed with you out of hope, not to watch you stumble. For someone with a heart of stone, yours is certainly soft these days. The Bogge was on our lands--the Bogge, Tamlin! The barriers between courts have vanished, and even our woods are teeming with filth like the puca. Are you just going to start living out there, slaughtering every bit of vermin that slinks in?" "Watch your mouth," Tamlin said. Lucien stepped toward him, exposing his teeth as well. A pulsing kind of air hit me in the stomach, and a metallic stench filled my nose. But I couldn't see any magic--only feel it. I couldn't tell if that made it worse. "Don't push me, Lucien." Tamlin's tone became dangerously quiet, and the hair on the back of my neck stood as he emitted a growl that was pure animal. "You think I don't know what's happening on my own lands? What I've got to lose? What's lost already?" The blight. Perhaps it was contained, but it seemed it was still wreaking havoc--still a threat, and perhaps one they truly didn't want me knowing about, either from lack of trust or because ... because I was no one and nothing to them. I leaned forward, but as I did, my finger slipped and softly thudded against the door. A human might not have heard, but both High Fae whirled. My heart stumbled. I stepped toward the threshold, clearing my throat as I came up with a dozen excuses to shield myself. I looked at Lucien and forced myself to smile. His eyes widened, and I had to wonder if it was because of that smile, or because I looked truly guilty. "Are you going out for a ride?" I said, feeling a bit sick as I gestured behind me with a thumb. I hadn't planned on riding with him today, but it sounded like a decent excuse. Lucien's russet eye was bright, though the smile he gave me didn't meet it. The face of Tamlin's emissary--more court-trained and calculating than I'd seen him yet. "I'm unavailable today," he said. He jerked his chin to Tamlin. "He'll go with you." Tamlin shot his friend a look of disdain that he took few pains to hide. His usual baldric was armed with more knives than I'd seen before, and their ornate metal handles glinted as he turned to me, his shoulders tight. "Whenever you want to go, just say so." The claws of his free hand slipped back under his skin. No. I almost said it aloud as I turned pleading eyes to Lucien. Lucien merely patted my shoulder as he passed by. "Perhaps tomorrow, human." Alone with Tamlin, I swallowed hard. He stood there, waiting. "I don't want to go for a hunt," I finally said quietly. True. "I hate hunting." He cocked his head. "Then what do you want to do?" Tamlin led me down the halls. A soft breeze laced with the scent of roses slipped in through the open windows to caress my face. "You've been going for hunts," Tamlin said at last, "but you really don't have any interest in hunting." He cast me a sidelong glance. "No wonder you two never catch anything." No trace of the hollow, cold warrior of the night before, or of the angry Fae noble of minutes before. Just Tamlin right now, it seemed. I'd be a fool to let my guard down around Tamlin, to think that his acting naturally meant anything, especially when something was so clearly amiss at his estate. He'd taken down the Bogge--and that made him the most dangerous creature I'd ever encountered. I didn't quite know what to make of him, and said somewhat stiltedly, "How's your hand?" He flexed his bandaged hand, studying the white bindings, stark and clean against his sun-kissed skin. "I didn't thank you." "You don't need to." But he shook his head, and his golden hair caught and held the morning light as if it were spun from the sun itself. "The Bogge's bite was crafted to slow the healing of High Fae long enough to kill us. You have my gratitude." When I shrugged it off, he added, "How did you learn to bind wounds like this? I can still use the hand, even with the wrappings." "Trial and error. I had to be able to pull a bowstring the next day." He was quiet as we turned down another sun-drenched marble hallway, and I dared to look at him. I found him carefully studying me, his lips in a thin line. "Has anyone ever taken care of you?" he asked quietly. "No." I'd long since stopped feeling sorry for myself about it. "Did you learn to hunt in a similar manner--trial and error?" "I spied on hunters when I could get away with it, and then practiced until I hit something. When I missed, we didn't eat. So learning how to aim was the first thing I figured out." "I'm curious," he said casually. The amber in his green eyes was glowing. Perhaps not all traces of that beast-warrior were gone. "Are you ever going to use that knife you stole from my table?" I stiffened. "How did you know?" Beneath the mask, I could have sworn his brows were raised. "I was trained to notice those things. But I could smell the fear on you, more than anything." I grumbled, "I thought no one noticed." He gave me a crooked smile, more genuine than all the faked smiles and flattery he'd given me before. "Regardless of the Treaty, if you want to stand a chance at escaping my kind, you'll need to think more creatively than stealing dinner knives. But with your affinity for eavesdropping, maybe you'll someday learn something valuable." My ears flared with heat. "I--I wasn't ... Sorry," I mumbled. But I ran through what I'd overheard. There was no point in pretending I hadn't eavesdropped. "Lucien said you didn't have much time. What did he mean? Are more creatures like the Bogge going to come here thanks to the blight?" Tamlin went rigid, scanning the hall around us, taking in every sight and sound and scent. Then he shrugged, too stiff to be genuine. "I'm an immortal. I have nothing but time, Feyre." He said my name with such ... intimacy. As if he weren't a creature capable of killing monsters made from nightmares. I opened my mouth to demand more of an answer, but he cut me off. "The force plaguing our lands and powers--that, too, will pass someday, if we're Cauldron-blessed. But yes--now that the Bogge entered these lands, I'd say it's fair to assume others might follow it, especially if the puca was already so bold." If the borders between the courts were gone, though, as I'd heard Lucien say--if everything in Prythian was different, as Tamlin had claimed, thanks to this blight ... Well, I didn't want to be caught up in some brutal war or revolution. I doubted I'd survive very long. Tamlin strode ahead and opened a set of double doors at the end of the hall. The powerful muscles of his back shifted beneath his clothes. I'd never forget what he was-- what he was capable of. What he'd been trained to do, apparently. "As requested," he said, "the study." I saw what lay beyond him and my stomach twisted. <|title|>Chapter 13 <|startofchapter|>Tamlin waved his hand, and a hundred candles sprang to life. Whatever Lucien had said about magic being drained and off-kilter thanks to the blight clearly hadn't affected Tamlin as dramatically, or perhaps he'd been far more powerful to start with, if he could transform his sentries into wolves whenever he pleased. The tang of magic stung my senses, but I kept my chin high. That is, until I peered inside. My palms began sweating as I took in the enormous, opulent study. Tomes lined each wall like the soldiers of a silent army, and couches, desks, and rich rugs were scattered throughout the room. But ... it had been over a week since I left my family. Though my father had said never to return, though my vow to my mother was fulfilled, I could at least let them know I was safe--relatively safe. And warn them about the sickness sweeping across Prythian that might someday soon cross the wall. There was only one method to convey it. "Do you need anything else?" Tamlin asked, and I jerked. He still stood behind me. "No," I said, striding into the study. I couldn't think about the casual power he'd just shown--the graceful carelessness with which he'd brought so many flames to life. I had to focus on the task at hand. It wasn't entirely my fault that I was scarcely able to read. Before our downfall, my mother had sorely neglected our education, not bothering to hire a governess. And after poverty struck and my elder sisters, who could read and write, deemed the village school beneath us, they didn't bother to teach me. I could read enough to function--enough to form my letters, but so poorly that even signing my name was mortifying. It was bad enough that Tamlin knew. I would think about how to get the letter to them once it was finished; perhaps I could beg a favor of him, or Lucien. Asking them to write it would be too humiliating. I could hear their words: typical ignorant human. And since Lucien seemed convinced that I would turn spy the moment I could, he would no doubt burn the letter, and any I tried to write after. So I'd have to learn myself. "I'll leave you to it, then," Tamlin said as our silence became too prolonged, too tense. I didn't move until he'd closed the doors, shutting me inside. My heartbeat pulsed throughout my body as I approached a shelf. I had to take a break for dinner and to sleep, but I was back in the study before the dawn had fully risen. I'd found a small writing desk in a corner and gathered papers and ink. My finger traced a line of text, and I whispered the words. " "She grab-bed ... grabbed her shoe, sta... nd... standing from her pos... po...' " I sat back in my chair and pressed the heels of my palms into my eyes. When I felt less near to ripping out my hair, I took the quill and underlined the word: position. With a shaking hand, I did my best to copy letter after letter onto the ever-growing list I kept beside the book. There were at least forty words on it, their letters malformed and barely legible. I would look up their pronunciations later. I rose from the chair, needing to stretch my legs, my spine--or just to get away from that lengthy list of words I didn't know how to pronounce and the permanent heat that now warmed my face and neck. I suppose the study was more of a library, as I couldn't see any of the walls thanks to the small labyrinths of stacks flanking the main area and a mezzanine dangling above, covered wall to wall in books. But study sounded less intimidating. I meandered through some of the stacks, following a trickle of sunlight to a bank of windows on the far side. I found myself overlooking a rose garden, filled with dozens of hues of crimson and pink and white and yellow. I might have allowed myself a moment to take in the colors, gleaming with dew under the moming sun, had I not glimpsed the painting that stretched along the wall beside the windows. Not a painting, I thought, blinking as I stepped back to view its massive expanse. No, it was ... I searched for the word in that half-forgotten part of my mind. Mural. That's what it was. At first I could do nothing but stare at its size, at the ambition of it, at the fact that this masterpiece was tucked back here for no one to ever see, as if it was nothing--absolutely nothing--to create something like this. It told a story with the way colors and shapes and light flowed, the way the tone shifted across the mural. The story of ... of Prythian. It began with a cauldron. A mighty black cauldron held by glowing, slender female hands in a starry, endless night. Those hands tipped it over, golden sparkling liquid pouring out over the lip. No-- not sparkling, but ... effervescent with small symbols, perhaps of some ancient faerie language. Whatever was written there, whatever it was, the contents of the cauldron were dumped into the void below, pooling on the earth to form our world ... The map spanned the entirety of our world--not just the land on which we stood, but also the seas and the larger continents beyond. Each territory was marked and colored, some with intricate, ornate depictions of the beings who had once ruled over lands that now belonged to humans. All of it, I remembered with a shudder, all of the world had once been theirs--at least as far as they believed, crafted for them by the bearer of the cauldron. There was no mention of humans--no sign of us here. I supposed we'd been as low as pigs to them. It was hard to look at the next panel. It was so simple, yet so detailed that, for a moment, I stood there on that battlefield, feeling the texture of the bloodied mud beneath me, shoulder to shoulder with the thousands of other human soldiers lined up, facing the faerie hordes who charged at us. A moment of pause before the slaughter. The humans' arrows and swords seemed so pointless against the High Fae in their glimmering armor, or the faeries bristling with claws and fangs. I knew--knew without another panel to explicitly show me--the humans hadn't survived that particular battle. The smear of black on the panel beside it, tinged with glimmers of red, said enough. Then another map, of a much-reduced faerie realm. Northern territories had been cut up and divided to make room for the High Fae, who had lost their lands to the south of the wall. Everything north of the wall went to them; everything south was left as a blur of nothing. A decimated, forgotten world--as if the painter couldn't be bothered to render it. I scanned the various lands and territories now given to the High Fae. Still so much territory--such monstrous power spread across the entire northern part of our world. I knew they were ruled by kings or queens or councils or empresses, but I'd never seen a representation of it, of how much they'd been forced to concede to the South, and how crammed their lands now were in comparison. Our massive island had fared well for Prythian by comparison, with only the bottom tip given over to us miserable humans. The bulk of the sacrifice was borne by the southernmost of the seven territories: a territory painted with crocuses and lambs and roses. Spring lands. I took a step closer, until I could see the dark, ugly smear that acted as the wall-- another spiteful touch by the painter. No markers in the human realm, nothing to indicate any of the larger towns or centers, but ... I found the rough area where our village was, and the woods that separated it from the wall. Those two days' journey seemed so small-- too small--compared to the power lurking above us. I traced a line, my finger hovering over the paint, up over the wall, into these lands--the lands of the Spring Court. Again, no markers, but it was filled with touches of spring: trees in bloom, fickle storms, young animals ... At least I was to live out my days in one of the more moderate courts, weather- wise. A small consolation. I looked northward and stepped back again. The six other courts of Prythian occupied a patchwork of territories. Autumn, Summer, and Winter were easy enough to pick out. Then above them, two glowing courts: the southernmost one a softer, redder palate, the Dawn Court; above, in bright gold and yellow and blue, the Day Court. And above that, perched in a frozen mountainous spread of darkness and stars, the sprawling, massive territory of the Night Court. There were things in the shadows between those mountains--little eyes, gleaming teeth. A land of lethal beauty. The hair on my arms rose. I might have examined the other kingdoms across the seas that flanked our land, like the isolated faerie kingdom to the west that seemed to have gotten away with no territory loss and was still law unto itself, had I not looked to the heart of that beautiful, living map. In the center of the land, as if it were the core around which everything else had spread, or perhaps the place where the cauldron's liquid had first touched, was a small, snowy mountain range. From it arose a mammoth, solitary peak. Bald of snow, bald of life--as if the elements refused to touch it. There were no more clues about what it might be; nothing to indicate its importance, and I supposed that the viewers were already supposed to know. This was not a mural for human eyes. With that thought, I went back to my little table. At least I'd learned the layout of their lands--and I knew to never, ever go north. I eased into my seat and found my place in the book, my face warming as I glanced at the illustrations scattered throughout. A children's book, and yet I could scarcely make it through its twenty or so pages. Why did Tamlin have children's books in his library? Were they from his own childhood, or in anticipation of children to come? It didn't matter. I couldn't even read them. I hated the smell of these books--the decaying rot of the pages, the mocking whisper of the paper, the rough skin of the binding. I looked at the piece of paper, at all those words I didn't know. I bunched my list in my hand, crumpling the paper into a ball, and chucked it into the rubbish bin. "I could help you write to them, if that's why you're in here." I jerked back in my seat, almost knocking over the chair, and whirled to find Tamlin behind me, a stack of books in his arms. I pushed back against the heat rising in my cheeks and ears, the panic at the information he might be guessing I'd been trying to send. "Help? You mean a faerie is passing up the opportunity to mock an ignorant mortal?" He set the books down on the table, his jaw tight. I couldn't read the titles glinting on the leather spines. "Why should I mock you for a shortcoming that isn't your fault? Let me help you. I owe you for the hand." Shortcoming. It was a shortcoming. Yet it was one thing to bandage his hand, to talk to him as if he wasn't a predator built to kill and destroy, but to reveal how little I truly knew, to let him see that part of me that was still a child, unfinished and raw ... His face was unreadable. Though there had been no pity in his voice, I straightened. "I'm fine." "You think I've got nothing better to do with my time than come up with elaborate ways to humiliate you?" I thought of that smear of nothing that the painter had used to render the human lands, and didn't have an answer--at least, not one that was polite. I'd given enough already to them--to him. Tamlin shook his head. "So you'll let Lucien take you on hunts and--" "Lucien," I interrupted quietly but not softly, "doesn't pretend to be anything but what he is." "What's that supposed to mean?" he growled, but his claws stayed retracted, even as he clenched his hands into fists at his sides. I was definitely walking a dangerous line, but I didn't care. Even if he'd offered me sanctuary, I didn't have to fall at his feet. "It means," I said with that same cold quiet, "that I don't know you. I don't know who you are, or what you really are, or what you want." "It means you don't trust me." "How can I trust a faerie? Don't you delight in killing and tricking us?" His snarl set the flames of the candles guttering. "You aren't what I had in mind for a human--believe me." I could almost feel the wound deep in my chest as it ripped open and all those awful, silent words came pouring out. Illiterate, ignorant, unremarkable, proud, cold--all spoken from Nesta's mouth, all echoing in my head with her sneering voice. I pinched my lips together. He winced and lifted a hand slightly, as if about to reach for me. "Feyre," he began-- softly enough that I just shook my head and left the room. He didn't stop me. But that afternoon, when I went to retrieve my crumpled list from the wastebasket, it was gone. And my pile of books had been disturbed--the titles out of order. It had probably been a servant, I assured myself, calming the tightness in my chest. Just Alis or some other bird-masked faerie cleaning up. I hadn't written anything incriminating--there was no way he knew I'd been trying to warn my family. I doubted he would punish me for it, but ... our conversation earlier had been bad enough. Still, my hands were unsteady as I took my seat at the little desk and found my place in the book I'd used that morning. I knew it was shameful to mark the books with ink, but if Tamlin could afford gold plates, he could replace a book or two. I stared at the book without seeing the jumble of letters. Maybe I was a fool for not accepting his help, for not swallowing my pride and having him write the letter in a few moments. Not even a letter of warning, but just--just to let them know I was safe. If he had better things to do with his time than come up with ways to embarrass me, then surely he had better things to do than help me write letters to my family. And yet he'd offered. A nearby clock chimed the hour. Shortcoming--another one of my shortcomings. I rubbed my brows with my thumb and forefinger. I'd been equally foolish for feeling a shred of pity for him--for the lone, brooding faerie, for someone I had so stupidly thought would really care if he met someone who perhaps felt the same, perhaps understood--in my ignorant, insignificant human way--what it was like to bear the weight of caring for others. I should have let his hand bleed that night, should have known better than to think that maybe--maybe there would be someone, human or faerie or whatever, who could understand what my life-- what I--had become these past few years. A minute passed, then another. Faeries might not be able to lie, but they could certainly withhold information; Tamlin, Lucien, and Alis had done their best not to answer my specific questions. Knowing more about the blight that threatened them--knowing anything about it, where it had come from, what else it could do, and especially what it could do to a human--was worth my time to learn. And if there was a chance that they might also possess some knowledge about a forgotten loophole of that damned Treaty, if they knew some way to pay the debt I owed and return me to my family so I might warn them about the blight myself ... I had to risk it. Twenty minutes later I had tracked down Lucien in his bedroom. I'd marked on my little map where it was--in a separate wing on the second level, far from mine--and after searching in his usual haunts, it was the last place to look. I knocked on the white-painted double doors. "Come in, human." He could probably detect me by my breathing patterns alone. Or maybe that eye of his could see through the door. I eased open the door. The room was similar to mine in shape, but was bedecked in hues of orange and red and gold, with faint traces of green and brown. Like being in an autumn wood. But while my room was all softness and grace, his was marked with ruggedness. In lieu of a pretty breakfast table by the window, a worn worktable dominated the space, covered in various weapons. It was there he sat, wearing only a white shirt and trousers, his red hair unbound and gleaming like liquid fire. Tamlin's court-trained emissary, but a warrior in his own right. "I haven't seen you around," I said, shutting the door and leaning against it. "I had to go sort out some hotheads on the northern border--official emissary business," he said, setting down the hunting knife he'd been cleaning, a long, vicious blade. "I got back in time to hear your little spat with Tam, and decided I was safer up here. I'm glad to hear your human heart has warmed to me, though. At least I'm not on the top of your killing list." I gave him a long look. "Well," he went on, shrugging, "it seems that you managed to get under Tam's fur enough that he sought me out and nearly bit my head off. So I suppose I can thank you for ruining what should have been a peaceful lunch. Thankfully for me, there's been a disturbance out in the western forest, and my poor friend had to go deal with it in that way only he can. I'm surprised you didn't run into him on the stairs." Thank the forgotten gods for some small mercies. "What sort of disturbance?" Lucien shrugged, but the movement was too tense to be careless. "The usual sort: unwanted, nasty creatures raising hell." Good--good that Tamlin was away and wouldn't be here to catch me in what I planned to do. Another bit of luck. "I'm impressed you answered me that much," I said as casually as I could, thinking through my words. "But it's too bad you're not like the Suriel, spouting any information I want if I'm clever enough to snare you." For a moment, he blinked at me. Then his mouth twisted to the side, and that metal eye whizzed and narrowed on me. "I suppose you won't tell me what you want to know." "You have your secrets, and I have mine," I said carefully. I couldn't tell whether he would try to convince me otherwise if I told him the truth. "But if you were a Suriel," I added with deliberate slowness, in case he hadn't caught my meaning, "how, exactly, would I trap you?" Lucien set down the knife and picked at his nails. For a moment, I wondered if he would tell me anything at all. Wondered if he would go right to Tamlin and tattle. But then he said, "I'd probably have a weakness for groves of young birch trees in the western woods, and freshly slaughtered chickens, and would probably be so greedy that I wouldn't notice the double-loop snare rigged around the grove to pin my legs in place." "Hmm." I didn't dare ask why he had decided to be accommodating. There was still a good chance he wouldn't mind seeing me dead, but I would risk it. "I somehow prefer you as a High Fae." He smirked, but the amusement was short-lived. "If I were insane and stupid enough to go after a Suriel, I'd also take a bow and quiver, and maybe a knife just like this one." He sheathed the knife he'd cleaned and set it down at the edge of the table--an offering. "And I'd be prepared to run like hell when I freed it--to the nearest running water, which they hate crossing." "But you're not insane, so you'll be here, safe and sound?" "I'll be conveniently hunting on the grounds, and with my superior hearing, I might be feeling generous enough to listen if someone screams from the western woods. But it's a good thing I had no role in telling you to go out today, since Tam would eviscerate anyone who told you how to trap a Suriel; and it's a good thing I had planned to hunt anyway, because if anyone caught me helping you, there would be trouble of a whole other hell awaiting us. I hope your secrets are worth it." He said it with his usual grin, but there was an edge to it--a warning I didn't miss. Another riddle--and another bit of information. I said, "It's a good thing that while you have superior hearing, I possess superior abilities to keep my mouth shut." He snorted as I took the knife from the table and turned to procure the bow from my room. "I think I'm starting to like you--for a murdering human." <|title|>Chapter 14 <|startofchapter|>Western woods. Grove of young birch trees. Slaughtered chicken. Double-loop snare. Close to running water. I repeated Lucien's instructions as I walked out of the manor, through the cultivated gardens, across the wild, rolling grassy hills beyond them, over clear streams, and into the spring woods beyond. No one had stopped me--no one had even been around to see me leave, bow and quiver across my back, Lucien's knife at my side. I lugged along a satchel stuffed with a freshly dead chicken courtesy of the baffled kitchen staff, and had tucked an extra blade into my boot. The lands were as empty as the manor itself, though I occasionally glimpsed something shining in the corner of my eye. Every time I turned to look, the shimmering transformed into the sunlight dancing on a nearby stream, or the wind fluttering the leaves of a lone sycamore atop a knoll. As I passed a large pond nestled at the foot of a towering hill, I could have sworn I saw four shining female heads poking up from the bright water, watching me. I hurried my steps. Only birds and the chittering and rustling of small animals sounded as I entered the still green western forest. I'd never ridden through these woods on my hunts with Lucien. There was no path here, nothing tame about it. Oaks, elms, and beeches intertwined in a thick weave, almost strangling the trickle of sunlight that crept in through the dense canopy. The moss-covered earth swallowed any sound I made. Old--this forest was ancient. And alive, in a way that I couldn't describe but could only feel, deep in the marrow of my bones. Perhaps I was the first human in five hundred years to walk beneath those heavy, dark branches, to inhale the freshness of spring leaves masking the damp, thick rot. Birch trees--running water. I made my way through the woods, breath tight in my throat. Night was the dangerous time, I reminded myself. I had only a few hours until sunset. Even if the Bogge had stalked us in the daylight. The Bogge was dead, and whatever horror Tamlin was now dealing with dwelled in another part of these lands. The Spring Court. I wondered in what ways Tamlin had to answer to its High Lord, or if it was his High Lord who had carved out Lucien's eye. Maybe it was the High Lord's consort--the she whom Lucien had mentioned--that instilled such fear in them. I pushed away the thought. I kept my steps light, my eyes and ears open, and my heartbeat steady. Shortcomings or no, I could still hunt. And the answers I needed were worth it. I found a glen of young, skinny birch trees, then stalked in ever-widening circles until I encountered the nearest stream. Not deep, but so wide that I'd have to take a running leap to cross it. Lucien had said to find running water, and this was close enough to make escape possible. If I needed to escape. Hopefully I wouldn't. I traced and then retraced several different routes to the stream. And a few alternate routes, should my access to it somehow be blocked. And when I was sure of every root and rock and hollow in the surrounding area, I returned to the small clearing encircled by those white trees and laid my snare. From my spot up a nearby tree--a sturdy, dense oak whose vibrant leaves hid me entirely from anyone below--I waited. And waited. The afternoon sun crept overhead, hot enough even through the canopy that I had to shrug off my cloak and roll up the sleeves of my tunic. My stomach grumbled, and I pulled a hunk of cheese out of my rucksack. Eating it would be quieter than the apple I'd also swiped from the kitchen on my way out. When I finished it off, I swigged water from the canteen I'd brought, parched from the heat. Did Tamlin or Lucien ever grow tired of day after day of eternal spring, or ever venture into the other territories, if only to experience a different season? I wouldn't have minded endless, mild spring while looking after my family--winter brought us dangerously close to death every year--but if I were immortal, I might want a little variation to pass the time. I'd probably want to do more than lurk about a manor house, too. Though I still hadn't worked up the nerve to make the request that had crept into the back of my mind when I saw the mural. I moved about as much as I dared on the branch, only to keep the blood flowing to my limbs. I'd just settled in again when a ripple of silence came toward me. As if the wood thrushes and squirrels and moths held their breath while something passed by. My bow was already strung. Quietly, I loosely nocked an arrow. Closer and closer the silence crept. The trees seemed to lean in, their entwined branches locking tighter, a living cage keeping even the smallest of birds from soaring out of the canopy. Maybe this had been a very bad idea. Maybe Lucien had overestimated my abilities. Or maybe he had been waiting for the chance to lead me to my doom. My muscles strained from holding still atop the branch, but I kept my balance and listened. Then I heard it: a whisper, as if cloth were dragging over root and stone, a hungry, wheezing sniffing from the nearby clearing. I'd laid my snares carefully, making the chicken look as if it had wandered too far and snapped its own neck as it sought to free itself from a fallen branch. I'd taken care to keep my own scent off the bird as much as possible. But these faeries had such keen senses, and even though I'd covered my tracks-- There was a snap, a whoosh, and a hollowed-out, wicked scream that made my bones and muscles and breath lock up. Another enraged shriek pierced the forest, and my snares groaned as they held, and held, and held. I climbed out of the tree and went to meet the Suriel. Lucien, I decided as I crept up to the faerie in the birch glen, really, truly wanted me dead. I hadn't known what to expect as I entered the ring of white trees--tall and straight as pillars--but it was not the tall, thin veiled figure in dark tattered robes. Its hunched back facing me, I could count the hard knobs of its spine poking through the thin fabric. Spindly, scabby gray arms clawed at the snare with yellowed, cracked fingernails. Run, some primal, intrinsically human part of me whispered. Begged. Run and run and never look back. But I kept my arrow loosely nocked. I said quietly, "Are you one of the Suriel?" The faerie went rigid. And sniffed. Once. Twice. Then slowly, it turned to me, the dark veil draped over its bald head blowing in a phantom breeze. A face that looked like it had been crafted from dried, weatherworn bone, its skin either forgotten or discarded, a lipless mouth and too-long teeth held by blackened gums, slitted holes for nostrils, and eyes ... eyes that were nothing more than swirling pits of milky white--the white of death, the white of sickness, the white of clean-picked corpses. Peeking above the ragged neck of its dark robes was a body of veins and bones, as dried and solid and horrific as the texture of its face. It let go of the snare, and its too-long fingers clicked against each other as it studied me. "Human," it said, and its voice was at once one and many, old and young, beautiful and grotesque. My bowels turned watery. "Did you set this clever, wicked trap for me?" "Are you one of the Suriel?" I asked again, my words scarcely more than a ragged breath. "Indeed I am." Click, click, click went its fingers against each other, one for each word. "Then the trap was for you," I managed. Run, run, run. It remained sitting, its bare, gnarled feet caught in my snares. "I have not seen a human woman for an age. Come closer so I might look upon my captor." I did no such thing. It let out a huffing, awful laugh. "And which of my brethren betrayed my secrets to you?" "None of them. My mother told me stories of you." "Lies--I can smell the lies on your breath." It sniffed again, its fingers clacking together. It cocked its head to the side, an erratic, sharp movement, the dark veil snapping with it. "What would a human woman want from the Suriel?" "You tell me," I said softly. It let out another low laugh. "A test? A foolish and useless test, for if you dared to capture me, then you must want knowledge very badly." I said nothing, and it smiled with that lipless mouth, its grayed teeth horrifically large. "Ask me your questions, human, and then free me." I swallowed hard. "Is there--is there truly no way for me to go home?" "Not unless you seek to be killed, and your family with you. You must remain here." Whatever last shred of hope I'd been clinging to, whatever foolish optimism, shriveled and died. This changed nothing. Before my fight with Tamlin that morning, I hadn't even entertained the idea, anyway. Perhaps I'd only come here out of spite. So, fine--if I was here, facing sure death, then I might as well learn something. "What do you know about Tamlin?" "More specific, human. Be more specific. For I know a good many things about the High Lord of the Spring Court." The earth tilted beneath me. "Tamlin is--Tamlin is a High Lord?" Click, click, click. "You did not know. Interesting." Not just some petty faerie lord of a manor, but ... but a High Lord of one of the seven territories. A High Lord of Prythian. "Did you also not know that this is the Spring Court, little human?" "Yes--yes, I knew about that." The Suriel settled on the ground. "Spring, Summer, Autumn, Winter, Dawn, Day, and Night," it mused, as if I hadn't even answered. "The seven Courts of Prythian, each ruled by a High Lord, all of them deadly in their own way. They are not merely powerful--they are Power." That was why Tamlin had been able to face the Bogge and live. High Lord. I tucked away my fear. "Everyone at the Spring Court is stuck wearing a mask, and yet you aren't," I said cautiously. "Are you not a member of the Court?" "I am a member of no Court. I am older than the High Lords, older than Prythian, older than the bones of this world." Lucien had definitely overestimated my abilities. "And what can be done about this blight that has spread in Prythian, stealing and altering the magic? Where did it come from?" "Stay with the High Lord, human," the Suriel said. "That's all you can do. You will be safe. Do not interfere; do not go looking for answers after today, or you will be devoured by the shadow over Prythian. He will shield you from it, so stay close to him, and all will be righted." That wasn't exactly an answer. I repeated, "Where did the blight come from?" Those milky eyes narrowed. "The High Lord does not know that you came here today, does he? He does not know that his human woman came to trap a Suriel, because he cannot give her the answers she seeks. But it is too late, homan--for the High Lord, for you, perhaps for your realm as well ..." Despite all that it had said, despite its order to stop asking questions and stay with Tamlin, it was his human woman that echoed in my head. That made me clench my teeth. But the Suriel went on. "Across the violent western sea, there is another faerie kingdom called Hybern, ruled by a wicked, powerful king. Yes, a king," he said when I raised a brow. "Not a High Lord--there, his territory is not divided into courts. There, he is law unto himself. Humans no longer exist in that realm--though his throne is made of their bones." That large island I'd seen on the map, the one that hadn't yielded any lands to humans after the Treaty. And--a throne of bones. The cheese I'd eaten turned leaden in my stomach. "For some time now, the King of Hybern has found himself unhappy with the Treaty the other ruling High Fae of the world made with you humans long ago. He resents that he was forced to sign it, to let his mortal slaves go and to remain confined to his damp green isle at the edge of the world. And so, a hundred years ago, he dispatched his most-trusted and loyal commanders, his deadliest warriors, remnants of the ancient armies that he once sailed to the continent to wage such a brutal war against you humans, all of them as hungry and vile as he. As spies and courtiers and lovers, they infiltrated the various High Fae courts and kingdoms and empires around the world for fifty years, and when they had gathered enough information, he made his plan. But nearly five decades ago, one of his commanders disobeyed him. The Deceiver. And--" The Suriel straightened. "We are not alone." I drew my bow farther but kept it pointed at the ground as I scanned the trees. But everything had already gone silent in the presence of the Suriel. "Human, you must free me and run," it said, those death-filled eyes widening. "Run for the High Lord's manor. Do not forget what I told you--stay with the High Lord, and live to see everything righted." "What is it?" If I knew what came, I could stand a better chance of-- "The naga--faeries made of shadow and hate and rot. They heard my scream, and they smelled you. Free me, human. They will cage me if they catch me here. Free me and return to the High Lord's side." Shit. Shit. I lunged for the snare, making to put away my bow and grab my knife. But four shadowy figures slipped through the birch trees, so dark that they seemed made from a starless night. <|title|>Chapter 15 <|startofchapter|>The naga were sprung from a nightmare. Covered in dark scales and nothing more, they were a horrendous combination of serpentine features and male humanoid bodies whose powerful arms ended in polished black, flesh-shredding talons. Here were the creatures of the blood-filled legends, the ones that slipped through the wall to torment and slaughter mortals. The ones I would have been glad to kill that day in the snowy woods. Their huge, almond-shaped eyes greedily took in the Suriel and me. The four of them paused across the clearing, the Suriel between us, and I trained my arrow toward the one in the center. The creature smiled, a row of razor-sharp teeth greeting me as a silvery forked tongue darted out. "The Dark Mother has sent us a gift today, brothers," he said, gazing at the Suriel, who was clawing at the snare now. The naga's amber eyes shifted toward me again. "And a meal." "Not much to eat," another one said, flexing its claws. I began backing away--toward the stream, toward the manor below, keeping my arrow pointed at them. One scream from me would notify Lucien--but my breath was thin. And he might not come at all, if he'd sent me here. I kept every sense fixed on my retreating steps. "Human," the Suriel begged. I had ten arrows--nine, once I fired the one nocked in my bow. None of them ash, but maybe they'd keep the naga down long enough for me to flee. I backed away another step. The four naga crept closer, as if savoring the slowness of the hunt, as if they already knew how I tasted. I had three heartbeats to make up my mind. Three heartbeats to execute my plan. I drew my bowstring back farther, my arm trembling. And then I screamed. Sharp and loud and with every bit of air in my too-tight lungs. With the naga now focused entirely on me, I fired at the tether holding the Suriel in place. The snare shattered. Like a shadow on the wind, the Suriel was off, a blast of dark that set the four naga staggering back. The one closest to me surged toward the Suriel, the strong column of its scaly neck stretching out. No chance of my movements being considered an unprovoked attack anymore--not now that they'd seen my aim. They still wanted to kill me. So I let my arrow fly. The tip glittered like a shooting star through the gloom of the forest. I had all of a blink before it struck home and blood sprayed. The naga toppled back just as the remaining three whirled to me. I didn't know if it was a killing shot. I was already gone. I raced for the stream using the path I'd calculated earlier, not daring to look back. Lucien had said he'd be nearby--but I was deep in the woods, too far from the manor and help. Branches and twigs snapped behind me--too close--and snarls that sounded like nothing I'd heard from Tamlin or Lucien or the wolf or any animal filled the still woods. My only hope of getting away alive lay in outrunning them long enough to reach Lucien, and then only if he was there as he'd promised to be. I didn't let myself think of all the hills I would have to climb once I cleared the forest itself. Or what I would do if Lucien had changed his mind. The crashing through the brush became louder, closer, and I veered to the right, leaping over the stream. Running water might have stopped the Suriel, but a hiss and a thud close behind told me it did nothing to hold the naga at bay. I careened through a thicket, and thorns ripped at my cheeks. I barely felt their stinging kisses or the warm blood sliding down my face. I didn't even have time to wince, not as two dark figures flanked me, closing in to cut me off. My knees groaned as I pushed myself harder, focusing on the growing brightness of the woods' end. But the naga to my right rushed at me, so fast that I could only leap aside to avoid the slashing talons. I stumbled but stayed upright just as the naga on my left pounced. I hurled myself into a stop, swinging my bow up in a wide arc. I nearly lost my grip as it connected with that serpentine face, and bone crunched with a horrific screech. I hurdled over his enormous fallen body, not pausing to look for the others. I made it three feet before the third naga stepped in front of me. I swung my bow at his head. He dodged it. The other two hissed as they came up behind me, and I gripped the bow harder. Surrounded. I turned in a slow circle, bow ready to strike. One of them sniffed at me, those slitted nostrils flaring. "Scrawny human thing," he spat to the others, whose smiles grew sharper. "Do you know what you've cost us?" I wouldn't go down without a fight, without taking some of them with me. "Go to Hell," I said, but it came out in a gasp. They laughed, stepping nearer. I swung the bow at the closest. He dodged it, chuckling. "We'll have our sport--though you might not find it as amusing." I gritted my teeth as I swung again. I would not be hunted down like a deer among wolves. I would find a way out of this; I would-- A black-clawed hand closed around the shaft of my bow, and a resounding snap echoed through the too-silent woods. The air left my chest in a whoosh, and I only had time to half turn before one of them grabbed me by the throat and hurled me to the ground. He pounded my arm so hard against the earth that my bones groaned and my fingers splayed, dropping the remnants of my bow. "When we're done ripping off your skin, you'll wish you hadn't crossed into Prythian," he breathed into my face, the reek of carrion shoving down my throat. I gagged. "We'll cut you up so fine there won't be much for the crows to pick at." A white-hot flame went through me. Rage or terror or wild instinct, I don't know. I didn't think. I grabbed the knife in my boot and slammed it into his leathery neck. Blood rained down onto my face, into my mouth as I bellowed my fury, my terror. The naga slumped back. I scrambled up before the remaining two could pin me, but something rock hard hit my face. I tasted blood and soil and grass as I hit the earth. Stars danced in my vision, and I stumbled to my feet again out of instinct, grabbing for Lucien's hunting knife. Not like this, not like this, not like this. One of them lunged for me, and I dodged aside. His talons caught in my cloak and yanked, ripping it into ribbons just as his companion threw me to the ground, my arms tearing beneath those claws. "You'll bleed," one of them panted, laughing under his breath at the knife I lifted. "We'll bleed you nice and slow." He wiggled his talons--perfect for deep, brutal cutting. He opened his mouth again, and a bone-shattering roar sounded through the clearing. Only it hadn't come from the creature's throat. The noise hadn't finished echoing before the naga went flying off me, crashing into a tree so hard that the wood cracked. I made out the gleaming gold of his mask and hair and the long, deadly claws before Tamlin tore into the creature. The naga holding me shrieked and released his grip, leaping to his feet as Tamlin's claws shredded through his companion's neck. Flesh and blood ripped away. I kept low to the ground, knife at the ready, waiting. Tamlin let out another roar that made the marrow of my bones go cold and revealed those lengthened canines. The remaining creature darted for the woods. He got only a few steps away before Tamlin tackled him, pinning him to the earth. And disemboweled the naga in one deep, long swipe. I remained where I lay, my face half buried in leaves and twigs and moss. I didn't try to raise myself. I was shaking so badly that I thought I would fall apart at the seams. It was all I could do to keep holding the knife. Tamlin got to his feet, wrenching his claws out of the creature's abdomen. Blood and gore dripped from them, staining the deep green moss. High Lord. High Lord. High Lord. Feral rage still smoldered in his gaze, and I flinched as he knelt beside me. He reached for me again, but I jerked back, away from the bloody claws that were still out. I raised myself into a sitting position before the shaking resumed. I knew I couldn't get to my feet. "Feyre," he said. The wrath faded from his eyes, and the claws slipped back under his skin, but the roar still sounded in my ears. There had been nothing in that sound but primal fury. "How?" It was all I could manage to say, but he understood me. "I was tracking a pack of them--these four escaped, and must have followed your scent through the woods. I heard you scream." So he didn't know about the Suriel. And he--he'd come to help me. He reached a hand toward me, and I shuddered as he ran cool, wet fingers down my stinging, aching cheek. Blood--that was blood on them. And from the stickiness on my face, I knew there was already enough blood splattered on me that it wouldn't make a difference. The pain in my face and my arm faded, then vanished. His eyes darkened a bit at the bruise I knew was already blossoming on my cheekbone, but the throbbing quickly lessened. The metallic scent of magic wrapped around me, then floated away on a light breeze. "I found one dead half a mile away," he went on, his hands leaving my face as he unbuckled his baldric, then shucked off his tunic and handed it to me. The front of my own had been ripped and torn by the talons of the naga. "I saw one of my arrows in his throat, so I followed their tracks here." I pulled on Tamlin's tunic over my own, ignoring how easily I could see the cut of his muscles beneath his white shirt, the way the blood soaking it made them stand out even more. A purebred predator, honed to kill without a second thought, without remorse. I shivered again and savored the warmth that leaked from the cloth. High Lord. I should have known, should have guessed. Maybe I hadn't wanted to--maybe I'd been afraid. "Here," he said, rising to his feet and offering me a bloodstained hand. I didn't dare look at the slaughtered naga as I gripped his extended hand and he pulled me to my feet. My knees buckled, but I stayed upright. I stared at our linked hands, both coated in blood that wasn't our own. No, he hadn't been the only one to spill blood just now. And it wasn't just my blood that still coated my tongue. Perhaps that made me as much of a beast as him. But he'd saved me. Killed for me. I spat onto the grass, wishing I hadn't lost my canteen. "Do I want to know what you were doing out here?" he asked. No. Definitely not. Not after he'd warned me plenty of times already. "I thought I wasn't confined to the house and garden. I didn't realize I'd come so far." He dropped my hand. "On the days that I'm called away to deal with ... trouble, stay close to the house." I nodded a bit numbly. "Thank you," I mumbled, fighting past the shaking racking my body, my mind. The naga's blood on me became nearly unbearable. I spat again. "Not-- not just for this. For saving my life, I mean." I wanted to tell him how much that meant-- that the High Lord of the Spring Court thought I was worth saving--but couldn't find the words. His fangs vanished. "It was ... the least I could do. They shouldn't have gotten this far onto my lands." He shook his head, more at himself, his shoulders slumping. "Let's go home," he said, sparing me the effort of explaining why I'd been out here in the first place. I couldn't bring myself to tell him that the manor wasn't my home--that I might not even have a home at all anymore. We walked back in silence, both of us blood-drenched and pale. I could still sense the carnage we'd left behind--the blood-soaked ground and trees. The pieces of the naga. Well, I'd learned something from the Suriel, at least. Even if it wasn't entirely what I'd wanted to hear--or know. Stay with the High Lord. Fine--easy enough. But as for the history lesson it had been in the middle of giving me, about wicked kings and their commanders and however they tied into the High Lord at my side and the blight ... I still didn't have enough specifics to be able to thoroughly warn my family. But the Suriel had told me not to go looking for further answers. I had a feeling I would surely be a fool to ignore his advice. My family would have to make do with the bare bones of my knowledge, then. Hopefully it would be enough. I didn't ask Tamlin anything more about the naga--about how many he'd killed before those four slipped away--didn't ask him anything at all, because I didn't detect a trace of triumph in him, but rather a deep, unending sort of shame and defeat. <|title|>Chapter 16 <|startofchapter|>After soaking in the bath for nearly an hour, I found myself sitting in a low-backed chair before my room's roaring fireplace, savoring the feel of Alis brushing out my damp hair. Though dinner was to be served soon, Alis had a cup of molten chocolate brought up and refused to do anything until I'd had a few sips. It was the best thing I'd ever tasted. I drank from the thick mug as she brushed my hair, nearly purring at the feel of her thin fingers along my scalp. But when the other maids had gone downstairs to help with the evening meal, I lowered my mug into my lap. "If more faeries keep crossing the court borders and attacking, is there going to be a war?" Maybe we should just take a stand--maybe it's time to say enough, Lucien had said to Tamlin that first night. The brush stilled. "Don't ask such questions. You'll call down bad luck." I twisted in my seat, glaring up into her masked face. "Why aren't the other High Lords keeping their subjects in line? Why are these awful creatures allowed to roam wherever they want? Someone--someone began telling me a story about a king in Hybern--" Alis grabbed my shoulder and pivoted me around. "It's none of your concern." "Oh, I think it is." I turned around again, gripping the back of the wooden chair. "If this spills into the human world--if there's war, or this blight poisons our lands ..." I pushed back against the crushing panic. I had to warn my family--had to write to them. Soon. "The less you know, the better. Let Lord Tamlin deal with it--he's the only one who can." The Suriel had said as much. Alis's brown eyes were hard, unforgiving. "You think no one would tell me what you asked the kitchen to give you today, or realize what you went to trap? Foolish, stupid girl. Had the Suriel not been in a benevolent mood, you would have deserved the death it gave you. I don't know what's worse: this, or your idiocy with the puca." "Would you have done anything else? If you had a family--" "I do have a family." I looked her up and down. There was no ring on her finger. Alis noticed my stare and said, "My sister and her mate were murdered nigh on fifty years ago, leaving two younglings behind. Everything I do, everything I work for, is for those boys. So you don't get the right to give me that look and ask me if I would do anything different, girl." "Where are they? Do they live here?" Perhaps that was why there were children's books in the study. Maybe those two small, shining figures in the garden ... maybe that had been them. "No, they don't live here," she said, too sharply. "They are somewhere else--far away." I considered what she said, then cocked my head. "Do faerie children age differently?" If their parents had been killed almost fifty years ago, they could hardly be boys. "Ah, some age like you and can breed as often as rabbits, but there are kinds--like me, like the High Fae--who are rarely able to produce younglings. The ones who are born age quite a bit slower. We all had a shock when my sister conceived the second one only five years later--and the eldest won't even reach adulthood until he's seventy-five. But they're so rare--all our young are--and more precious to us than jewels or gold." She clenched her jaw tightly enough that I knew that was all I would likely get from her. "I didn't mean to question your dedication to them," I said quietly. When she didn't reply, I added, "I understand what you mean--about doing everything for them." Alis's lips thinned, but she said, "The next time that fool Lucien gives you advice on how to trap the Suriel, you come to me. Dead chickens, my sagging ass. All you needed to do was offer it a new robe, and it would have groveled at your feet." By the time I entered the dining room I'd stopped shaking, and some semblance of warmth had returned to my veins. High Lord of Prythian or no, I wouldn't cower--not after what I'd been through today. Lucien and Tamlin were already waiting for me at the table. "Good evening," I said, moving to my usual seat. Lucien cocked his head in a silent inquiry, and I gave him a subtle nod as I sat. His secret was still safe, though he deserved to be walloped for sending me so unprepared to the Suriel. Lucien slouched a bit in his chair. "I heard you two had a rather exciting afternoon. I wish I could have been there to help." A hidden, perhaps halfhearted apology, but I gave him another little nod. He said with forced lightness, "Well, you still look lovely, regardless of your Hell-sent afternoon." I snorted. I'd never looked lovely a day in my life. "I thought faeries couldn't lie." Tamlin choked on his wine, but Lucien grinned, that scar stark and brutal. "Who told you that?" "Everyone knows it," I said, piling food on my plate even as I began wondering about everything they'd said to me so far, every statement I'd accepted as pure truth. Lucien leaned back in his chair, smiling with feline delight. "Of course we can lie. We find lying to be an art. And we lied when we told those ancient mortals that we couldn't speak an untruth. How else would we get them to trust us and do our bidding?" My mouth became a thin, tight line. He was telling the truth--because if he was lying ... The logic of it made my head spin. "Iron?" I managed to say. "Doesn't do us a lick of harm. Only ash, as you well know." My face warmed. I'd taken everything they said as truth. Perhaps the Suriel had been lying today, too, with that long-winded explanation about the politics of the faerie realms. About staying with the High Lord, and everything being fixed in the end. I looked to Tamlin. High Lord. That wasn't a lie--I could feel its truth in my bones. Even though he didn't act like the High Lords of legend who had sacrificed virgins and slaughtered humans at will. No--Tamlin was ... exactly as those fanatic, calf-eyed Children of the Blessed had depicted the bounties and comforts of Prythian. "Even though Lucien revealed some of our closely guarded secrets," Tamlin said, throwing the last word at his companion with a growl, "we've never used your misinformation against you." His gaze met mine. "We never willingly lied to you." I managed a nod and took a long sip of water. I ate in silence, so busy trying to decipher every word I'd overheard since arriving that I didn't realize when Lucien excused himself before dessert. I was left alone with the most dangerous being I'd ever encountered. The walls of the room pressed in on me. "Are you feeling ... better?" Though he had his chin propped on a fist, concern--and perhaps surprise at that concern--shone in his eyes. I swallowed hard. "If I never encounter a naga again, I'll consider myself fortunate." "What were you doing out in the western woods?" Truth or lie, lie or truth ... both. "I heard a legend once about a creature who answers your questions, if you can catch it." Tamlin flinched as his claws shot out, slicing his face. But the wounds closed as soon as they opened, leaving only a smear of blood running down his golden skin--which he wiped away with the back of his sleeve. "You went to catch the Suriel." "I caught the Suriel," I corrected. "And did it tell you what you wanted to know?" I wasn't sure he was breathing. "We were interrupted by the naga before it could tell me anything worthwhile." His mouth tightened. "I'd start shouting, but I think today was punishment enough." He shook his head. "You actually snared the Suriel. A human girl." Despite myself, despite the afternoon, my lips twitched upward. "Is it supposed to be hard?" He chuckled, then fished something out of his pocket. "Well, if I'm lucky, I won't have to trap the Suriel to learn what this is about." He lifted my crumpled list of words. My heart dropped to my stomach. "It's ..." I couldn't think of a suitable lie-- everything was absurd. "Unusual? Queue? Slaying? Conflagration?" He read the list. I wanted to curl up and die. Words I couldn't recognize from the books--words that now seemed so simple, so absurdly easy as he was saying them aloud. "Is this a poem about murdering me and then burning my body?" My throat closed up, and I had to clench my hands into fists to keep from hiding my face behind them. "Good night," I said, barely more than a whisper, and stood on shaking knees. I was nearly to the door when he spoke again. "You love them very much, don't you?" I half turned to him. His green eyes met mine as he rose from his chair to walk to me. He stopped a respectable distance away. The list of malformed words was still clutched in his hand. "I wonder if your family realizes it," he murmured. "That everything you've done wasn't about that promise to your mother, or for your sake, but for theirs." I said nothing, not trusting my voice to keep my shame hidden. "I know--I know that when I said it earlier, it didn't come out well, but I could help you write--" "Leave me alone," I said. I was almost through the door when I ran into someone--into him. I stumbled back a step. I'd forgotten how fast he was. "I'm not insulting you." His quiet voice made it all the worse. "I don't need your help." "Clearly not," he said with a half smile. But the smile faded. "A human who can take down a faerie in a wolf's skin, who ensnared the Suriel and killed two naga on her own ..." He choked on a laugh, and shook his head. The firelight danced along his mask. "They're fools. Fools for not seeing it." He winced. But his eyes held no mischief. "Here," he said, extending the list of words. I shoved it into my pocket. I turned, but he gently grabbed my arm. "You gave up so much for them." He lifted his other hand as if to brush my cheek. I braced myself for the touch, but he lowered it before making contact. "Do you even know how to laugh?" I shook off his arm, unable to stop the angry words. High Lord be damned. "I don't want your pity." His jade eyes were so bright I couldn't look away. "What about a friend?" "Can faeries be friends with mortals?" "Five hundred years ago, enough faeries were friends with mortals that they went to war on their behalf." "What?" I'd never heard that before. And it hadn't been in that mural in the study. "How do you think the human armies survived as long as they did, and did such damage that my kind even came to agree to a treaty? With ash weapons alone? There were faeries who fought and died at the humans' sides for their freedom, and who mourned when the only solution was to separate our peoples." "Were you one of them?" "I was a child at the time, too young to understand what was happening--or even to be told," he said. A child. Which meant he had to be over ... "But had I been old enough, I would have. Against slavery, against tyranny, I would gladly go to my death, no matter whose freedom I was defending." I wasn't sure if I would do the same. My priority would be to protect my family--and I would have picked whatever side could keep them safest. I hadn't thought of it as a weakness until now. "For what it's worth," Tamlin said, "your family knows you're safe. They have no memory of a beast bursting into their cottage, and think a long-lost, very wealthy aunt called you away to aid her on her deathbed. They know you're alive, and fed, and cared for. But they also know that there have been rumors of a ... threat in Prythian, and are prepared to run should any of the warning signs about the wall faltering occur." "You--you altered their memories?" I took a step back. Faerie arrogance, such faerie arrogance to change our minds, to implant thoughts as if it wasn't a violation-- "Glamoured their memories--like putting a veil over them. I was afraid your father might come after you, or persuade some villagers to cross the wall with him and further violate the Treaty." And they all would have died anyway, once they ran into things like the puca or the Bogge or the naga. A silence blanketed my mind, until I was so exhausted I could barely think, and couldn't stop myself from saying, "You don't know him. My father wouldn't have bothered to do either." Tamlin looked at me for a long moment. "Yes, he would have." But he wouldn't--not with that twisted knee. Not with it as an excuse. I'd realized that the moment the puca's illusion had been ripped away. Fed, comfortable, and safe--they'd even been warned about the blight, whether they understood that warning or not. His eyes were open, honest. He had gone farther than I would have ever guessed toward assuaging my every concern. "You truly warned them about--the possible threat?" A grave nod. "Not an outright warning, but ... it's woven into the glamour on their memories--along with an order to run at the first sign of something being amiss." Faerie arrogance, but ... but he had done more than I could. My family might have ignored my letter entirely. Had I known he possessed those abilities, I might have even asked the High Lord to glamour their memories if he hadn't done it himself. I truly had nothing to fret about, save for the fact that they'd probably forget me sooner than expected. I couldn't entirely blame them. My vow fulfilled, my task complete--what was left for me? The firelight danced on his mask, warming the gold, setting the emeralds glinting. Such color and variation--colors I didn't know the names of, colors I wanted to catalog and weave together. Colors I had no reason not to explore now. "Paint," I said, barely more than a breath. He cocked his head and I swallowed, squaring my shoulders. "If--if it's not too much to ask, I'd like some paint. And brushes." Tamlin blinked. "You like--art? You like to paint?" His stumbling words weren't unkind. It was enough for me to say, "Yes. I'm not--not any good, but if it's not too much trouble ... I'll paint outside, so I don't make a mess, but "Outside, inside, on the roof--paint wherever you want. I don't care," he said. "But if you need paint and brushes, you'll also need paper and canvas." "I can work--help around the kitchen or in the gardens--to pay for it." "You'd be more of a hindrance. It might take a few days to track them down, but the paint, the brushes, the canvas, and the space are yours. Work wherever you want. This house is too clean, anyway." "Thank you--I mean it, truly. Thank you." "Of course." I turned, but he spoke again. "Have you seen the gallery?" I blurted, "There's a gallery in this house?" He grinned--actually grinned, the High Lord of the Spring Court. "I had it closed off when I inherited this place." When he inherited a title he seemed to have little joy in holding. "It seemed like a waste of time to have the servants keep it cleaned." Of course it would, to a trained warrior. He went on. "I'm busy tomorrow, and the gallery needs to be cleaned up, so ... the next day--let me show it to you the next day." He rubbed at his neck, faint color creeping into those cheeks of his--more alive and warm than I'd yet seen them. "Please--it would be my pleasure." And I believed him that it would. I nodded dumbly. If the paintings along the halls were exquisite, then the ones selected for the gallery had to be beyond my human imaginings. "I would like that--very much." He smiled at me still, broadly and without restraint or hesitation. Isaac had never smiled at me like that. Isaac had never made my breath catch, just a little bit. The feeling was startling enough that I walked out, grasping the crumpled paper in my pocket as if doing so could somehow keep that answering smile from tugging on my lips. <|title|>Chapter 17 <|startofchapter|>I jerked awake in the middle of the night, panting. My dreams had been filled with the clicking of the Suriel's bone-fingers, the grinning naga, and a pale, faceless woman dragging her bloodred nails across my throat, splitting me open bit by bit. She kept asking for my name, but every time I tried to speak, my blood bubbled out of the shallow wounds on my neck, choking me. I ran my hands through my sweat-damp hair. As my panting eased, a different sound filled the air, creeping in from the front hall through the crack beneath the door. Shouts, and someone's screams. I was out of my bed in a heartbeat. The shouts weren't aggressive, but rather commanding--organizing. But the screaming ... Every hair on my body stood upright as I flung open the door. I might have stayed and cowered, but I'd heard screams like that before, in the forest at home, when I didn't make a Clean kill and the animals suffered. I couldn't stand it. And I had to know. I reached the top of the grand staircase in time to see the front doors of the manor bang open and Tamlin rush in, a screaming faerie slung over his shoulder. The faerie was almost as big as Tamlin, and yet the High Lord carried him as if he were no more than a sack of grain. Another species of the lesser faeries, with his blue skin, gangly limbs, pointed ears, and long onyx hair. But even from atop the stairs, I could see the blood gushing down the faerie's back--blood from the black stumps protruding from his shoulder blades. Blood that now soaked into Tamlin's green tunic in deep, shining splotches. One of the knives from his baldric was missing. Lucien rushed into the foyer below just as Tamlin shouted, "The table--clear it off!" Lucien shoved the vase of flowers off the long table in the center of the hall. Either Tamlin wasn't thinking straight, or he'd been afraid to waste the extra minutes bringing the faerie to the infirmary. Shattering glass set my feet moving, and I was halfway down the stairs before Tamlin eased the shrieking faerie face-first onto the table. The faerie wasn't wearing a mask; there was nothing to hide the agony contorting his long, unearthly features. "Scouts found him dumped just over the borderline," Tamlin explained to Lucien, but his eyes darted to me. They flashed with warning, but I took another step down. He said to Lucien, "He's Summer Court." "By the Cauldron," Lucien said, surveying the damage. "My wings," the faerie choked out, his glossy black eyes wide and staring at nothing. "She took my wings." Again, that nameless she who haunted their lives. If she wasn't ruling the Spring Court, then perhaps she ruled another. Tamlin flicked a hand, and steaming water and bandages just appeared on the table. My mouth dried up, but I reached the bottom of the stairs and kept walking toward the table and the death that was surely hovering in this hall. "She took my wings," said the faerie. "She took my wings," he repeated, clutching the edge of the table with spindly blue fingers. Tamlin murmured a soft, wordless sound--gentle in a way I hadn't heard before--and picked up a rag to dunk in the water. I took up a spot across the table from Tamlin, and the breath whooshed from my chest as I beheld the damage. Whoever she was, she hadn't just taken his wings. She'd ripped them off. Blood oozed from the black velvety stumps on the faerie's back. The wounds were jagged--cartilage and tissue severed in what looked like uneven cuts. As if she'd sawed off his wings bit by bit. "She took my wings," the faerie said again, his voice breaking. As he trembled, shock taking over, his skin shimmered with veins of pure gold--iridescent, like a blue butterfly. "Keep still," Tamlin ordered, wringing the rag. "You'll bleed out faster." "N-n-no," the faerie started, and began to twist onto his back, away from Tamlin, from the pain that was surely coming when that rag touched those raw stumps. It was instinct, or mercy, or desperation, perhaps, to grab the faerie's upper arms and shove him down again, pinning him to the table as gently as I could. He thrashed, strong enough that I had to concentrate solely on holding him. His skin was velvet-smooth and slippery, a texture I would never be able to paint, not even if I had eternity to master it. But I pushed against him, gritting my teeth and willing him to stop. I looked to Lucien, but the color had blanched from his face, leaving a sickly white-green in its wake. "Lucien," Tamlin said--a quiet command. But Lucien kept gaping at the faerie's ruined back, at the stumps, his metal eye narrowing and widening, narrowing and widening. He backed up a step. And another. And then vomited in a potted plant before sprinting from the room. The faerie twisted again and I held tight, my arms shaking with the effort. His injuries must have weakened him greatly if I could keep him pinned. "Please," I breathed. "Please hold still." "She took my wings," the faerie sobbed. "She took them." "I know," I murmured, my fingers aching. "I know." Tamlin touched the rag to one of the stumps, and the faerie screamed so loudly that my senses guttered, sending me staggering back. He tried to rise but his arms buckled, and he collapsed face-first onto the table again. Blood gushed--so fast and bright that it took me a heartbeat to realize that a wound like this required a tourniquet--and that the faerie had lost far too much blood for it to even make a difference. It poured down his back and onto the table, where it ran to the edge and drip-drip-dripped to the floor near my feet. I found Tamlin's eyes on me. "The wounds aren't clotting," he said under his breath as the faerie panted. "Can't you use your magic?" I asked, wishing I could rip that mask off his face and see his full expression. Tamlin swallowed hard. "No. Not for major damage. Once, but not any longer." The faerie on the table whimpered, his panting slowing. "She took my wings," he whispered. Tamlin's green eyes flickered, and I knew, right then, that the faerie was going to die. Death wasn't just hovering in this hall; it was counting down the faerie's remaining heartbeats. I took one of the faerie's hands in mine. The skin there was almost leathery, and, perhaps more out of reflex than anything, his long fingers wrapped around mine, covering them completely. "She took my wings," he said again, his shaking subsiding a bit. I brushed the long, damp hair from the faerie's half-turned face, revealing a pointed nose and a mouth full of sharp teeth. His dark eyes shifted to mine, beseeching, pleading. "It will be all right," I said, and hoped he couldn't smell lies the way the Suriel was able to. I stroked his limp hair, its texture like liquid night--another I would never be able to paint but would try to, perhaps forever. "It will be all right." The faerie closed his eyes, and I tightened my grip on his hand. Something wet touched my feet, and I didn't need to look down to see that his blood had pooled around me. "My wings," the faerie whispered. "You'll get them back." The faerie struggled to open his eyes. "You swear?" "Yes," I breathed. The faerie managed a slight smile and closed his eyes again. My mouth trembled. I wished for something else to say, something more to offer him than my empty promises. The first false vow I'd ever sworn. But Tamlin began speaking, and I glanced up to see him take the faerie's other hand. "Cauldron save you," he said, reciting the words of a prayer that was probably older than the mortal realm. "Mother hold you. Pass through the gates, and smell that immortal land of milk and honey. Fear no evil. Feel no pain." Tamlin's voice wavered, but he finished. "Go, and enter eternity." The faerie heaved one final sigh, and his hand went limp in mine. I didn't let go, though, and kept stroking his hair, even when Tamlin released him and took a few steps from the table. I could feel Tamlin's eyes on me, but I wouldn't let go. I didn't know how long it took for a soul to fade from the body. I stood in the puddle of blood until it grew cold, holding the faerie's spindly hand and stroking his hair, wondering if he knew I'd lied when I'd sworn he would get his wings back, wondering if, wherever he had now gone, he had gotten them back. A clock chimed somewhere in the house, and Tamlin gripped my shoulder. I hadn't realized how cold I'd become until the heat of his hand warmed me through my nightgown. "He's gone. Let him go." I studied the faerie's face--so unearthly, so inhuman. Who could be so cruel to hurt him like that? "Feyre," Tamlin said, squeezing my shoulder. I brushed the faerie's hair behind his long, pointed ear, wishing I'd known his name, and let go. Tamlin led me up the stairs, neither of us caring about the bloody footprints I left behind or the freezing blood soaking the front of my nightgown. I paused at the top of the steps, though, twisting out of his grip, and gazed at the table in the foyer below. "We can't leave him there," I said, making to step down. Tamlin caught my elbow. "I know," he said, the words so drained and weary. "I was going to walk you upstairs first." Before he buried him. "I want to go with you." "It's too deadly at night for you to--" "I can hold my--" "No," he said, his green eyes flashing. I straightened, but he sighed, his shoulders curving inward. "I must do this. Alone." His head was bowed. No claws, no fangs--there was nothing to be done against this enemy, this fate. No one for him to fight. So I nodded, because I would have wanted to do it alone, too, and turned toward my bedroom. Tamlin remained at the top of the stairs. "Feyre," he said--softly enough that I faced him again. "Why?" He tilted his head to the side. "You dislike our kind on a good day. And after Andras ..." Even in the darkened hallway, his usually bright eyes were shadowed. "So why?" I took a step closer to him, my blood-covered feet sticking to the rug. I glanced down the stairs to where I could still see the prone form of the faerie and the stumps of his wings. "Because I wouldn't want to die alone," I said, and my voice wobbled as I looked at Tamlin again, forcing myself to meet his stare. "Because I'd want someone to hold my hand until the end, and awhile after that. That's something everyone deserves, human or faerie." I swallowed hard, my throat painfully tight. "I regret what I did to Andras," I said, the words so strangled they were no more than a whisper. "I regret that there was ... such hate in my heart. I wish I could undo it--and ... I'm sorry. So very sorry." I couldn't remember the last time--if ever--I'd spoken to anyone like that. But he just nodded and turned away, and I wondered if I should say more, if I should kneel and beg for his forgiveness. If he felt such grief, such guilt, over a stranger, then Andras ... By the time I opened my mouth, he was already down the steps. I watched him--watched every movement he made, the muscles of his body visible through that blood-soaked tunic, watched that invisible weight bearing down on his shoulders. He didn't look at me as he scooped up the broken body and carried it to the garden doors beyond my line of sight. I went to the window at the top of the stairs, watching as Tamlin carried the faerie through the moonlit garden and into the rolling fields beyond. He never once glanced back. <|title|>Chapter 18 <|startofchapter|>The next day, the blood of the faerie had been cleaned up by the time I ate, washed, and dressed. I'd taken my time in the morning, and it was nearly noon as I stood atop the staircase, peering down at the entry hall below. Just to make sure it was gone. I'd been set on finding Tamlin and explaining--truly explaining--how sorry I was about Andras. If I was supposed to stay here, stay with him, then I could at least attempt to repair what I'd ruined. I glanced to the large window behind me, the view so sweeping that I could see all the way to the reflecting pool beyond the garden. The water was still enough that the vibrant sky and fat, puffy clouds above were flawlessly reflected. Asking about them seemed vulgar after last night, but maybe--maybe once those paints and brushes did arrive, I could venture to the pool to capture it. I might have remained staring out toward that smear of color and light and texture had Tamlin and Lucien not emerged from another wing of the manor, discussing some border patrol or another. They fell silent as I came down the stairs, and Lucien strode right out the front door without so much as a good morning--just a casual wave. Not a vicious gesture, but he clearly had no intention of joining the conversation that Tamlin and I were about to have. I glanced around, hoping for any sign of those paints, but Tam pointed to the open front doors through which Lucien had exited. Beyond them, I could see both of our horses, already saddled and waiting. Lucien was already climbing into the saddle of a third horse. I turned to Tamlin. Stay with him; he will keep me safe, and things will get better. Fine. I could do that. "Where are we going?" My words were half-mumbled. "Your supplies won't arrive until tomorrow, and the gallery's being cleaned, and my ... meeting was postponed." Was he rambling? "I thought we'd go for a ride--no killing involved. Or naga to worry about." Even as he finished with a half smile, sorrow flickered in his eyes. Indeed, I'd had enough death in the past two days. Enough of killing faeries. Killing anything. No weapons were sheathed at his side or on his baldric--but a knife hilt glinted at his boot. Where had he buried that faerie? A High Lord digging a grave for a stranger. I might not have believed it if I'd been told, might not have believed it if he hadn't offered me sanctuary rather than death. "Where to?" I asked. He only smiled. I couldn't come up with any words when we arrived--and knew that even if I had been able to paint it, nothing would have done it justice. It wasn't simply that it was the most beautiful place I'd ever been to, or that it filled me with both longing and mirth, but it just seemed ... right. As if the colors and lights and patterns of the world had come together to form one perfect place--one true bit of beauty. After last night, it was exactly where I needed to be. We sat atop a grassy knoll, overlooking a glade of oaks so wide and high they could have been the pillars and spires of an ancient castle. Shimmering tufts of dandelion fluff drifted by, and the floor of the clearing was carpeted with swaying crocuses and snowdrops and bluebells. It was an hour or two past noon by the time we arrived, but the light was thick and golden. Though the three of us were alone, I could have sworn I heard singing. I hugged my knees and drank in the glen. "We brought a blanket," Tamlin said, and I looked over my shoulder to see him jerk his chin to the purple blanket they'd laid out a few feet away. Lucien plopped down onto it and stretched his legs. Tamlin remained standing, waiting for my response. I shook my head and faced forward, tracing my hand through the feather-soft grass, cataloging its color and texture. I'd never felt grass like it, and I certainly wasn't going to ruin the experience by sitting on a blanket. Rushed whispers were exchanged behind me, and before I could turn around to investigate, Tamlin took a seat at my side. His jaw was clenched tight enough that I stared ahead. "What is this place?" I said, still running my fingers through the grass. Out of the corner of my eye, Tamlin was no more than a glittering golden figure. "Just a glen." Behind us, Lucien snorted. "Do you like it?" Tamlin asked quickly. The green of his eyes matched the grass between my fingers, and the amber flecks were like the shafts of sunlight that streamed through the trees. Even his mask, odd and foreign, seemed to fit into the glen--as if this place had been fashioned for him alone. I could picture him here in his beast form, curled up in the grass, dozing. "What?" I said. I'd forgotten his question. "Do you like it?" he repeated, and his lips tugged into a smile. I took an uneven breath and stared at the glen again. "Yes." He chuckled. "That's it? 'Yes'?" "Would you like me to grovel with gratitude for bringing me here, High Lord?" "Ah. The Suriel told you nothing important, did it?" That smile of his sparked something bold in my chest. "He also said that you like being brushed, and if I'm a clever girl, I might train you with treats." Tamlin tipped his head to the sky and roared with laughter. Despite myself, I let out a soft laugh. "I might die of surprise," Lucien said behind me. "You made a joke, Feyre." I turned to look at him with a cool smile. "You don't want to know what the Suriel said about you." I flicked my brows up, and Lucien lifted his hands in defeat. "I'd pay good money to hear what the Suriel thinks of Lucien," 'Tamlin said. A cork popped, followed by the sounds of Lucien chugging the bottle's contents and chuckling with a muttered "Brushed." Tamlin's eyes were still bright with laughter as he put a hand at my elbow, pulling me to my feet. "Come on," he said, jerking his head down the hill to the little stream that ran along its base. "I want to show you something." I got to my feet, but Lucien remained sitting on the blanket and lifted the bottle of wine in salute. He took a slug from it as he sprawled on his back and gazed at the green canopy. Each of Tamlin's movements was precise and efficient, his powerfully muscled legs eating up the earth as we wove between the towering trees, hopped over tiny brooks, and clambered up steep knolls. We stopped atop a mound, and my hands slackened at my sides. There, in a clearing surrounded by towering trees, lay a sparkling silver pool. Even from a distance, I could tell that it wasn't water, but something more rare and infinitely more precious. Tamlin grasped my wrist and tugged me down the hill, his callused fingers gently scraping against my skin. He let go of me to leap over the root of the tree in a single maneuver and prowled to the water's edge. I could only grind my teeth as I stumbled after him, heaving myself over the root. He crouched by the pool and cupped his hand to fill it. He tilted his hand, letting the water fall. "Have a look." The silvery sparkling water that dribbled from his hand set ripples dancing across the pool, each glimmering with various colors, and--"That looks like starlight," I breathed. He huffed a laugh, filling and emptying his hand again. I gaped at the glittering water. "It is starlight." "That's impossible," I said, fighting the urge to take a step toward the water. "This is Prythian. According to your legends, nothing is impossible." "How?" I asked, unable to take my eyes from the pool--the silver, but also the blue and red and pink and yellow glinting beneath, the lightness of it ... "I don't know--I never asked, and no one ever explained." When I continued gaping at the pool, he laughed, drawing away my attention--only for me to find him unbuttoning his tunic. "Jump in," he said, the invitation dancing in his eyes. A swim--unclothed, alone. With a High Lord. I shook my head, falling back a step. His fingers paused at the second button from his collar. "Don't you want to know what it's like?" I didn't know what he meant: swimming in starlight, or swimming with him. "I--no." "All right." He left his tunic unbuttoned. There was only bare, muscled, golden skin beneath. "Why this place?" I asked, tearing my eyes away from his chest. "This was my favorite haunt as a boy." "Which was when?" I couldn't stop the question from coming out. He cut a glance in my direction. "A very long time ago." He said it so quietly that it made me shift on my feet. A very long time ago indeed, if he'd been a boy during the War. Well, I'd started down that road, so I ventured to ask, "Is Lucien all right? After last night, I mean." He seemed back to his usual snide, irreverent self, but he'd vomited at the sight of that dying faerie. "He ... didn't react well." Tamlin shrugged, but his words were soft as he said, "Lucien ... Lucien has endured things that make times like last night ... difficult. Not just the scar and the eye--though I bet last night brought back memories of that, too." Tamlin rubbed at his neck, then met my stare. Such an ancient heaviness in his eyes, in the set of his jaw. "Lucien is the youngest son of the High Lord of the Autumn Court." I straightened. "The youngest of seven brothers. The Autumn Court is ... cutthroat. Beautiful, but his brothers see each other only as competition, since the strongest of them will inherit the title, not the eldest. It is the same throughout Prythian, at every court. Lucien never cared about it, never expected to be crowned High Lord, so he spent his youth doing everything a High Lord's son probably shouldn't: wandering the courts, making friends with the sons of other High Lords"--a faint gleam in Tamlin's eyes at that --'"and being with females who were a far cry from the nobility of the Autumn Court." Tamlin paused for a moment, and I could almost feel the sorrow before he said, "Lucien fell in love with a faerie whom his father considered to be grossly inappropriate for someone of his bloodline. Lucien said he didn't care that she wasn't one of the High Fae, that he was certain the mating bond would snap into place soon and that he was going to marry her and leave his father's court to his scheming brothers." A tight sigh. "His father had her put down. Executed, in front of Lucien, as his two eldest brothers held him and made him watch." My stomach turned, and I pushed a hand against my chest. I couldn't imagine, couldn't comprehend that sort of loss. "Lucien left. He cursed his father, abandoned his title and the Autumn Court, and walked out. And without his title protecting him, his brothers thought to eliminate one more contender to the High Lord's crown. Three of them went out to kill him; one came back." "Lucien ... killed them?" "He killed one," Tamlin said. "I killed the other, as they had crossed into my territory, and I was now High Lord and could do what I wanted with trespassers threatening the peace of my lands." A cold, brutal statement. "I claimed Lucien as my own--named him emissary, since he'd already made many friends across the courts and had always been good at talking to people, while I ... can find it difficult. He's been here ever since." "As emissary," I began, "has he ever had dealings with his father? Or his brothers?" "Yes. His father has never apologized, and his brothers are too frightened of me to risk harming him." No arrogance in those words, just icy truth. "But he has never forgotten what they did to her, or what his brothers tried to do to him. Even if he pretends that he has." It didn't quite excuse everything Lucien had said and done to me, but ... I understood now. I could understand the walls and barriers he had no doubt constructed around himself. My chest was too tight, too small to fit the ache building in it. I looked at the pool of glittering starlight and let out a heavy breath. I needed to change the subject. "What would happen if I were to drink the water?" Tamlin straightened a bit--then relaxed, as if glad to release that old sadness. "Legend claims you'd be happy until your last breath." He added, "Perhaps we both need a glass." "I don't think that entire pool would be enough for me," I said, and he laughed. "Two jokes in one day--a miracle sent from the Cauldron," he said. I cracked a smile. He came a step closer, as if forcibly leaving behind the dark, sad stain of what had happened to Lucien, and the starlight danced in his eyes as he said, "What would be enough to make you happy?" I blushed from my neck to the top of my head. "I--I don't know." It was true--I'd never given that sort of thing any thought beyond getting my sisters safely married off and having enough food for me and my father, and time to learn to paint. "Hmm," he said, not stepping away. "What about the ringing of bluebells? Or a ribbon of sunshine? Or a garland of moonlight?" He grinned wickedly. High Lord of Prythian indeed. High Lord of Foolery was more like it. And he knew-- he knew I'd say no, that I'd squirm a bit from merely being alone with him. No. I wouldn't let him have the satisfaction of embarrassing me. I'd had enough of that lately, enough of ... of that girl encased in ice and bitterness. So I gave him a sweet smile, doing my best to pretend that my stomach wasn't flipping over itself. "A swim sounds delightful." I didn't allow myself room for second-guessing. And I took no small amount of pride in the fact that my fingers didn't tremble once as I removed my boots, then unbuttoned my tunic and pants and shucked them onto the grass. My undergarments were modest enough that I wasn't showing much, but I still looked straight at him as I stood on the grassy bank. The air was warm and mild, and a soft breeze kissed its way across my bare stomach. Slowly, so slowly, his eyes roved down, then up. As if he were studying every inch, every curve of me. And even though I wore my ivory underthings, that gaze alone stripped me bare. His eyes met mine and he gave me a lazy smile before removing his clothes. Button by button. I could have sworn the gleam in his eyes turned hungry and feral--enough so that I had to look anywhere but at his face. I let myself indulge in the glimpse of a broad chest, arms corded with muscle, and long, strong legs before I walked right into that pool. He wasn't built like Isaac, whose body had very much still been in that gangly place between boy and man. No--Tamlin's glorious body was honed by centuries of fighting and brutality. The liquid was delightfully warm, and I strode in until it was deep enough to swim out a few strokes and casually tread in place. Not water, but something smoother, thicker. Not oil, but something purer, thinner. Like being wrapped in warm silk. I was so busy savoring the tug of my fingers through the silvery substance that I didn't notice him until he was treading beside me. "Who taught you to swim?" he asked, and dunked his head under the surface. When he came up, he was grinning, sparkling streams of starlight running along the contours of his mask. I didn't go under, didn't quite know if he'd been joking about the water making me mirthful if I drank it. "When I was twelve, I watched the village children swimming at a pond and figured it out myself." It had been one of the most terrifying experiences of my life, and I'd swallowed half the pond in the process, but I'd gotten the gist of it, managed to conquer my blind panic and terror and trust myself. Knowing how to swim had seemed like a vital ability--one that might someday mean the difference between life and death. I'd never expected it would lead to this, though. He went under again, and when he emerged, he ran a hand through his golden hair. "How did your father lose his fortune?" "How'd you know about that?" Tamlin snorted. "I don't think born peasants have your kind of diction." Some part of me wanted to come up with a comment about snobbery, but ... well, he was right, and I couldn't blame him for being a skilled observer. "My father was called the Prince of Merchants," I said plainly, treading that silky, strange water. I hardly had to put any effort into it--the water was so warm, so light, that it felt as if I were floating in air, every ache in my body oozing away into nothing. "But that title, which he'd inherited from his father, and his father before that, was a lie. We were just a good name that masked three generations of bad debts. My father had been trying to find a way to ease those debts for years, and when he found an opportunity to pay them off, he took it, regardless of the risks." I swallowed. "Eight years ago, he amassed our wealth on three ships to sail to Bharat for invaluable spices and cloth." Tamlin frowned. "Risky indeed. Those waters are a death trap, unless you go the long way. "Well, he didn't go the long way. It would have taken too much time, and our creditors were breathing down his neck. So he risked sending the ships directly to Bharat. They never reached Bharat's shores." I tipped my hair back in the water, clearing the memory of my father's face the day that news arrived of the sinking. "When the ships sank, the creditors circled him like wolves. They ripped him apart until there was nothing left of him but a broken name and a few gold pieces to purchase that cottage. I was eleven. My father ... he just stopped trying after that." I couldn't bring myself to mention that final, ugly moment when that other creditor had come with his cronies to wreck my father's leg. "That's when you started hunting?" "No; even though we moved to the cottage, it took almost three years for the money to entirely run out," I said. "I started hunting when I was fourteen." His eyes twinkled--no trace of the warrior forced to accept a High Lord's burden. "And here you are. What else did you figure out for yourself?" Maybe it was the enchanted pool, or maybe it was the genuine interest behind the question, but I smiled and told him about those years in the woods. Tired but surprisingly content from a few hours of swimming and eating and lounging in the glen, I eyed Lucien as we rode back to the manor that afternoon. We were crossing a broad meadow of new spring grass when he caught me glancing at him for the tenth time, and I braced myself as he fell back from Tamlin's side. The metal eye narrowed on me while the other remained wary, unimpressed. "Yes?" That was enough to persuade me not to say anything about his past. I would hate pity, too. And he didn't know me--not well enough to warrant anything but resentment if I brought it up, even if it weighed on me to know it, to grieve for him. I waited until Tamlin was far enough ahead that even his High Fae hearing might not pick up on my words. "I never got to thank you for your advice with the Suriel." Lucien tensed. "Oh?" I looked ahead at the easy way Tamlin rode, the horse utterly unbothered by his mighty rider. "If you still want me dead," I said, "you might have to try a bit harder." Lucien loosed a breath. "That's not what I intended." I gave him a long look. "I wouldn't shed any tears," he amended. I knew it was true. "But what happened to you--" "I was joking," I said, and gave him a little smile. "You can't possibly forgive me that easily for sending you into danger." "No. And part of me would like nothing more than to wallop you for your lack of warning about the Suriel. But I understand: I'm a human who killed your friend, who now lives in your house, and you have to deal with me. I understand," I said again. He was quiet for long enough that I thought he wouldn't reply. Just as I was about to move ahead, he spoke. "Tam told me that your first shot was to save the Suriel's life. Not your own." "It seemed like the right thing to do." The look he gave me was more contemplative than any he'd given me before. "I know far too many High Fae and lesser faeries who wouldn't have seen it that way--or bothered." He reached for something at his side and tossed it to me. I had to fight to stay in the saddle as I fumbled for it--a jeweled hunting knife. "I heard you scream," he said as I examined the blade in my hands. I'd never held one so finely crafted, so perfectly balanced. "And I hesitated. Not long, but I hesitated before I came running. Even though Tam got there in time, I still broke my word in those seconds I waited." He jerked his chin at the knife. "It's yours. Don't bury it in my back, please." <|title|>Chapter 19 <|startofchapter|>The next morning, my paint and supplies arrived from wherever Tamlin or the servants had dug them up, but before Tamlin let me see them, he brought me down hall after hall until we were in a wing of the house I'd never been to, even in my nocturnal exploring. I knew where we were going without his having to say. The marble floors shone so brightly that they had to have been freshly mopped, and that rose-scented breeze floated in through the opened windows. All this--he'd done this for me. As if I would have cared about cobwebs or dust. When he paused before a set of wooden doors, the slight smile he gave me was enough to make me blurt, "Why do anything--anything this kind?" The smile faltered. "It's been a long time since there was anyone here who appreciated these things. I like seeing them used again." Especially when there was such blood and death in every other part of his life. He opened the gallery doors, and the breath was knocked from me. The pale wooden floors gleamed in the clean, bright light pouring in from the windows. The room was empty save for a few large chairs and benches for viewing the ... the ... I barely registered moving into the long gallery, one hand absentmindedly wrapping around my throat as I looked up at the paintings. So many, so different, yet all arranged to flow together seamlessly ... Such different views and snippets and angles of the world. Pastorals, portraits, still lifes ... each a story and an experience, each a voice shouting or whispering or singing about what that moment, that feeling, had been like, each a cry into the void of time that they had been here, had existed. Some had been painted through eyes like mine, artists who saw in colors and shapes I understood. Some showcased colors I had not considered; these had a bend to the world that told me a different set of eyes had painted them. A portal into the mind of a creature so unlike me, and yet ... and yet I looked at its work and understood, and felt, and cared. "I never knew," Tamlin said from behind me, "that humans were capable of ..." He trailed off as I turned, the hand I'd put on my throat sliding down to my chest, where my heart roared with a fierce sort of joy and grief and overwhelming humility--humility before that magnificent art. He stood by the doors, head cocked in that animalistic way, the words still lost on his tongue. I wiped at my damp cheeks. "It's ..." Perfect, wonderful, beyond my wildest imaginings didn't cover it. I kept my hand over my heart. "Thank you," I said. It was all I could find to show him what these paintings--to be allowed into this room--meant. "Come here whenever you want." I smiled at him, hardly able to contain the brightness in my heart. His returning smile was tentative but shining, and then he left me to admire the gallery at my own leisure. I stayed for hours--stayed until I was drunk on the art, until I was dizzy with hunger and wandered out to find food. After lunch, Alis showed me to an empty room on the first floor with a table full of canvases of various sizes, brushes whose wooden handles gleamed in the perfect, clear light, and paints--so, so many paints, beyond the four basic ones I'd hoped for, that the breath was knocked from me again. And when Alis was gone and the room was quiet and waiting and utterly mine ... Then I began to paint. Weeks passed, the days melting together. I painted and painted, most of it awful and useless. I never let anyone see it, no matter how much Tamlin prodded and Lucien smirked at my paint-splattered clothes; I never felt satisfied that my work matched the images burning in my mind. Often I painted from dawn until dusk, sometimes in that room, sometimes out in the garden. Occasionally I'd take a break to explore the Spring lands with Tamlin as my guide, coming back with fresh ideas that had me leaping out of bed the next morning to sketch or scribble down the scenes or colors as I'd glimpsed them. But there were the days when Tamlin was called away to face the latest threat to his borders, and even painting couldn't distract me until he returned, covered in blood that wasn't his own, sometimes in his beast form, sometimes as the High Lord. He never gave me details, and I didn't presume to ask about them; his safe return was enough. Around the manor itself, there was no sign of creatures like the naga or the Bogge, but I stayed well away from the western woods, even though I painted them often enough from memory. And though my dreams continued to be plagued by the deaths I'd witnessed, the deaths I'd caused, and that horrible pale woman ripping me to shreds--all watched over by a shadow I could never quite glimpse--I slowly stopped being so afraid. Stay with the High Lord. You will be safe. So I did. The Spring Court was a land of rolling green hills and lush forests and clear, bottomless lakes. Magic didn't just abound in the bumps and the hollows--it grew there. Try as I might to paint it, I could never capture it--the feel of it. So sometimes I dared to paint the High Lord, who rode at my side when we wandered his grounds on lazy days--the High Lord, whom I was happy to talk to or spend hours in comfortable silence with. It was probably the lulling of magic that clouded my thoughts, and I didn't think of my family until I passed the outer hedge wall one morning, scouting for a new spot to paint. A breeze from the south ruffled my hair--fresh and warm. Spring was now dawning on the mortal world. My family, glamoured, cared for, safe, still had no idea where I was. The mortal world ... it had moved on without me, as if I had never existed. A whisper of a miserable life-- gone, unremembered by anyone whom I'd known or cared for. I didn't paint, nor did I go riding with Tamlin that day. Instead, I sat before a blank canvas, no colors at all in my mind. No one would remember me back home--I was as good as dead to them. And Tamlin had let me forget them. Maybe the paints had even been a distraction--a way to get me to stop complaining, to stop being a pain in his ass about wanting to see my family. Or maybe they were a distraction from whatever was happening with the blight and Prythian. I'd stopped asking, just as the Suriel had ordered--like a stupid, useless, obedient human. It was an effort of stubborn will to make it through dinner. Tamlin and Lucien noticed my mood and kept conversation between themselves. It didn't do much for my growing rage, and when I had eaten my fill, I stalked into the moonlit garden and lost myself in its labyrinth of hedges and flower beds. I didn't care where I was going. After a while, I paused in the rose garden. The moonlight stained the red petals a deep purple and cast a silvery sheen on the white blooms. "My father had this garden planted for my mother," Tamlin said from behind me. I didn't bother to face him. I dug my nails into my palms as he stopped by my side. "It was a mating present." I stared at the flowers without seeing anything. The flowers I'd painted on the table at home were probably crumbling or gone by now. Nesta might have even scraped them off. My nails pricked the skin of my palms. Tamlin providing for them or no, glamouring their memories or no, I'd been ... erased from their lives. Forgotten. I'd let him erase me. He'd offered me paints and the space and time to practice; he'd shown me pools of starlight; he'd saved my life like some kind of feral knight in a legend, and I'd gulped it down like faerie wine. I was no better than those zealot Children of the Blessed. His mask was bronze in the darkness, and the emeralds glittered. "You seem ... upset." I stalked to the nearest rosebush and ripped off a rose, my fingers tearing on the thorns. I ignored the pain, the warmth of the blood that trickled down. I could never paint it accurately--never render it the way those artists had in the gallery pieces. I would never be able to paint Elain's little garden outside the cottage the way I remembered it, even if my family didn't remember me. He didn't reprimand me for taking one of his parents' roses--parents who were as absent as my own, but who had probably loved each other and loved him better than mine cared for me. A family that would have offered to go in his place if someone had come to steal him away. My fingers stung and ached, but I still held on to the rose as I said, "I don't know why I feel so tremendously ashamed of myself for leaving them. Why it feels so selfish and horrible to paint. I shouldn't--shouldn't feel that way, should I? I know I shouldn't, but I can't help it." The rose hung limply from my fingers. "All those years, what I did for them ... And they didn't try to stop you from taking me." There it was, the giant pain that cracked me in two if I thought about it too long. "I don't know why I expected them to-- why I believed that the puca's illusion was real that night. I don't know why I bother still thinking about it. Or still caring." He was silent long enough that I added, "Compared to you--to your borders and magic being weakened--I suppose my self-pity is absurd." "If it grieves you," he said, the words caressing my bones, "then I don't think it's absurd at all." "Why?" A flat question, and I chucked the rose into the bushes. He took my hands. His callused fingers, strong and sturdy, were gentle as he lifted my bleeding hand to his mouth and kissed my palm. As if that were answer enough. His lips were smooth against my skin, his breath warm, and my knees buckled as he lifted my other hand to his mouth and kissed it, too. Kissed it carefully--in a way that made heat begin pounding in my core, between my legs. When he withdrew, my blood shone on his mouth. I glanced at my hands, which he still held, and found the wounds gone. I looked at his face again, at his gilded mask, the tanness of his skin, the red of his blood-covered lips as he murmured, "Don't feel bad for one moment about doing what brings you joy." He stepped closer, releasing one of my hands to tuck the rose I'd plucked behind my ear. I didn't know how it had gotten into his hand, or where the thorns had gone. I couldn't stop myself from pushing. "Why--why do any of this?" He leaned in closer, so close that I had to tip my head back to see him. "Because your human joy fascinates me--the way you experience things, in your life span, so wildly and deeply and all at once, is ... entrancing. I'm drawn to it, even when I know I shouldn't be, even when I try not to be." Because I was human, and I would grow old and--I didn't let myself get that far as he came closer still. Slowly, as if giving me time to pull away, he brushed his lips against my cheek. Soft and warm and heartbreakingly gentle. It was hardly more than a caress before he straightened. I hadn't moved from the moment his mouth had met my skin. "One day--one day there will be answers for everything," he said, releasing my hand and stepping away. "But not until the time is right. Until it's safe." In the dark, his tone was enough to know that his eyes were flecked with bitterness. He left me, and I took a gasping breath, not realizing I'd been holding it. Not realizing that I craved his warmth, his nearness, until he was gone. Lingering mortification over what I'd admitted, what had ... changed between us had me skulking out of the manor after breakfast, fleeing for the sanctuary of the woods for some fresh air--and to study the light and colors. I brought my bow and arrows, along with the jeweled hunting knife that Lucien had given me. Better to be armed than caught empty- handed. I crept through the trees and brush for no more than an hour before I felt a presence behind me--coming ever closer, sending the animals running for cover. I smiled to myself, and twenty minutes later, I settled in the crook of a towering elm and waited. Brush rustled--hardly more than a breeze's passing, but I knew what to expect, knew the signs. A snap and roar of fury echoed across the lands, scattering the birds. When I climbed out of the tree and walked into the little clearing, I merely crossed my arms and looked up at the High Lord, dangling by his legs from the snare I'd laid. Even upside down, he smiled lazily at me as I approached. "Cruel human." "That's what you get for stalking someone." He chuckled, and I came close enough to dare stroke a finger along the silken golden hair dangling just above my face, admiring the many colors within it--the hues of yellow and brown and wheat. My heart thundered, and I knew he could probably hear it. But he leaned his head toward me, a silent invitation, and I ran my fingers through his hair-- gently, carefully. He purred, the sound rumbling through my fingers, arms, legs, and core. I wondered how that sound would feel if he were fully pressed up against me, skin-to-skin. I stepped back. He curled upward in a smooth, powerful motion and swiped with a single claw at the creeping vine I'd used for rope. I took a breath to shout, but he flipped as he fell, landing smoothly on his feet. It would be impossible for me to ever forget what he was, and what he was capable of. He took a step closer to me, the laughter still dancing on his face. "Feeling better today?" I mumbled some noncommittal response. "Good," he said, either ignoring or hiding his amusement. "But just in case, I wanted to give you this," he added, pulling some papers from his tunic and extending them to me. I bit the inside of my cheek as I stared down at the three pieces of paper. It was a series of five-lined ... poems. There were five of them altogether, and I began sweating at words I didn't recognize. It would take me an entire day just to figure out what these words meant. "Before you bolt or start yelling ...," he said, coming around to peer over my shoulder. If I'd dared, I could have leaned back into his chest. His breath warmed my neck, the shell of my ear. He cleared his throat and read the first poem. There once was a lady most beautiful Spirited, if a little unusual Her friends were few But how the men did queue But to all she gave a refusal. My brows rose so high I thought they'd touch my hairline, and I turned, blinking at him, our breath mingling as he finished the poem with a smile. Without waiting for my response, Tamlin took the papers and stepped a pace away to read the second poem, which wasn't nearly as polite as the first. By the time he read the third poem, my face was burning. Tamlin paused before he read the fourth, then handed me back the papers. "Final word in the second and fourth line of each poem," he said, jerking his chin toward the papers in my hands. Unusual. Queue. I looked at the second poem. Slaying. Conflagration. "These are--" I started. "Your list of words was too interesting to pass up. And not good for love poems at all." When I lifted my brow in silent inquiry, he said, "We had contests to see who could write the dirtiest limericks while I was living with my father's war-band by the border. I don't particularly enjoy losing, so I took it upon myself to become good at them." I didn't know how he'd remembered that long list I'd compiled--I didn't want to. Sensing I wasn't about to draw an arrow and shoot him, Tamlin took the papers and read the fifth poem, the dirtiest and foulest of them all. When he finished, I tipped back my head and howled, my laughter like sunshine shattering age-hardened ice. Hh I was still smiling when we walked out of the park and toward the rolling hills, meandering back to the manor. "You said--that night in the rose garden ..." I sucked on my teeth for a moment. "You said that your father had it planted for your parents upon their mating--not wedding?" "High Fae mostly marry," he said, his golden skin flushing a bit. "But if they're blessed, they'll find their mate--their equal, their match in every way. High Fae wed without the mating bond, but if you find your mate, the bond is so deep that marriage is ... insignificant in comparison." I didn't have the nerve to ask if faeries had ever had mating bonds with humans, but instead dared to say, "Where are your parents? What happened to them?" A muscle feathered in his jaw, and I regretted the question, if only for the pain that flickered in his eyes. "My father ..." His claws gleamed at his knuckles but didn't go out any farther. I'd definitely asked the wrong question. "My father was as bad as Lucien's. Worse. My two older brothers were just like him. They kept slaves--all of them. And my brothers ... I was young when the Treaty was forged, but I still remember what my brothers used to ..." He trailed off. "It left a mark--enough of a mark that when I saw you, your house, I couldn't--wouldn't let myself be like them. Wouldn't bring harm to your family, or you, or subject you to faerie whims." Slaves--there had been slaves here. I didn't want to know--had never looked for traces of them, even five hundred years later. I was still little better than chattel to most of his people, his world. That was why--why he'd offered the loophole, why he'd offered me the freedom to live wherever I wished in Prythian. "Thank you," I said. He shrugged, as if that would dismiss his kindness, the weight of the guilt that still bore down on him. "What about your mother?" Tamlin loosed a breath. "My mother--she loved my father deeply. Too deeply, but they were mated, and ... Even if she saw what a tyrant he was, she wouldn't say an ill word against him. I never expected--never wanted--my father's title. My brothers would have never let me live to adolescence if they had suspected that I did. So the moment I was old enough, I joined my father's war-band and trained so that I might someday serve my father, or whichever of my brothers inherited his title." He flexed his hands, as if imagining the claws beneath. "I'd realized from an early age that fighting and killing were about the only things I was good at." "I doubt that," I said. He gave me a wry smile. "Oh, I can play a mean fiddle, but High Lords' sons don't become traveling minstrels. So I trained and fought for my father against whomever he told me to fight, and I would have been happy to leave the scheming to my brothers. But my power kept growing, and I couldn't hide it--not among our kind." He shook his head. "Fortunately or unfortunately, they were all killed by the High Lord of an enemy court. I was spared for whatever reason or Cauldron-granted luck. My mother, I mourned. The others ..." A too-tight shrug. "My brothers would not have tried to save me from a fate like yours." I looked up at him. Such a brutal, harsh world--with families killing each other for power, for revenge, for spite and control. Perhaps his generosity, his kindness, was a reaction to that--perhaps he'd seen me and found it to be like gazing into a mirror of sorts. "I'm sorry about your mother," I said, and it was all I could offer--all he'd once been able to offer me. He gave me a small smile. "So that's how you became High Lord." "Most High Lords are trained from birth in manners and laws and court warfare. When the title fell to me, it was a ... rough transition. Many of my father's courtiers defected to other courts rather than have a warrior-beast snarling at them." A half-wild beast, Nesta had once called me. It was an effort to not take his hand, to not reach out to him and tell him that I understood. But I just said, "Then they're idiots. You've kept these lands protected from the blight, when it seems that others haven't fared so well. They're idiots," I said again. But darkness flickered in Tamlin's eyes, and his shoulders seemed to curve inward ever so slightly. Before I could ask about it, we cleared the little wood, a spread of hills and knolls laid out ahead. In the distance, there were masked faeries atop many of them, building what seemed to be unlit fires. "What are those?" I asked, halting. "They're setting up bonfires--for Calanmai. It's in two days." "For what?" "Fire Night?" I shook my head. "We don't celebrate holidays in the human realm. Not after you-- your people left. In some places, it's forbidden. We don't even remember the names of your gods. What does Cala--Fire Night celebrate?" He rubbed his neck. "It's just a spring ceremony. We light bonfires, and ... the magic that we create helps regenerate the land for the year ahead." "How do you create the magic?" "There's a ritual. But it's ... very faerie." He clenched his jaw and continued walking, away from the unlit fires. "You might see more faeries around than usual--faeries from this court, and from other territories, who are free to wander across the borders that night." "I thought the blight had scared many of them away." "It has--but there will be a number of them. Just ... stay away from them all. You'll be safe in the house, but if you run into one before we light the fires at sundown in two days, ignore them." "And I'm not invited to your ceremony?" "No. You're not." He clenched and loosened his fingers, again and again, as if trying to keep the claws contained. Though I tried to ignore it, my chest caved a bit. We walked back in the sort of tense silence we hadn't endured in weeks. Tamlin went rigid the moment we entered the gardens. Not from me or our awkward conversation--it was quiet with that horrible stillness that usually meant one of the nastier faeries was around. Tamlin bared his teeth in a low snarl. "Stay hidden, and no matter what you overhear, don't come out." Then he was gone. Alone, I looked to either side of the gravel path, like some gawking idiot. If there was indeed something here, I'd be caught in the open. Perhaps it was shameful not to go to his aid, but--he was a High Lord. I would just get in the way. I had just ducked behind a hedge when I heard Tamlin and Lucien approaching. I silently swore and froze. Maybe I could sneak across the fields to the stables. If there was something amiss, the stables not only had shelter but also a horse for me to flee on. I was about to make for the high grasses mere steps beyond the edge of the gardens when Tamlin's snarl rippled through the air on the other side of the hedge. I turned--just enough to spy them through the dense leaves. Stay hidden, he'd said. If I moved now, I would surely be noticed. "I know what day it is," Tamlin said--but not to Lucien. Rather, the two of them faced . nothing. Someone who wasn't there. Someone invisible. I would have thought they were playing a prank on me had I not heard a low, disembodied voice reply. "Your continued behavior is garnering a lot of interest at court," the voice said, deep and sibilant. I shivered, despite the warmth of the day. "She has begun wondering-- wondering why you haven't given up yet. And why four naga wound up dead not too long ago." "Tamlin's not like the other fools," Lucien snapped, his shoulders pushed back to raise himself to his full height, more warrior-like than I'd yet seen him. No wonder he had all those weapons in his room. "If she expected bowed heads, then she's more of an idiot than I thought." The voice hissed, and my blood went cold at the noise. "Speak you so ill of she who holds your fate in her hands? With one word, she could destroy this pathetic estate. She wasn't pleased when she heard of you dispatching your warriors." The voice now seemed turned toward Tamlin. "But, as nothing has come of it, she has chosen to ignore it." There was a deep-throated growl from the High Lord, but his words were calm as he said, "Tell her I'm getting sick of cleaning up the trash she dumps on my borders." The voice chuckled, the sound like sand shifting. "She sets them loose as gifts--and reminders of what will happen if she catches you trying to break the terms of--" "He's not," Lucien snarled. "Now, get out. We have enough of your ilk swarming on the borders--we don't need you defiling our home, too. For that matter, stay the hell out of the cave. It's not some common road for filth like you to travel through as they please." Tamlin loosed a growl of agreement. The invisible thing laughed again, such a horrible, vicious sound. "Though you have a heart of stone, Tamlin," it said, and Tamlin went rigid, "you certainly keep a host of fear inside it." The voice sank into a croon. "Don't worry, High Lord." It spat the title like a joke. "All will be right as rain soon enough." "Burn in Hell," Lucien replied for Tamlin, and the thing laughed again before a flap of leathery wings boomed, a foul wind bit my face, and everything went silent. They breathed deeply after another moment. I closed my eyes, needing a steadying breath as well, but massive hands clamped onto my shoulders, and I yelped. "Its gone," Tamlin said, releasing me. It was all I could do not to sag against the hedges. "What did you hear?" Lucien demanded, coming around the corner and crossing his arms. I shifted my gaze to Tamlin's face, but found it to be so white with anger--anger at that thing--that I had to look again at Lucien. "Nothing--I ... well, nothing I understood," I said, and meant it. None of it made any sense. I couldn't stop shaking. Something about that voice had ripped away the warmth from me. "Who--what was that?" Tamlin began pacing, the gravel churning beneath his boots. "There are certain faeries in Prythian who inspired the legends that you humans are so afraid of. Some, like that one, are myth given flesh." Inside that hissing voice I'd heard the screaming of human victims, the pleading of young maidens whose chests had been split open on sacrificial altars. Mentions of "court," seemingly different from Tamlin's own--was that she the one who had killed Tamlin's parents? A High Lady, perhaps, in lieu of a Lord. Considering how ruthless the High Fae were to their families, they had to be nightmarish to their enemies. And if there was to be warring between the courts, if the blight had left Tamlin already weakened ... "If the Attor saw her--" Lucien said, glancing around. "It didn't," Tamlin said. "Are you certain it--" "It didn't," Tamlin growled over his shoulder, then looked at me, his face still pale with fury, lips tight. "I'll see you at dinner." Understanding a dismissal, and craving the locked door of my bedroom, I trudged back to the house, contemplating who this she was to make Tamlin and Lucien so nervous and to command that thing as her messenger. The spring breeze whispered that I didn't want to know. <|title|>Chapter 20 <|startofchapter|>After a tense dinner during which Tamlin hardly spoke to Lucien or me, I lit all the candles in my room to chase away the shadows. I didn't go outside the following day, and when I sat down to paint, what emerged on my canvas was a tall, skeletally thin gray creature with bat ears and giant, membranous wings. Its snout was open in a roar, revealing row after row of fangs as it leaped into flight. As I painted it, I could have sworn that I could smell breath that reeked of carrion, that the air beneath its wings whispered promises of death. The finished product was chilling enough that I had to set aside the painting in the back of the room and go try to persuade Alis to let me help with the Fire Night food preparations in the kitchen. Anything to avoid going into the garden, where the Attor might appear. The day of Fire Night--Calanmai, Tamlin had called it--dawned, and I didn't see Tamlin or Lucien all day. As the afternoon shifted into dusk, I found myself again at the main crossroads of the house. None of the bird-faced servants were to be found. The kitchen was empty of staff and the food they'd been preparing for two days. The sound of drums issued. The drumbeats came from far away--beyond the garden, past the game park, into the forest that lay beyond. They were deep, probing. A single beat, echoed by two responding calls. Summoning. I stood by the doors to the garden, staring out over the property as the sky became awash in hues of orange and red. In the distance, upon the sloping hills that led into the woods, a few fires flickered, plumes of dark smoke marring the ruby sky--the unlit bonfires I'd spotted two days ago. Not invited, I reminded myself. Not invited to whatever party had all the kitchen faeries tittering and laughing among one another. The drums turned faster--louder. Though I'd grown accustomed to the smell of magic, my nose pricked with the rising tang of metal, stronger than I'd yet sensed it. I took a step forward, then halted on the threshold. I should go back in. Behind me, the setting sun stained the black-and-white tiles of the hall floor a shimmering shade of tangerine, and my long shadow seemed to pulse to the beat of the drums. Even the garden, usually buzzing with the orchestra of its denizens, had quieted to hear the drums. There was a string--a string tied to my gut that pulled me toward those hills, commanding me to go, to hear the faerie drums ... I might have done just that had Tamlin not appeared from down the hall. He was shirtless, with only the baldric across his muscled chest. The pommel of his sword glinted golden in the dying sunlight, and the feathered tops of arrows were stained red as they poked above his broad shoulder. I stared at him, and he watched me back. The warrior incarnate. "Where are you going?" I managed to get out. "It's Calanmai," he said flatly. "I have to go." He jerked his chin to the fires and drums. "To do what?" I asked, glancing at the bow in his hand. My heart echoed the drums outside, building into a wilder beat. His green eyes were shadowed beneath the gilded mask. "As a High Lord, I have to partake in the Great Rite." "What's the Great--" "Go to your chamber," he snarled, and glanced toward the fires. "Lock your doors, set up a snare, whatever you do." "Why?" I demanded. The Attor's voice snaked through my memory. Tamlin had said something about a very faerie ritual--what the hell was it? From the weapons, it had to be brutal and violent--especially if Tamlin's beast form wasn't weapon enough. "Just do it." His canines began to lengthen. My heart leaped into a gallop. "Don't come out until morning." Stronger, faster, the drums beat, and the muscles in Tamlin's neck quivered, as if standing still were somehow painful to him. "Are you going into battle?" I whispered, and he let out a breathy laugh. He lifted a hand as if to touch my arm. But he lowered it before his fingers could graze the fabric of my tunic. "Stay in your chamber, Feyre." "But --" "Please." Before I could ask him to reconsider bringing me along, he took off running. The muscles in his back shifted as he leaped down the short flight of stairs and bounded into the garden, as spry and swift as a stag. Within seconds he was gone. I did as he commanded, though I soon realized that I'd locked myself in my room without having eaten dinner. And with the incessant drumming and dozens of bonfires that popped up along the far hills, I couldn't stop pacing up and down my room, gazing out toward the fires burning in the distance. Stay in your chamber. But a wild, wicked voice weaving in between the drumbeats whispered otherwise. Go, that voice said, tugging at me. Go see. By ten o'clock, I could no longer stand it. I followed the drums. The stables were empty, but Tamlin had taught me how to ride bareback these past few weeks, and my white mare was soon trotting along. I didn't need to guide her--she, too, followed the lure of the drums, and ascended the first of the foothills. Smoke and magic hung thick in the air. Concealed in my hooded cloak, I gaped as I approached the first giant bonfire atop the hill. There were hundreds of High Fae milling about, but I couldn't discern any of their features beyond the various masks they wore. Where had they come from--where did they live, if they belonged to the Spring Court but did not dwell in the manor? When I tried to focus on a specific feature of their faces, it became a blur of color. They were more solid when I viewed them from the side of my vision, but if I turned to face them, I was met with shadows and swirling colors. It was magic--some kind of glamour put on me, meant to prevent my viewing them properly, just as my family had been glamoured. I would have been furious, would have considered going back to the manor had the drums not echoed through my bones and that wild voice not beckoned to me. I dismounted my mare but kept close to her as I made my way through the crowd, my telltale human features hidden in the shadows of my hood. I prayed that the smoke and countless scents of various High Fae and faeries were enough to cover my human smell, but I checked to ensure that my two knives were still at my sides anyway as I moved deeper into the celebration. Though a cluster of drummers played on one side of the fire, the faeries flocked to a trench between two nearby hills. I left my horse tied to a solitary sycamore crowning a knoll and followed them, savoring the pulsing beat of the drums as it resonated through the earth and into the soles of my feet. No one looked twice in my direction. I almost slid down the steep bank as I entered the hollow. At one end, a cave mouth opened into a soft hillside. Its exterior had been adorned with flowers and branches and leaves, and I could make out the beginnings of a pelt-covered floor just past the cave mouth. What lay inside was hidden from view as the chamber veered away from the entrance, but firelight danced upon the walls. Whatever was occurring inside the cave--or whatever was about to happen--was the focus of the shadowy faeries as they lined either side of a long path leading to it. The path wended between the trenches among the hills, and the High Fae swayed in place, moving to the rhythm of the drumming, whose beats sounded in my stomach. I watched them sway, then shifted on my feet. I'd been banned from this? I scanned the firelit area, trying to peer through the veil of night and smoke. I found nothing of interest, and none of the masked faeries paid me any heed. They remained along the path, more and more of them coming each minute. Something was definitely going to happen-- whatever this Great Rite was. I made my way back up the hillside and stood along the edge of a bonfire near the trees, watching the faeries. I was about to work up the courage to ask a lesser faerie who passed by--a bird-masked servant, like Alis--what sort of ritual was going to happen when someone grasped my arm and whirled me around. I blinked at the three strangers, dumbfounded as I beheld their sharp-featured faces-- free of masks. They looked like High Fae, but there was something slightly different about them, something taller and leaner than Tamlin or Lucien--something crueler in their pitch-black, depthless eyes. Faeries, then. The one grasping my arm smiled down at me, revealing slightly pointed teeth. "Human woman," he murmured, running an eye over me. "We've not seen one of you for a while." I tried yanking my arm back, but he held my elbow firm. "What do you want?" I demanded, keeping my voice steady and cold. The two faeries who flanked him smiled at me, and one grabbed my other arm--just as I went for my knife. "Just some Fire Night fun," one of them said, reaching out a pale, too-long hand to brush back a lock of my hair. I twisted my head away and tried to step out of his touch, but he held firm. None of the faeries near the bonfire reacted--no one bothered to look. If I cried for help, would someone answer? Would Tamlin answer? I couldn't be that lucky again; I'd probably used up my allotted portion of luck with the naga. I yanked my arms in earnest. Their grip tightened until it hurt, and they kept my hands well away from my knives. The three of them stepped closer, sealing me off from the others. I glanced around, looking for any ally. There were more nonmasked faeries here now. The three faeries chuckled, a low hissing noise that ran along my body. I hadn't realized how far I stood from everyone else--how close I'd come to the forest's edge. "Leave me alone," I said, louder and angrier than I'd expected, given the shaking that was Starting in my knees. "Bold statement from a human on Calanmai," said the one holding my left arm. The fires didn't reflect in his eyes. It was as if they gobbled up the light. I thought of the naga, whose horrible exteriors matched their rotten hearts. Somehow, these beautiful, ethereal faeries were far worse. "Once the Rite's performed, we'll have some fun, won't we? A treat--such a treat--to find a human woman here." I bared my teeth at him. "Get your hands off me," I said, loud enough for anyone to hear. One of them ran a hand down my side, its bony fingers digging into my ribs, my hips. I jerked back, only to slam into the third one, who wove his long fingers through my hair and pressed close. No one looked; no one noticed. "Stop it," I said, but the words came out in a strangled gasp as they began herding me toward the line of trees, toward the darkness. I pushed and thrashed against them; they only hissed. One of them shoved me and I staggered, falling out of their grasp. The ground welled up beneath me, and I reached for my knives, but sturdy hands grasped me under the shoulders before I could draw them or hit the grass. They were strong hands--warm and broad. Not at all like the prodding, bony fingers of the three faeries who went utterly still as whoever caught me gently set me upright. "There you are. I've been looking for you," said a deep, sensual male voice I'd never heard. But I kept my eyes on the three faeries, bracing myself for flight as the male behind me stepped to my side and slipped a casual arm around my shoulders. The three lesser faeries paled, their dark eyes wide. "Thank you for finding her for me," my savior said to them, smooth and polished. "Enjoy the Rite." There was enough of a bite beneath his last words that the faeries stiffened. Without further comment, they scuttled back to the bonfires. I stepped out of the shelter of my savior's arm and turned to thank him. Standing before me was the most beautiful man I'd ever seen. <|title|>Chapter 21 <|startofchapter|>Everything about the stranger radiated sensual grace and ease. High Fae, no doubt. His short black hair gleamed like a raven's feathers, offsetting his pale skin and blue eyes so deep they were violet, even in the firelight. They twinkled with amusement as he beheld me. For a moment, we said nothing. Thank you didn't seem to cover what he'd done for me, but something about the way he stood with absolute stillness, the night seeming to press in closer around him, made me hesitate to speak--made me want to run in the other direction. He, too, wasn't wearing a mask. From another court, then. A half smile played on his lips. "What's a mortal woman doing here on Fire Night?" His voice was a lover's purr that sent shivers through me, caressing every muscle and bone and nerve. I took a step back. "My friends brought me." The drumming was increasing in tempo, building to a climax I didn't understand. It had been so long since I'd seen a bare face that looked even vaguely human. His clothes--all black, all finely made--were cut close enough to his body that I could see how magnificent he was. As if he'd been molded from the night itself. "And who are your friends?" He was still smiling at me--a predator sizing up prey. "Two ladies," I lied again. "Their names?" He prowled closer, slipping his hands into his pockets. I retreated a little more and kept my mouth shut. Had I just traded three monsters for something far worse? When it became apparent I wouldn't answer, he chuckled. "You're welcome," he said. "For saving you." I bristled at his arrogance but retreated another step. I was close enough to the bonfire, to that little hollow where the faeries were all gathered, that I could make it if I sprinted. Maybe someone would take pity on me--maybe Lucien or Alis were there. "Strange for a mortal to be friends with two faeries," he mused, and began circling me. I could have sworn tendrils of star-kissed night trailed in his wake. "Aren't humans usually terrified of us? And aren't you, for that matter, supposed to keep to your side of the wall?" I was terrified of him, but I wasn't about to let him know. "I've known them my whole life. I've never had anything to fear from them." He paused his circling. He now stood between me and the bonfire--and my escape route. "And yet they brought you to the Great Rite and abandoned you." "They went to get refreshments," I said, and his smile grew. Whatever I'd just said had given me away. I'd spotted the servants hauling off the food, but--maybe it wasn't here. He smiled for a heartbeat longer. I had never seen anyone so handsome--and never had so many warning bells pealed in my head because of it. "I'm afraid the refreshments are a long way off," he said, coming closer now. "It might be a while before they return. May I escort you somewhere in the meantime?" He removed a hand from his pocket to offer his arm. He'd been able to scare off those faeries without lifting a finger. "No," I said, my tongue thick and heavy. He waved his hand toward the hollow--toward the drums. "Enjoy the Rite, then. Try to stay out of trouble." His eyes gleamed in a way that suggested staying out of trouble meant staying far, far away from him. Though it might have been the biggest risk I'd ever taken, I blurted, "So you're not a part of the Spring Court?" He returned to me, every movement exquisite and laced with lethal power, but I held my ground as he gave me a lazy smile. "Do I look like I'm part of the Spring Court?" The words were tinged with an arrogance that only an immortal could achieve. He laughed under his breath. "No, I'm not a part of the noble Spring Court. And glad of it." He gestured to his face, where a mask might go. I should have walked away, should have shut my mouth. "Why are you here, then?" The man's remarkable eyes seemed to glow--with enough of a deadly edge that I backed up a step. "Because all the monsters have been let out of their cages tonight, no matter what court they belong to. So I may roam wherever I wish until the dawn." More riddles and questions to be answered. But I'd had enough--especially as his smile turned cold and cruel. "Enjoy the Rite," I repeated as blandly as I could. I hurried back to the hollow, too aware of the fact that I was putting my back to him. I was grateful to lose myself in the crowd milling along the path to the cave, still waiting for some moment to occur. When I stopped shaking, I looked around at the gathered faeries. Most of them still wore masks, but there were some, like that lethal stranger and those three horrible faeries, who wore no masks at all--either faeries with no allegiance or members of other courts. I couldn't tell them apart. As I scanned the crowd, my eyes met with those of a masked faerie across the path. One was russet and shone as brightly as his red hair. The other was --metal. I blinked at the same moment he did, and then his eyes went wide. He vanished into nothing, and a second later, someone grabbed my elbow and yanked me out of the crowd. "Have you lost your senses?" Lucien shouted above the drums. His face was ghostly pale. "What are you doing here?" None of the faeries noticed us--they were all staring intensely down the path, away from the cave. "I wanted to--" I started, but Lucien cursed violently. "Idiot!" he yelled at me, then glanced behind him toward where the other faeries stared. "Useless human fool." Without further word, he slung me over his shoulder as if I were a sack of potatoes. Despite my wriggling and shouts of protest, despite my demands that he get my horse, he held firm, and when I looked up, I found that he was running--fast. Faster than anything should be able to move. It made me so nauseated that I shut my eyes. He didn't stop until the air was cooler and calmer, and the drumming was distant. Lucien dropped me on the floor of the manor hallway, and when I steadied myself, I found his face just as pale as before. "You stupid mortal," he snapped. "Didn't he tell you to stay in your room?" Lucien looked over his shoulder, toward the hills, where the drumming became so loud and fast that it was like a rainstorm. "That was hardly anything--" "That wasn't even the ceremony!" It was only then that I saw the sweat on his face and the panicked gleam in his eyes. "By the Cauldron, if Tam found you there ..." "So what?" I said, shouting as well. I hated feeling like a disobedient child. "It's the Great Rite, Cauldron boil me! Didn't anyone tell you what it is?" My silence was answer enough. I could almost see the drumbeats pulsing against his skin, beckoning him to rejoin the crowd. "Fire Night signals the official start of spring--in Prythian, as well as in the mortal world," Lucien said. While his words were calm, they trembled slightly. I leaned against the wall of the hallway, forcing myself into a casualness I didn't feel. "Here, our crops depend upon the magic we regenerate on Calanmai--tonight." I stuffed my hands into the pockets of my pants. Tamlin had said something similar two days ago. Lucien shuddered, as if shaking off an invisible touch. "We do this by conducting the Great Rite. Each of the seven High Lords of Prythian performs this every year, since their magic comes from the earth and returns to it at the end-- it's a give-and- take." "But what is it?" I asked, and he clicked his tongue. "Tonight, Tam will allow ... great and terrible magic to enter his body," Lucien said, staring at the distant fires. "The magic will seize control of his mind, his body, his soul, and turn him into the Hunter. It will fill him with his sole purpose: to find the Maiden. From their coupling, magic will be released and spread to the earth, where it will regenerate life for the year to come." My face became hot, and I fought the urge to fidget. "Tonight, Tam won't be the faerie you know," Lucien said. "He won't even know his name. The magic will consume everything in him but that one basic command--and need." "Who ... who's the Maiden?" I got out. Lucien snorted. "No one knows until it's time. After Tam hunts down the white stag and kills it for the sacrificial offering, he'll make his way to that sacred cave, where he'll find the path lined with faerie females waiting to be chosen as his mate for tonight." "What?" Lucien laughed. "Yes--all those female faeries around you were females for Tamlin to pick. It's an honor to be chosen, but it's his instincts that select her." "But you were there--and other male faeries." My face burned so hot that I began sweating. That was why those three horrible faeries had been there--and they'd thought that just by my presence, I was happy to comply with their plans. "Ah." Lucien chuckled. "Well, Tam's not the only one who gets to perform the rite tonight. Once he makes his choice, we're free to mingle. Though it's not the Great Rite, our own dalliances tonight will help the land, too." He shrugged off that invisible hand a second time, and his eyes fell upon the hills. "You're lucky I found you when I did, though," he said. "Because he would have smelled you, and claimed you, but it wouldn't have been Tamlin who brought you into that cave." His eyes met mine, and a chill went over me. "And I don't think you would have liked it. Tonight is not for lovemaking." I swallowed my nausea. "I should go," Lucien said, gazing at the hills. "I need to return before he arrives at the cave--at least to try to control him when he smells you and can't find you in the crowd." It made me sick--the thought of Tamlin forcing me, that magic could strip away any sense of self, of right or wrong. But hearing that ... that some feral part of him wanted me ... My breath was painful. "Stay in your room tonight, Feyre," Lucien said, walking to the garden doors. "No matter who comes knocking, keep the door locked. Don't come out until morning." At some point, I dozed off while sitting at my vanity. I awoke the moment the drums stopped. A shuddering silence went through the house, and the hair on my arms arose as magic swept past me, rippling outward. Though I tried not to, I thought about the probable source and blushed, even as my chest tightened. I glanced at the clock. It was past two in the morning. Well, he'd certainly taken his time with the ritual, which meant the girl was probably beautiful and charming, and appealed to his instincts. I wondered whether she was glad to be chosen. Probably. She'd come to the hill of her own free will. And after all, Tamlin was a High Lord, and it was a great honor. And I supposed Tamlin was handsome. Terribly handsome. Even though I couldn't see the upper part of his face, his eyes were fine, and his mouth beautifully curved and full. And then there was his body, which was ... was ... I hissed and stood. I stared at my door, at the snare I'd rigged. How utterly absurd--as if bits of rope and wood could protect me from the demons in this land. Needing to do something with my hands, I carefully disassembled the snare. Then I unlocked the door and strode into the hallway. What a ridiculous holiday. Absurd. It was good that humans had cast them aside. I made it to the empty kitchen, gobbled down half a loaf of bread, an apple, and a lemon tart. I nibbled on a chocolate cookie as I walked to my little painting room. I needed to get some of the furious images out of my mind, even if I had to paint by candlelight. I was about to turn down the hallway when a tall male figure appeared before me. The moonlight from the open window turned his mask silver, and his golden hair--unbound and crowned with laurel leaves--gleamed. "Going somewhere?" Tamlin asked. His voice was not entirely of this world. I suppressed a shudder. "Midnight snack," I said, and I was keenly aware of every movement, every breath I took as I neared him. His bare chest was painted with whorls of dark blue woad, and from the smudges in the paint, I knew exactly where he'd been touched. I tried not to notice that they descended past his muscled midriff. I was about to pass him when he grabbed me, so fast that I didn't see anything until he had me pinned against the wall. The cookie dropped from my hand as he grasped my wrists. "I smelled you," he breathed, his painted chest rising and falling so close to mine. "I searched for you, and you weren't there." He reeked of magic. When I looked into his eyes, remnants of power flickered there. No kindness, none of the wry humor and gentle reprimands. The Tamlin I knew was gone. "Let go," I said as evenly as I could, but his claws punched out, imbedding in the wood above my hands. Still riding the magic, he was half-wild. "You drove me mad," he growled, and the sound trembled down my neck, along my breasts until they ached. "I searched for you, and you weren't there. When I didn't find you," he said, bringing his face closer to mine, until we shared breath, "it made me pick another." I couldn't escape. I wasn't entirely sure that I wanted to. "She asked me not to be gentle with her, either," he snarled, his teeth bright in the moonlight. He brought his lips to my ear. "I would have been gentle with you, though." I shuddered as I closed my eyes. Every inch of my body went taut as his words echoed through me. "I would have had you moaning my name throughout it all. And I would have taken a very, very long time, Feyre." He said my name like a caress, and his hot breath tickled my ear. My back arched slightly. He ripped his claws free from the wall, and my knees buckled as he let go. I grasped the wall to keep from sinking to the floor, to keep from grabbing him--to strike or caress, I didn't know. I opened my eyes. He still smiled--smiled like an animal. "Why should I want someone's leftovers?" I said, making to push him away. He grabbed my hands again and bit my neck. I cried out as his teeth clamped onto the tender spot where my neck met my shoulder. I couldn't move--couldn't think, and my world narrowed to the feeling of his lips and teeth against my skin. He didn't pierce my flesh, but rather bit to keep me pinned. The push of his body against mine, the hard and the soft, made me see red--see lightning, made me grind my hips against his. I should hate him--hate him for his stupid ritual, for the female he'd been with tonight ... His bite lightened, and his tongue caressed the places his teeth had been. He didn't move--he just remained in that spot, kissing my neck. Intently, territorially, lazily. Heat pounded between my legs, and as he ground his body against me, against every aching spot, a moan slipped past my lips. He jerked away. The air was bitingly cold against my freed skin, and I panted as he stared at me. "Don't ever disobey me again," he said, his voice a deep purr that ricocheted through me, awakening everything and lulling it into complicity. Then I reconsidered his words and straightened. He grinned at me in that wild way, and my hand connected with his face. "Don't tell me what to do," I breathed, my palm stinging. "And don't bite me like some enraged beast." He chuckled bitterly. The moonlight turned his eyes to the color of leaves in shadow. More--I wanted the hardness of his body crushing against mine; I wanted his mouth and teeth and tongue on my bare skin, on my breasts, between my legs. Everywhere--I wanted him everywhere. I was drowning in that need. His nostrils flared as he scented me--scented every burning, raging thought that was pounding through my body, my senses. The breath rushed from him in a mighty whoosh. He growled once, low and frustrated and vicious, before prowling away. <|title|>Chapter 22 <|startofchapter|>I awoke when the sun was high, after tossing and turning all night, empty and aching. The servants were sleeping in after their night of celebrating, so I made myself a bath and took a good, long soak. Try as I might to forget the feel of Tamlin's lips on my neck, I had an enormous bruise where he'd bitten me. After bathing, I dressed and sat at the vanity to braid my hair. I opened the drawers of the vanity, searching for a scarf or something to cover the bruise peeking over the collar of my blue tunic, but then paused and glared at myself in the mirror. He'd acted like a brute and a savage, and if he'd come to his senses by this morning, then seeing what he'd done would be minimal punishment. Sniffing, I opened the collar of my tunic farther and tucked stray strands of my golden- brown hair behind my ears so there would be no concealing it. I was beyond cowering. Humming to myself and swinging my hands, I strode downstairs and followed my nose to the dining room, where I knew lunch was usually served for Tamlin and Lucien. When I flung open the doors, I found them both sprawled in their chairs. I could have sworn that Lucien was sleeping upright, fork in hand. "Good afternoon," I said cheerfully, with an especially saccharine smile for the High Lord. He blinked at me, and both of the faerie men murmured their greetings as I took a seat across from Lucien, not my usual place facing Tamlin. I drank deeply from my goblet of water before piling food on my plate. I savored the tense silence as I consumed the meal before me. "You look ... refreshed," Lucien observed with a glance at Tamlin. I shrugged. "Sleep well?" "Like a babe." I smiled at him and took another bite of food, and felt Lucien's eyes travel inexorably to my neck. "What is that bruise?" Lucien demanded. I pointed with my fork to Tamlin. "Ask him. He did it." Lucien looked from Tamlin to me and then back again. "Why does Feyre have a bruise on her neck from you?" he asked with no small amount of amusement. "I bit her," Tamlin said, not pausing as he cut his steak. "We ran into each other in the hall after the Rite." I straightened in my chair. "She seems to have a death wish," he went on, cutting his meat. The claws stayed retracted but pushed against the skin above his knuckles. My throat closed up. Oh, he was mad--furious at my foolishness for leaving my room--but somehow managed to keep his anger on a tight, tight leash. "So, if Feyre can't be bothered to listen to orders, then I can't be held accountable for the consequences." "Accountable?" I sputtered, placing my hands flat on the table. "You cornered me in the hall like a wolf with a rabbit!" Lucien propped an arm on the table and covered his mouth with his hand, his russet eye bright. "While I might not have been myself, Lucien and I both told you to stay in your room," Tamlin said, so calmly that I wanted to rip out my hair. I couldn't help it. Didn't even try to fight the red-hot temper that razed my senses. "Faerie pig!" I yelled, and Lucien howled, almost tipping back in his chair. At the sight of Tamlin's growing smile, I left. It took me a couple of hours to stop painting little portraits of Tamlin and Lucien with pigs' features. But as I finished the last one--Two faerie pigs wallowing in their own filth, I would call it--I smiled into the clear, bright light of my private painting room. The Tamlin I knew had returned. And it made me ... happy. We apologized at dinner. He even brought me a bouquet of white roses from his parents' garden, and while I dismissed them as nothing, I made certain that Alis took good care of them when I returned to my room. She gave me only a wry nod before promising to set them in my painting room. I fell asleep with a smile still on my lips. For the first time in a long, long while, I slept peacefully. "Don't know if I should be pleased or worried," Alis said the next night as she slid the golden underdress over my upraised arms, then tugged it down. I smiled a bit, marveling at the intricate metallic lace that clung to my arms and torso like a second skin before falling loosely to the rug. "It's just a dress," I said, lifting my arms again as she brought over the gossamer turquoise overgown. It was sheer enough to see the gleaming gold mesh beneath, and light and airy and full of movement, as if it flowed on an invisible current. Alis just chuckled to herself and guided me over to the vanity to work on my hair. I didn't have the courage to look at the mirror as she fussed over me. "Does this mean you'll be wearing gowns from now on?" she asked, separating sections of my hair for whatever wonders she was doing to it. "No," I said quickly. "I mean--I'll be wearing my usual clothes during the day, but I thought it might be nice to ... try it out, at least for tonight." "I see. Good that you aren't losing your common sense entirely, then." I twisted my mouth to the side. "Who taught you how to do hair like this?" Her fingers stilled, then continued their work. "My mother taught me and my sister, and her mother taught her before that." "Have you always been at the Spring Court?" "No," she said, pinning my hair in various, subtle places. "No, we were originally from the Summer Court--that's where my kin still dwells." "How'd you wind up here?" Alis met my eyes in the mirror, her lips a tight line. "I made a choice to come here-- and my kin thought me mad. But my sister and her mate had been killed, and for her boys ..." She coughed, as if choking on the words. "I came here to do what I could." She patted my shoulder. "Have a look." I dared a glimpse at my reflection. I hurried from the room before I could lose my nerve. I had to keep my hands clenched at my sides to avoid wiping my sweaty palms on the skirts of my gown as I reached the dining room, and immediately contemplated bolting upstairs and changing into a tunic and pants. But I knew they'd already heard me, or smelled me, or used whatever heightened senses they had to detect my presence, and since fleeing would only make it worse, I found it in myself to push open the double doors. Whatever discussion Tamlin and Lucien had been having stopped, and I tried not to look at their wide eyes as I strode to my usual place at the end of the table. "Well, I'm late for something incredibly important," Lucien said, and before I could call him on his outright lie or beg him to stay, the fox-masked faerie vanished. I could feel the full weight of Tamlin's undivided attention on me--on every breath and movement I took. I studied the candelabras atop the mantel beside the table. I had nothing to say that didn't sound absurd--yet for some reason, my mouth decided to start moving. "You're so far away." I gestured to the expanse of table between us. "It's like you're in another room." The quarters of the table vanished, leaving Tamlin not two feet away, sitting at an infinitely more intimate table. I yelped and almost tipped over in my chair. He laughed as I gaped at the small table that now stood between us. "Better?" he asked. I ignored the metallic tang of magic as I said, "How ... how did you do that? Where did it go?" He cocked his head. "Between. Think of it as ... a broom closet tucked between pockets of the world." He flexed his hands and rolled his neck, as if shaking off some pain. "Does it tax you?" Sweat seemed to gleam on the strong column of his neck. He stopped flexing his hands and set them flat on the table. "Once, it was as easy as breathing. But now ... it requires concentration." Because of the blight on Prythian and the toll it had taken on him. "You could have just taken a closer seat," I said. Tamlin gave me a lazy grin. "And miss a chance to show off to a beautiful woman? Never." I smiled down at my plate. "You do look beautiful," he said quietly. "I mean it," he added when my mouth twisted to the side. "Didn't you look in the mirror?" Though his bruise still marred my neck, I had looked pretty. Feminine. I wouldn't go so far as to call myself a beauty, but ... I hadn't cringed. A few months here had done wonders for the awkward sharpness and angles of my face. And I dared say that some kind of light had crept into my eyes--my eyes, not my mother's eyes or Nesta's eyes. Mine. "Thank you," I said, and was grateful to avoid saying anything else as he served me and then himself. When my stomach was full to bursting, I dared to look at him--really look at him--again. Tamlin leaned back in his chair, yet his shoulders were tight, his mouth a thin line. He hadn't been called to the border in a few days--hadn't come back weary and covered in blood since before Fire Night. And yet ... He'd grieved for that nameless Summer Court faerie with the hacked-off wings. What grief and burdens did he bear for whoever else had been lost in this conflict--lost to the blight, or to the attacks on the borders? High Lord--a position he hadn't wanted or expected, yet he'd been forced to bear its weight as best he could. "Come," I said, rising from my chair and tugging on his hand. The calluses scraped against mine, but his fingers tightened as he looked up at me. "I have something for you." "For me," he repeated carefully, but rose. I led him out of the dining room. When I went to drop his hand, he didn't let go. It was enough to keep me walking quickly, as if I could outrun my thundering heart or the sheer immortal presence of him at my side. I brought him down hall after hall until we got to my little painting room, and he finally released my hand as I reached for the key. Cold air bit into my skin without the warmth of his hand around mine. "I knew you'd asked Alis for a key, but I didn't think you actually locked the room," he said behind me. I gave him a narrowed glance over my shoulder as I pushed open the door. "Everyone snoops in this house. I didn't want you or Lucien coming in here until I was ready." I stepped into the darkened room and cleared my throat, a silent request for him to light the candles. It took him longer than I'd seen him need before, and I wondered if shortening the table had somehow drained him more than he'd let on. The Suriel had said the High Lords were Power--and yet ... yet something had to be truly, thoroughly wrong if this was all he could manage. The room gradually flared with light, and I pushed my worry aside as I stepped farther into the room. I took a deep breath and gestured to the easel and the painting I'd put there. I hoped he wouldn't notice the paintings I'd leaned against the walls. He turned in place, staring around him at the room. "I know they're strange," I said, my hands sweating again. I tucked them behind my back. "And I know they're not like--not as good as the ones you have here, but ..." I walked to the painting on the easel. It was an impression, not a lifelike rendering. "I wanted you to see this one," I said, pointing to the smear of green and gold and silver and blue. "It's for you. A gift. For everything you've done." Heat flared in my cheeks, my neck, my ears, as he silently approached the painting. "It's the glen--with the pool of starlight," I said quickly. "I know what it is," he murmured, studying the painting. I backed away a step, unable to bear watching him look at it, wishing I hadn't brought him in here, blaming it on the wine I'd had at dinner, on the stupid dress. He examined the painting for a miserable eternity, then looked away--to the nearest painting leaning against the wall. My gut tightened. A hazy landscape of snow and skeletal trees and nothing else. It looked like ... like nothing, I supposed, to anyone but me. I opened my mouth to explain, wishing I'd turned the others away from view, but he spoke. "That was your forest. Where you hunted." He came closer to the painting, gazing at the bleak, empty cold, the white and gray and brown and black. "This was your life," he clarified. I was too mortified, too stunned, to reply. He walked to the next painting I'd left against the wall. Darkness and dense brown, flickers of ruby red and orange squeezing out between them. "Your cottage at night." I tried to move, to tell him to stop looking at those ones and look at the others I'd laid out, but I couldn't--couldn't even breathe properly as he moved to the next painting. A tanned, sturdy male hand fisted in the hay, the pale pieces of it entwined among strands of brown coated with gold--my hair. My gut twisted. "The man you used to see--in your village." He cocked his head again as he studied the picture, and a low growl slipped out. "While you made love." He stepped back, looking at the row of pictures. "This is the only one with any brightness." Was that ... jealousy? "It was the only escape I had." Truth. I wouldn't apologize for Isaac. Not when Tamlin had just been in the Great Rite. I didn't hold that against him--but if he was going to be jealous of Isaac-- Tamlin must have realized it, too, for he loosed a long, controlled breath before moving to the next painting. Tall shadows of men, bright red dripping off their fists, off their wooden clubs, hovering and filling the edges of the painting as they towered over the curled figure on the floor, the blood leaking from him, the leg at a wrong angle. Tamlin swore. "You were there when they wrecked your father's leg." "Someone had to beg them to stop." Tamlin threw a too-knowing glance in my direction and turned to look at the rest of the paintings. There they were, all the wounds I'd slowly been leeching these few months. I blinked. A few months. Did my family believe that I would be forever away with this so- called dying aunt? At last, Tamlin looked at the painting of the glen and the starlight. He nodded in appreciation. But he pointed to the painting of the snow-veiled woods. "That one. I want that one." "It's cold and melancholy," I said, hiding my wince. "It doesn't suit this place at all." He went up to it, and the smile he gave me was more beautiful than any enchanted meadow or pool of stars. "I want it nonetheless," he said softly. I'd never yearned for anything more than to remove his mask and see the face beneath, to find out whether it matched how I'd dreamed he looked. "Tell me there's some way to help you," I breathed. "With the masks, with whatever threat has taken so much of your power. Tell me--just tell me what I can do to help you." "A human wishes to help a faerie?" "Don't tease me," I said. "Please--just ... tell me." "There's nothing I want you to do, nothing you can do--or anyone. It's my burden to bear." "You don't have to--" "I do. What I have to face, what I endure, Feyre ... you would not survive." "So I'm to live here forever, in ignorance of the true scope of what's happening? If you don't want me to understand what's going on ... would you rather ..." I swallowed hard. "Rather I found someplace else to live? Where I'm not a distraction?" "Didn't Calanmai teach you anything?" "Only that magic makes you into a brute." He laughed, though not entirely with amusement. When I remained silent, he sighed. "No, I don't want you to live somewhere else. I want you here, where I can look after you --where I can come home and know you're here, painting and safe." I couldn't look away from him. "I thought about sending you away at first," he murmured. "Part of me still thinks I should have found somewhere else for you to live. But maybe I was selfish. Even when you made it so clear that you were more interested in ignoring the Treaty or finding a way out of it, I couldn't bring myself to let you go--to find someplace in Prythian where you'd be comfortable enough to not attempt to flee." "Why?" He picked up the small painting of the frozen forest and examined it again. "I've had many lovers," he admitted. "Females of noble birth, warriors, princesses ..." Rage hit me, low and deep in the gut at the thought of them--rage at their titles, their undoubtedly good looks, at their closeness to him. "But they never understood. What it was like, what it is like, for me to care for my people, my lands. What scars are still there, what the bad days feel like." That wrathful jealousy faded away like morning dew as he smiled at my painting. "This reminds me of it." "Of what?" I breathed. He lowered the painting, looking right at me, right into me. "That I'm not alone." I didn't lock my bedroom door that night. <|title|>Chapter 23 <|startofchapter|>The next afternoon I lay on my back in the grass, savoring the warmth of the sunshine filtering through the canopy of leaves, noting how I might incorporate it into my next painting. Lucien, claiming that he had miserable emissary business to attend to, had left Tamlin and me to our own devices, and the High Lord had taken me to yet another beautiful spot in his enchanted forest. But there were no enchantments here--no pools of starlight, no rainbow waterfalls. It was just a grassy glen watched over by a weeping willow, with a clear brook running through it. We lounged in comfortable silence, and I glanced at Tamlin, who dozed beside me. His golden hair and mask glistened bright against the emerald carpet. The delicate arch of his pointed ears made me pause. He opened an eye and smiled lazily at me. "That willow's singing always puts me to sleep." "The what of what?" I said, propping myself on my elbows to stare at the tree above us. Tamlin pointed toward the willow. The branches sighed as they moved in the breeze. "It sings." "I suppose it sings war-camp limericks, too?" He smiled and half sat up, twisting to look at me. "You're human," he said, and I rolled my eyes. "Your senses are still sealed off from everything." I made a face. "Just another of my many shortcomings." But the word--shortcomings --had somehow stopped finding its mark. He plucked a strand of grass from my hair. Heat radiated from my face as his fingers grazed my cheek. "I could make you able to see it," he said. His fingers lingered at the end of my braid, twirling the curl of hair around. "See my world--hear it, smell it." My breathing became shallow as he sat up. "Taste it." His eyes flicked to the fading bruise on my neck. "How?" I asked, heat blooming as he crouched before me. "Every gift comes with a price." I frowned, and he grinned. "A kiss." "Absolutely not!" But my blood raced, and I had to clench my hands in the grass to keep from touching him. "Don't you think it puts me at a disadvantage to not be able to see all this?" "I'm one of the High Fae--we don't give anything without gaining something from it." To my own surprise, I said, "Fine." He blinked, probably expecting me to have fought a little harder. I hid my smile and sat up so that I faced him, our knees touching as we knelt in the grass. I licked my lips, my heart fluttering so quickly it felt as if I had a hummingbird inside my chest. "Close your eyes," he said, and I obeyed, my fingers grappling onto the grass. The birds chattered, and the willow branches sighed. The grass crunched as Tamlin rose up on his knees. I braced myself at the brush of his mouth on one of my eyelids, then on the other. He pulled away, and I was left breathless, the kisses still lingering on my skin. The singing of birds became an orchestra--a symphony of gossip and mirth. I'd never heard so many layers of music, never heard the variations and themes that wove between their arpeggios. And beyond the birdsong, there was an ethereal melody--a woman, melancholy and weary ... the willow. Gasping, I opened my eyes. The world had become richer, clearer. The brook was a near-invisible rainbow of water that flowed over stones as invitingly smooth as silk. The trees were clothed in a faint shimmer that radiated from their centers and danced along the edges of their leaves. There was no tangy metallic stench--no, the smell of magic had become like jasmine, like lilac, like roses. I would never be able to paint it, the richness, the feel ... Maybe fractions of it, but not the whole thing. Magic--everything was magic, and it broke my heart. I looked to Tamlin, and my heart cracked entirely. It was Tamlin, but not. Rather, it was the Tamlin I'd dreamed of. His skin gleamed with a golden sheen, and around his head glowed a circlet of sunshine. And his eyes-- Not merely green and gold, but every hue and variation that could be imagined, as though every leaf in the forest had bled into one shade. This was a High Lord of Prythian --devastatingly handsome, captivating, powerful beyond belief. My breath caught in my throat as I touched the contours of his mask. The cool metal bit into my fingertips, and the emeralds slipped against my callused skin. I lifted my other hand and gently grasped either side of the mask. I pulled lightly. It wouldn't move. He began smiling as I pulled again, and I blinked, dropping my hands. Instantly, the golden, glowing Tamlin vanished, and the one I knew returned. I could still hear the singing of the willow and the birds, but ... "Why can't I see you anymore?" "Because I willed my glamour back into place." "Glamour for what?" "To look normal. Or as normal as I can look with this damned thing," he added, gesturing to the mask. "Being a High Lord, even one with ... limited powers, comes with physical markers, too. It's why I couldn't hide what I was becoming from my brothers-- from anyone. It's still easier to blend in." "But the mask truly can't come off--I mean, are you sure there's no one who knows how to fix what the magic did that night? Even someone in another court?" I don't know why the mask bothered me so greatly. I didn't need to see his entire face to know him. "I'm sorry to disappoint you." "I just ... just want to know what you look like." I wondered when I'd grown so shallow. "What do you think I look like?" I tilted my head to the side. "A strong, straight nose," I said, drawing from what I'd once tried to paint. "High cheekbones that bring out your eyes. Slightly ... slightly arched brows," I finished, blushing. He was grinning so broadly that I could almost see all of his teeth--those fangs nowhere in sight. I tried to think up an excuse for my forwardness, but a yawn crept from me as a sudden weight pressed on my eyes. "What about your part of the bargain?" "What?" He leaned closer, his smile turning wicked. "What about my kiss?" I grabbed his fingers. "Here," I said, and slammed my mouth against the back of his hand. "There's your kiss." Tamlin roared with laughter, but the world blurred, lulling me to sleep. The willow beckoned me to lie down, and I obliged. From far off, I heard Tamlin curse. "Feyre?" Sleep. I wanted sleep. And there was no better place to sleep than right here, listening to the willow and the birds and the brook. I curled on my side, using my arm for a pillow. "I should bring you home," he murmured, but he didn't move to drag me to my feet. Instead, I felt a slight thud in the earth, and the spring rain and new grass scent of him cloyed in my nose as he lay beside me. I tingled with pleasure as he stroked my hair. This was such a lovely dream. I'd never slept so wonderfully before. So warm, nestled beside him. Calm. Faintly, echoing into my world of slumber, he spoke again, his breath caressing my ear. "You're exactly as I dreamed you'd be, too." Darkness swallowed everything. <|title|>Chapter 24 <|startofchapter|>It wasn't the dawn that awoke me, but rather a buzzing noise. I groaned as I sat up in bed and squinted at the squat woman with skin made from tree bark who fussed with my breakfast dishes. "Where's Alis?" I asked, rubbing the sleep from my eyes. Tamlin must have carried me up here--must have carried me the whole way home. "What?" She turned toward me. Her bird mask was familiar. But I would have remembered a faerie with skin like that. Would have painted it already. "Is Alis unwell?" I said, sliding from the bed. This was my room, wasn't it? A quick glance told me yes. "Are you out of your right mind?" the faerie said. I bit my lip. "I am Alis," she clucked, and with a shake of her head, she strode into the bathing room to start my bath. It was impossible. The Alis I knew was fair and plump and looked like a High Fae. I rubbed my eyes with my thumb and forefinger. A glamour--that's what Tamlin had said he wore. His faerie sight had stripped away the glamours I'd been seeing. But why bother to glamour everything? Because I'd been a cowering human, that's why. Because Tamlin knew I would have locked myself in this room and never come out if I'd seen them all for their true selves. Things only got worse when I made my way downstairs to find the High Lord. The hallways were bustling with masked faeries I'd never seen before. Some were tall and humanoid--High Fae like Tamlin--others were ... not. Faeries. I tried to avoid looking at those ones, as they seemed the most surprised to notice my attention. I was almost shaking by the time I reached the dining room. Lucien, mercifully, appeared like Lucien. I didn't ask whether that was because Tamlin had informed him to put up a better glamour or because he didn't bother trying to be something he wasn't. Tamlin lounged in his usual chair but straightened as I lingered in the doorway. "What's wrong?" "There are ... a lot of people--faeries--around. When did they arrive?" I'd almost yelped when I looked out my bedroom window and spotted all the faeries in the garden. Many of them--all with insect masks--pruned the hedges and tended the flowers. Those faeries had been the strangest of all, with their iridescent, buzzing wings sprouting from their backs. And, of course, then there was the green-and-brown skin, and their unnaturally long limbs, and-- Tamlin bit his lip as if to keep from smiling. "They've been here all along." "But ... but I didn't hear anything." "Of course you didn't," Lucien drawled, and twirled one of his daggers between his hands. "We made sure you couldn't see or hear anyone but those who were necessary." I adjusted the lapels of my tunic. "So you mean that ... that when I ran after the puca that night--" "You had an audience," Lucien finished for me. I thought I'd been so stealthy. Meanwhile, I'd been tiptoeing past faeries who had probably laughed their heads off at the blind human following an illusion. Fighting against my rising mortification, I turned to Tamlin. His lips twitched and he clamped them tightly together, but the amusement still danced in his eyes as he nodded. "It was a valiant effort." "But I could see the naga--and the puca, and the Suriel. And--and that faerie whose wings were ... ripped off," I said, wincing inwardly. "Why didn't the glamour apply to them?" His eyes darkened. "They're not members of my court," Tamlin said, "so my glamour didn't keep a hold on them. The puca belongs to the wind and weather and everything that changes. And the naga ... they belong to someone else." "I see," I lied, not quite seeing at all. Lucien chuckled, sensing it, and I glared sidelong at him. "You've been noticeably absent again." He used the dagger to clean his nails. "I've been busy. So have you, I take it." "What's that supposed to mean?" I demanded. "If I offer you the moon on a string, will you give me a kiss, too?" "Don't be an ass," Tamlin said to him with a soft snarl, but Lucien continued laughing, and was still laughing when he left the room. Alone with Tamlin, I shifted on my feet. "So if I were to encounter the Attor again," I said, mostly to avoid the heavy silence, "would I actually see it?" "Yes, and it wouldn't be pleasant." "You said it didn't see me that time, and it certainly doesn't seem like a member of your court," I ventured. "Why?" "Because I threw a glamour over you when we entered the garden," he said simply. "The Attor couldn't see, hear, or smell you." His gaze went to the window beyond me, and he ran a hand through his hair. "I've done all I can to keep you invisible to creatures like the Attor--and worse. The blight is acting up again--and more of these creatures are being freed from their tethers." My stomach turned over. "If you spot one," Tamlin continued, "even if it looks harmless but makes you feel uncomfortable, pretend you don't see it. Don't talk to it. If it hurts you, I ... the results wouldn't be pleasant for it, or for me. You remember what happened with the naga." This was for my own safety, not his amusement. He didn't want me hurt--he didn't want to punish them for hurting me. Even if the naga hadn't been part of his court, had it hurt him to kill them? Realizing he waited for my answer, I nodded. "The ... the blight is growing again?" "So far, only in other territories. You're safe here." "It's not my safety I'm worried about." Tamlin's eyes softened, but his lips became a thin line as he said, "It'll be fine." "Ts it possible that the surge will be temporary?" A fool's hope. Tamlin didn't reply, which was answer enough. If the blight was becoming active again ... I didn't bother to offer my aid. I already knew he wouldn't allow me to help with whatever this conflict was. But I thought of that painting I'd given him, and what he'd said about it ... and wished he would let me in anyway. The next morning, I found a head in the garden. A bleeding male High Fae head--spiked atop a fountain statue of a great heron flapping its wings. The stone was soaked in enough blood to suggest that the head had been fresh when someone had impaled it on the heron's upraised bill. I had been hauling my paints and easel out to the garden to paint one of the beds of irises when I stumbled across it. My tins and brushes had clattered to the gravel. I didn't know where I went as I stared at that still-screaming head, the brown eyes bulging, the teeth broken and bloody. No mask--so he wasn't a part of the Spring Court. Anything else about him, I couldn't discern. His blood was so bright on the gray stone--his mouth open so vulgarly. I backed away a step--and slammed into something warm and hard. I whirled, hands rising out of instinct, but Tamlin's voice said, "It's me," and I stopped cold. Lucien stood beside him, pale and grim. "Not Autumn Court," Lucien said. "I don't recognize him at all." Tamlin's hands clamped on my shoulders as I turned back toward the head. "Neither do I." A soft, vicious growl laced his words, but no claws pricked my skin as he kept gripping me. His hands tightened, though, while Lucien stepped into the small pool in which the statue stood--striding through the red water until he peered up at the anguished face. "They branded him behind the ear with a sigil," Lucien said, swearing. "A mountain with three stars--" "Night Court," Tamlin said too quietly. The Night Court--the northernmost bit of Prythian, if I recalled the mural's map correctly. A land of darkness and starlight. "Why ... why would they do this?" I breathed. Tamlin let go, coming to stand at my side as Lucien climbed the statue to remove the head. I looked toward a blossoming crab apple tree instead. "The Night Court does what it wants," Tamlin said. "They live by their own codes, their own corrupt morals." "They're all sadistic killers," Lucien said. I dared a glance at him; he was now perched on the heron's stone wing. I looked away again. "They delight in torture of every kind-- and would find this sort of stunt to be amusing." "Amusing, but not a message?" I scanned the garden. "Oh, it's a message," Lucien said, and I cringed at the thick, wet sounds of flesh and bone on stone as he yanked the head off. I'd skinned enough animals, but this ... Tamlin put another hand on my shoulder. "To get in and out of our defenses, to possibly commit the crime nearby, with the blood this fresh ..." A splash as Lucien landed in the water again. "It's exactly what the High Lord of the Night Court would find amusing. The bastard." I gauged the distance between the pool and the house. Sixty, maybe seventy feet. That's how close they'd come to us. Tamlin brushed a thumb against my shoulder. "You're still safe here. This was just their idea of a prank." "This isn't connected to the blight?" I asked. "Only in that they know the blight is again awakening--and want us to know they're circling the Spring Court like vultures, should our wards fall further." I must have looked as sick as I felt, because Tamlin added, "I won't let that happen." I didn't have the heart to say that their masks made it fairly clear that nothing could be done against the blight. Lucien splashed out of the fountain, but I couldn't look at him, not with the head he bore, the blood surely on his hands and clothes. "They'll get what's coming to them soon enough. Hopefully the blight will wreck them, too." Tamlin growled at Lucien to take care of the head, and the gravel crunched as Lucien departed. I crouched to pick up my paints and brushes, my hands shaking as I fumbled for a large brush. Tamlin knelt next to me, but his hands closed around mine, squeezing. "You're still safe," he said again. The Suriel's command echoed through my mind. Stay with the High Lord, human. You will be safe. I nodded. "It's court posturing," he said. "The Night Court is deadly, but this was only their lord's idea of a joke. Attacking anyone here--attacking you--would cause more trouble than it's worth for him. If the blight truly does harm these lands, and the Night Court enters our borders, we'll be ready." My knees shook as I rose. Faerie politics, faerie courts ... "Their idea of jokes must have been even more horrible when we were enslaved to you all." They must have tortured us whenever they liked--must have done such unspeakable, awful things to their human pets. A shadow flickered in his eyes. "Some days, I'm very glad I was still a child when my father sent his slaves south of the wall. What I witnessed then was bad enough." I didn't want to imagine. Even now, I still hadn't looked to see if any hints of those long-ago humans had been left behind. I did not think five centuries would be enough to cleanse the stain of the horrors that my people had endured. I should have let it go-- should have, but couldn't. "Do you remember if they were happy to leave?" Tamlin shrugged. "Yes. Yet they had never known freedom, or known the seasons as you do. They didn't know what to do in the mortal world. But yes--most of them were very, very happy to leave." Each word was more ground out than the next. "I was happy to see them go, even if my father wasn't." Despite the stillness with which he stood, his claws poked out from above his knuckles. No wonder he'd been so awkward with me, had no idea what to do with me, when I'd first arrived. But I said quietly, "You're not your father, Tamlin. Or your brothers." He glanced away, and I added, "You never made me feel like a prisoner--never made me feel like little more than chattel." The shadows that flickered in his eyes as he nodded his thanks told me there was more --still more that he had yet to tell me about his family, his life before they'd been killed and this title had been thrust upon him. I wouldn't ask, not with the blight pressing down on him--not until he was ready. He'd given me space and respect; I could offer him no less. Still, I couldn't bring myself to paint that day. <|title|>Chapter 25 <|startofchapter|>Tamlin was called away to one of the borders hours after I found that head--where and why, he wouldn't tell me. But I sensed enough from what he didn't say: the blight was indeed crawling from other courts, directly toward ours. He stayed the night--the first he'd ever spent away--but sent Lucien to inform me that he was alive. Lucien had emphasized that last word enough that I slept terribly, even as a small part of me marveled that Tamlin had bothered to let me know about his well-being. I knew--I knew I was headed down a path that would likely end in my mortal heart being left in pieces, and yet ... And yet I couldn't stop myself. I hadn't been able to since that day with the naga. But seeing that head ... the games these courts played, with people's lives as tokens on a board ... it was an effort to keep food down whenever I thought about it. Yet despite the creeping malice, I awoke the next day to the sound of merry fiddling, and when I looked out the window I found the garden bedecked in ribbons and streamers. On the distant hills, I spied the makings of fires and maypoles being raised. When I asked Alis--whose people, I'd learned, were called the urisk--she simply said, "Summer Solstice. The main celebration used to be at the Summer Court, but ... things are different. So now we have one here, too. You're going." Summer--in the weeks that I'd been painting and dining with Tamlin and wandering the court lands at his side, summer had come. Did my family still truly believe me to be visiting some long-lost aunt? What were they doing with themselves? If it was the solstice, then there would be a small gathering in the village center--nothing religious, of course, though the Children of the Blessed might wander in to try to convert the young people; just some shared food, donated ale from the solitary tavern, and maybe some line dances. The only thing to celebrate was a day's break from the long summer days of planting and tilling. From the decorations around the estate, I could tell this would be something far grander--far more spirited. Tamlin remained gone for most of the day. Worry gnawed at me even as I painted a quick, loose rendering of the streamers and ribbons in the garden. Perhaps it was petty and selfish, given the returning blight, but I also quietly hoped that the solstice didn't require the same rites as Fire Night. I didn't let myself think too much about what I would do if Tamlin had a flock of beautiful faeries lining up for him. It wasn't until late afternoon that I heard Tamlin's deep voice and Lucien's braying laugh echo through the halls all the way to my painting room. Relief sent my chest caving in, but as I rushed to find them, Alis yanked me upstairs. She stripped off my paint- splattered clothes and insisted I change into a flowing, cornflower-blue chiffon gown. She left my hair unbound but wove a garland of pink, white, and blue wildflowers around the crown of my head. I might have felt childish with it on, but in the months I'd been there, my sharp bones and skeletal form had filled out. A woman's body. I ran my hands over the sweeping, soft curves of my waist and hips. I had never thought I would feel anything but muscle and bone. "Cauldron boil me," Lucien whistled as I came down the stairs. "She looks positively Fae." I was too busy looking Tamlin over--scanning for any injury, any sign of blood or mark that the blight might have left--to thank Lucien for the compliment. But Tamlin was clean, almost glowing, completely unarmed--and smiling at me. Whatever he'd gone to deal with had left him unscathed. "You look lovely," Tamlin murmured, and something in his soft tone made me want to purr. I squared my shoulders, disinclined to let him see how much his words or voice or sheer well-being impacted me. Not yet. "I'm surprised I'm even allowed to participate tonight." "Unfortunately for you and your neck," Lucien countered, "tonight's just a party." "Do you lie awake at night to come up with all your witty replies for the following day?" Lucien winked at me, and Tamlin laughed and offered me his arm. "He's right," the High Lord said. I was aware of every inch where we touched, of the hard muscles beneath his green tunic. He led me into the garden, and Lucien followed. "Solstice celebrates when day and night are equal--it's a time of neutrality, when everyone can take down their hair and simply enjoy being a faerie--not High Fae or faerie, just us, and nothing else." "So there's singing and dancing and excessive drinking," Lucien chimed in, falling into step beside me. "And dallying," he added with a wicked grin. Indeed, every brush of Tamlin's body against mine made it harder to avoid the urge to lean into him entirely, to smell him and touch him and taste him. Whether he noticed the heat singeing my neck and face, or heard my uneven heartbeat, he revealed nothing, holding my arm tighter as we walked out of the garden and into the fields beyond. The sun was beginning its final descent when we reached the plateau on which the festivities were to be held. I tried not to gawk at the faeries gathered, even as I was in turn gawked at by them. I'd never seen so many in one place before, at least not without the glamour hiding them from me. Now that my eyes were open to the sight, the exquisite dresses and lithe forms that were shaped and colored and built so strangely and differently were a marvel to behold. Yet what little novelty my own presence by the High Lord's side offered soon wore off--helped by a low, warning growl from Tamlin that sent the others scattering to mind their own business. Table after table of food had been lined up along the far edge of the plateau, and I lost Tamlin while I waited in line to fill a plate, leaving me to try my best not to look like I was some human plaything of his. Music started near the giant, smoking bonfire--fiddles and drums and merry instruments that had me tapping my feet in the grass. Light and joyous and open, the mirthful sister to the bloodthirsty Fire Night. Lucien, of course, excelled at disappearing when I needed him, and so I ate my fill of strawberry shortcake, apple tart, and blueberry pie--no different from summer treats in the mortal realm--alone beneath a sycamore covered with silken lanterns and sparkling ribbons. I didn't mind the solitude--not when I was busy contemplating the way the lanterns and ribbons shone, the shadows they cast; perhaps it would be my next painting. Or maybe I would paint the ethereal faeries beginning to dance. Such angles and colors to them. I wondered if any of them had been the subjects of the painters whose work was displayed in the gallery. I moved only to get myself something to drink. The plateau became more crowded as the sun sank toward the horizon. Across the hills, other bonfires and parties began, their music filtering through the occasional pause in ours. I was pouring myself a goblet of golden sparkling wine when Lucien finally appeared behind me, peering over my shoulder. "I wouldn't drink that if I were you." "Oh?" I said, frowning at the fizzing liquid. "Faerie wine at the solstice," Lucien hinted. "Hmm," I said, taking a sniff. It didn't reek of alcohol. In fact, it smelled like summers spent lying in the grass and bathing in cool pools. I'd never smelled anything so fantastic. "I'm serious," Lucien said as I lifted the glass to my lips, my brows raised. "Remember the last time you ignored my warning?" He poked me in the neck, and I batted his hand away. "I also remember you telling me how witchberries were harmless, and the next thing I knew, I was half-delirious and falling all over myself," I said, recalling the afternoon from a few weeks ago. I'd had hallucinations for hours afterward, and Lucien had laughed himself sick--enough so that Tamlin had chucked him into the reflection pool. I shook away the thought. Today--just for today--I would indeed let my hair down. Today, let caution be damned. Forget the blight hovering at the edges of the court, threatening my High Lord and his lands. Where was Tamlin, anyway? If there had been some threat, surely Lucien would have known--surely they would have called off the celebration. "Well, I mean it this time," Lucien said, and I shifted my goblet out of his reach. "Tam would gut me if he caught you drinking that." "Always looking after your best interests," I said, and pointedly chugged the contents of the glass. It was like a million fireworks exploding inside me, filling my veins with starlight. I laughed aloud, and Lucien groaned. "Human fool," he hissed. But his glamour had been ripped away. His auburn hair burned like hot metal, and his russet eye smoldered like a bottomless forge. That was what I would capture next. "I'm going to paint you," I said, and giggled--actually giggled--as the words popped out. "Cauldron boil and fry me," he muttered, and I laughed again. Before he could stop me, I'd downed another glass of faerie wine. It was the most glorious thing I'd ever tasted. It liberated me from bonds I hadn't known existed. The music became a siren song. The melody was my lodestone, and I was powerless against its lure. With each step, I savored the dampness of the grass beneath my bare feet. I didn't remember when I'd lost my shoes. The sky was an eddy of molten amethyst, sapphire, and ruby, all bleeding into a final pool of onyx. I wanted to swim in it, wanted to bathe in its colors and feel the stars twinkling between my fingers. I stumbled, blinking, and found myself standing at the edge of the ring of dancing. A cluster of musicians played their faerie instruments, and I swayed on my feet as I watched the faeries dancing, circling the bonfire. Not formal dancing. It was like they were as loose as I was. Free. I loved them for it. "Damn it, Feyre," Lucien said, gripping my elbow. "Do you want me to kill myself trying to keep you from impaling your mortal hide on another rock?" "What?" I said, turning to him. The whole world spun with me, delightful and entrancing. "Idiot," he said when he looked at my face. "Drunken idiot." The tempo increased. I wanted to be in the music, wanted to ride its speed and weave between its notes. I could feel the music around me, like a living, breathing thing of wonder and joy and beauty. "Feyre, stop," Lucien said, and grabbed me again. I'd been dancing away, and my body was still swaying toward the pull of the sound. "You stop. Stop being so serious," I said, shaking him off. I wanted to hear the music, wanted to hear it hot off the instruments. Lucien swore as I burst into movement. I skipped between the dancers, twirling my skirts. The seated, masked musicians didn't look up at me as I leaped before them, dancing in place. No chains, no boundaries--just me and the music, dancing and dancing. I wasn't faerie, but I was a part of this earth, and the earth was a part of me, and I would be content to dance upon it for the rest of my life. One of the musicians looked up from his fiddling, and I halted. Sweat gleamed on the strong column of his neck as he rested his chin upon the dark wood of the fiddle. He'd rolled up the sleeves of his shirt, revealing the cords of muscle along his forearms. He had once mentioned that he would have liked to be a traveling minstrel if not a warrior or a High Lord--now, hearing him play, I knew he could have made a fortune from it. "I'm sorry, Tam," Lucien panted, appearing from nowhere. "I left her alone for a little at one of the food tables, and when I caught up to her, she was drinking the wine, and--" Tamlin didn't pause in his playing. His golden hair damp with sweat, he looked marvelously handsome--even though I couldn't see most of his face. He gave me a feral smile as I began to dance in place before him. "I'll look after her," Tamlin murmured above the music, and I glowed, my dancing becoming faster. "Go enjoy yourself." Lucien fled. I shouted over the music, "I don't need a keeper!" I wanted to spin and spin and spin. "No, you don't," Tamlin said, never once stumbling over his playing. How his bow did dance upon the strings, his fingers sturdy and strong, no signs of those claws that I had come to stop fearing ... "Dance, Feyre," he whispered. So I did. I was loosened, a top whirling around and around, and I didn't know who I danced with or what they looked like, only that I had become the music and the fire and the night, and there was nothing that could slow me down. Through it all, Tamlin and his musicians played such joyous music that I didn't think the world could contain it all. I sashayed over to him, my faerie lord, my protector and warrior, my friend, and danced before him. He grinned at me, and I didn't break my dancing as he rose from his seat and knelt before me in the grass, offering up a solo on his fiddle to me. Music just for me--a gift. He played on, his fingers fast and hard upon the strings of his fiddle. My body slithering like a snake, I tipped my head back to the heavens and let Tamlin's music fill all of me. There was a pressure at my waist, and I was swept away in someone's arms as they whisked me back into the ring of dancing. I laughed so hard I thought I'd combust, and when I opened my eyes, I found Tamlin there, spinning me round and round. Everything became a blur of color and sound, and he was the only object in it, tethering me to sanity, to my body, which glowed and burned in every place he touched. I was filled with sunshine. It was like I'd never experienced summer before, like I'd never known who was waiting to emerge from that forest of ice and snow. I didn't want it to end--I never wanted to leave this hilltop. The music came to a close, and, gasping for breath, I glanced at the moon--it was near setting. Sweat slid down every part of my body. Tamlin, panting as well, took my hand. "Time goes faster when you're drunk on faerie wine." "I'm not drunk," I said, snorting. He only chuckled and led me from the dancing. I dug my heels into the ground as we neared the edge of the firelight. "They're starting again," I said, pointing to the dancers gathering before the refreshed musicians. He leaned close, his breath caressing the shell of my ear as he whispered, "I want to show you something better." I stopped objecting. He led me off the hill, navigating his way by moonlight. Whatever path he chose, he did so out of consideration for my bare feet, for only soft grass cushioned my steps. Soon, even the music faded away, replaced by the sighing of trees in the night breeze. "Here," Tamlin said, pausing at the edge of a vast meadow. His hand lingered on my shoulder as we looked out. The high grasses moved like water as the last of the moonlight danced upon them. "What is it?" I breathed, but he put a finger to his lips and beckoned me to look. For a few minutes, there was nothing. Then, from the opposite side of the meadow, dozens of shimmering shapes floated out across the grass, little more than mirages of moonlight. That was when the singing began. It was a collective voice, but in it existed both male and female--two sides of the same coin, singing to each other in a call and response. I raised a hand to my throat as their music rose and they danced. Ghostly and ethereal, they waltzed across the field, no more than slender slants of moonlight. "What are they?" "Will-o'-the-wisps--spirits of air and light," he said softly. "Come to celebrate the solstice." "They're beautiful." His lips grazed my neck as he murmured against my skin, "Dance with me, Feyre." "Really?" I turned and found my face mere inches from his. He cracked a lazy smile. "Really." As though I were nothing but air myself, he pulled me into a sweeping dance. I barely remembered any of the steps I'd learned in childhood, but he compensated for it with his feral grace, never faltering, always sensing any stumble before I made it as we danced across the spirit-riddled field. I was as unburdened as a piece of dandelion fluff, and he was the wind that stirred me about the world. He smiled at me, and I found myself smiling back. I didn't need to pretend, didn't need to be anything but what I was right then, being twirled about the meadow, the will-o'-the- wisps dancing around us like dozens of moons. Our dancing slowed and we stood there, holding each other as we swayed to the songs of the spirits. He rested his chin upon my head and stroked my hair, his fingers grazing the bare skin of my neck. "Feyre," he whispered onto my head. He made my name sound beautiful. "Feyre," he whispered again--not in question, but simply as if he enjoyed saying it. As quickly as they'd appeared, the spirits vanished, taking their music with them. I blinked. The stars were fading, and the sky had turned grayish purple. Tamlin's face was inches from my own. "It's almost dawn." I nodded, mesmerized by the sight of him, the smell and feel of him holding me. I reached up to touch his mask. It was so cold, despite how flushed his skin was just beyond it. My hand shook, and my breathing became shallow as I grazed the skin of his jaw. It was smooth--and hot. He wet his lips, his breathing as uneven as my own. His fingers contracted against the plane of my lower back, and I let him tug me closer to him--until our bodies were touching, and the warmth of him seeped into me. I had to tilt my head back to see his face. His mouth was caught somewhere between a smile and a wince. "What?" I asked, and put a hand on his chest, preparing to shove myself back. But his other hand slipped under my hair, resting at the base of my neck. "I'm thinking I might kiss you," he said quietly, intently. "Then do it." I blushed at my own boldness. But Tamlin only gave that breathy laugh, and leaned in. His lips brushed mine--testing, soft and warm. He pulled back a little. He was still staring at me, and I stared right back as he kissed me again, harder, but nothing like the way he'd kissed my neck. He withdrew more fully this time and watched me. "That's it?" I demanded, and he laughed and kissed me fiercely. My hands went around his neck, pulling him closer, crushing myself against him. His hands roved my back, playing in my hair, grasping my waist, as if he couldn't touch enough of me at once. He let out a low groan. "Come," he said, kissing my brow. "We'll miss it if we don't go now." "Better than will-o'-the-wisps ?" I asked, but he kissed my cheeks, my neck, and finally my lips. I followed him into the trees, through the ever-lightening world. His hand was solid and unmovable around mine as we passed through the low-lying mists, and he helped me up a bare hill slick with dew. We sat atop its crest, and I hid my smile as Tamlin put an arm around my shoulders, tucking me in close. I rested my head against his chest while he toyed with the flowers in my garland. In silence, we stared out over the rolling green expanse. The sky shifted into periwinkle, and the clouds filled with pink light. Then, like a shimmering disk too rich and clear to be described, the sun slipped over the horizon and lined everything with gold. It was like seeing the world being born, and we were the sole witnesses. Tamlin's arm tightened around me, and he kissed the top of my head. I pulled back, looking up at him. The gold in his eyes, bright with the rising sun, flickered. "What?" "My father once told me that I should let my sisters imagine a better life--a better world. And I told him that there was no such thing." I ran my thumb over his mouth, marveling, and shook my head. "I never understood--because I couldn't ... couldn't believe that it was even possible." I swallowed, lowering my hand. "Until now." His throat bobbed. His kiss that time was deep and thorough, unhurried and intent. I let the dawn creep inside me, let it grow with each movement of his lips and brush of his tongue against mine. Tears pricked beneath my closed eyes. It was the happiest moment of my life. <|title|>Chapter 26 <|startofchapter|>The next day, Lucien joined us for lunch--which was breakfast for all of us. Ever since I'd complained about the unnecessary size of the table, we'd taken to dining at a much- reduced version. Lucien kept rubbing at his temples as he ate, unusually silent, and I hid my smile as I asked him, "And where were you last night?" Lucien's metal eye narrowed on me. "I'll have you know that while you two were dancing with the spirits, I was stuck on border patrol." Tamlin gave a pointed cough, and Lucien added, "With some company." He gave me a sly grin. "Rumor has it you two didn't come back until after dawn." I glanced at Tamlin, biting my lip. I'd practically floated into my bedroom that morning. But Tamlin's gaze now roved my face as if searching for any tinge of regret, of fear. Ridiculous. "You bit my neck on Fire Night," I said under my breath. "If I can face you after that, a few kisses are nothing." He braced his forearms on the table as he leaned closer to me. "Nothing?" His eyes flicked to my lips. Lucien shifted in his seat, muttering to the Cauldron to spare him, but I ignored him. "Nothing," I repeated a bit distantly, watching Tamlin's mouth move, so keenly aware of every movement he made, resenting the table between us. I could almost feel the warmth of his breath. "Are you sure?" he murmured, intent and hungry enough that I was glad I was sitting. He could have had me right there, on top of that table. I wanted his broad hands running over my bare skin, wanted his teeth scraping against my neck, wanted his mouth all over me. "I'm trying to eat," Lucien said, and I blinked, the air whooshing out of me. "But now that I have your attention, Tamlin," he snapped, though the High Lord was looking at me again--devouring me with his eyes. I could hardly sit still, could hardly stand the clothes scratching my too-hot skin. With some effort, Tamlin glanced back at his emissary. Lucien shifted in his seat. "Not to be the bearer of truly bad tidings, but my contact at the Winter Court managed to get a letter to me." Lucien took a steadying breath, and I wondered--wondered if being emissary also meant being spymaster. And wondered why he was bothering to say this in my presence at all. The smile instantly faded from Tamlin's face. "The blight," Lucien said tightly, softly. "It took out two dozen of their younglings. Two dozen, all gone." He swallowed. "It just ... burned through their magic, then broke apart their minds. No one in the Winter Court could do anything--no one could stop it once it turned its attention toward them. Their grief is ... unfathomable. My contact says other courts are being hit hard--though the Night Court, of course, manages to remain unscathed. But the blight seems to be sending its wickedness this way--farther south with every attack." All the warmth, all the sparkling joy, drained from me like blood down a drain. "The blight can ... can truly kill people?" I managed to say. Younglings. It had killed children, like some storm of darkness and death. And if offspring were as rare as Alis had claimed, the loss of so many would be more devastating than I could imagine. Tamlin's eyes were shadowed, and he slowly shook his head--as if trying to clear the grief and shock of those deaths from him. "The blight is capable of hurting us in ways you --" He shot to his feet so quickly that his chair flipped over. He unsheathed his claws and snarled at the open doorway, canines long and gleaming. The house, usually full of the whispering skirts and chatter of servants, had gone silent. Not the pregnant silence of Fire Night, but rather a trembling quiet that made me want to scramble under the table. Or just start running. Lucien swore and drew his sword. "Get Feyre to the window--by the curtains," Tamlin growled to Lucien, not taking his eyes off the open doors. Lucien's hand gripped my elbow, dragging me out of my chair. "What's--" I started, but Tamlin growled again, the sound echoing through the room. I snatched one of the knives off the table and let Lucien lead me to the window, where he pushed me against the velvet drapes. I wanted to ask why he didn't bother hiding me behind them, but the fox-masked faerie just pressed his back into me, pinning me between him and the wall. The tang of magic shoved itself up my nostrils. Though his sword was pointed at the floor, Lucien's grip tightened on it until his knuckles turned white. Magic--a glamour. To conceal me, to make me a part of Lucien--invisible, hidden by the faerie's magic and scent. I peered over his shoulder at Tamlin, who took a long breath and sheathed his claws and fangs, his baldric of knives appearing from thin air across his chest. But he didn't draw any of the knives as he righted his chair and slouched in it, picking at his nails. As if nothing were happening. But someone was coming, someone awful enough to frighten them--someone who would want to hurt me if they knew I was here. The hissing voice of the Attor slithered through my memory. There were worse creatures than it, Tamlin had told me. Worse than the naga, and the Suriel, and the Bogge, too. Footsteps sounded from the hall. Even, strolling, casual. Tamlin continued cleaning his nails, and in front of me, Lucien assumed a position of appearing to be looking out the window. The footsteps grew louder--the scuff of boots on marble tiles. And then he appeared. No mask. He, like the Attor, belonged to something else. Someone else. And worse ... I'd met him before. He'd saved me from those three faeries on Fire Night. With steps that were too graceful, too feline, he approached the dining table and stopped a few yards from the High Lord. He was exactly as I remembered him, with his fine, rich clothing cloaked in tendrils of night: an ebony tunic brocaded with gold and silver, dark pants, and black boots that went to his knees. I'd never dared to paint him-- and now knew I would never have the nerve to. "High Lord," the stranger crooned, inclining his head slightly. Not a bow. Tamlin remained seated. With his back to me, I couldn't see his face, but Tamlin's voice was laced with the promise of violence as he said, "What do you want, Rhysand?" Rhysand smiled--heartbreaking in its beauty--and put a hand on his chest. "Rhysand? Come now, Tamlin. I don't see you for forty-nine years, and you start calling me Rhysand? Only my prisoners and my enemies call me that." His grin widened as he finished, and something in his countenance turned feral and deadly, more so than I'd ever seen Tamlin look. Rhysand turned, and I held my breath as he ran an eye over Lucien. "A fox mask. Appropriate for you, Lucien." "Go to Hell, Rhys," Lucien snapped. "Always a pleasure dealing with the rabble," Rhysand said, and faced Tamlin again. I still didn't breathe. "I hope I wasn't interrupting." "We were in the middle of lunch," Tamlin said--his voice void of the warmth to which I'd become accustomed. The voice of the High Lord. It turned my insides cold. "Stimulating," Rhysand purred. "What are you doing here, Rhys?" Tamlin demanded, still in his seat. "I wanted to check up on you. I wanted to see how you were faring. If you got my little present." "Your present was unnecessary." "But a nice reminder of the fun days, wasn't it?" Rhysand clicked his tongue and surveyed the room. "Almost half a century holed up in a country estate. I don't know how you managed it. But," he said, facing Tamlin again, "you're such a stubborn bastard that this must have seemed like a paradise compared to Under the Mountain. I suppose it is. I'm surprised, though: forty-nine years, and no attempts to save yourself or your lands. Even now that things are getting interesting again." "There's nothing to be done," conceded Tamlin, his voice low. Rhysand approached Tamlin, each movement smooth as silk. His voice dropped into a whisper--an erotic caress of sound that brought heat to my cheeks. "What a pity that you must endure the brunt of it, Tamlin--and an even greater pity that you're so resigned to your fate. You might be stubborn, but this is pathetic. How different the High Lord is from the brutal war-band leader of centuries ago." Lucien interrupted, "What do you know about anything? You're just Amarantha's whore." "Her whore I might be, but not without my reasons." I flinched as his voice whetted itself into an edge. "At least I haven't bided my time among the hedges and flowers while the world has gone to Hell." Lucien's sword rose slightly. "If you think that's all I've been doing, you'll soon learn otherwise." "Little Lucien. You certainly gave them something to talk about when you switched to Spring. Such a sad thing, to see your lovely mother in perpetual mourning over losing you." Lucien pointed his sword at Rhysand. "Watch your filthy mouth." Rhysand laughed--a lover's laugh, low and soft and intimate. "Is that any way to speak to a High Lord of Prythian?" My heart stopped dead. That was why those faeries had run off on Fire Night. To cross him would have been suicide. And from the way darkness seemed to ripple from him, from those violet eyes that burned like stars ... "Come now, Tamlin, speaking to me like that?" Rhysand said. "Shouldn't you reprimand your lackey for "I don't enforce rank in my court," Tamlin said. "Still?" Rhysand crossed his arms. "But it's so entertaining when they grovel. I suppose your father never bothered to show you." "This isn't the Night Court," Lucien hissed. "And you have no power here--so clear out. Amarantha's bed is growing cold." I tried not to breathe too loudly. Rhysand--he'd been the one to send that head. As a gift. I flinched. Was the Night Court where this woman--this Amarantha--was located, too? Rhysand snickered, but then he was upon Lucien, too fast for me to follow with my human eyes, growling in his face. Lucien pressed me into the wall with his back, hard enough that I stifled a cry as I was squished against the wood. "I was slaughtering on the battlefield before you were even born," Rhysand snarled. Then, as quickly as he had come, he withdrew, casual and careless. No, I would never dare to paint that dark, immortal grace--not in a hundred years. "Besides," he said, stuffing his hands into his pockets, "who do you think taught your beloved Tamlin the finer aspects of swords and females? You can't truly believe he learned everything in his father's little war-camps." Tamlin rubbed his temples. "Save it for another time, Rhys. You'll see me soon enough." Rhysand meandered toward the door. "She's already preparing for you. Given your current state, I think I can safely report that you've already been broken and will reconsider her offer." Lucien's breath hitched as Rhysand passed the table. The High Lord of the Night Court ran a finger along the back of my chair--a casual gesture. "I'm looking forward to seeing your face when you--" Rhysand studied the table. Lucien went stick-straight, pressing me harder against the wall. The table was still set for three, my half-eaten plate of food sitting right before him. "Where's your guest?" Rhysand asked, lifting my goblet and sniffing it before setting it down again. "I sent them off when I sensed your arrival," Tamlin lied coolly. Rhysand now faced the High Lord, and his perfect face was void of emotion before his brows rose. A flicker of excitement--perhaps even disbelief--flashed across his features, but he whipped his head to Lucien. Magic seared my nostrils, and I stared at Rhysand in undiluted terror as his face contorted with rage. "You dare glamour me?" he growled, his violet eyes burning as they bore into my own. Lucien just pressed me harder into the wall. Tamlin's chair groaned as it was shoved back. He rose, claws at the ready, deadlier than any of the knives strapped to him. Rhysand's face became a mask of calm fury as he stared and stared at me. "I remember you," he purred. "It seems like you ignored my warning to stay out of trouble." He turned to Tamlin. "Who, pray tell, is your guest?" "My betrothed," Lucien answered. "Oh? Here I was, thinking you still mourned your commoner lover after all these centuries," Rhysand said, stalking toward me. The sunlight didn't gleam on the metallic threads of his tunic, as if it balked from the darkness pulsing from him. Lucien spat at Rhysand's feet and shoved his sword between us. Rhysand's venom-coated smile grew. "You draw blood from me, Lucien, and you'll learn how quickly Amarantha's whore can make the entire Autumn Court bleed. Especially its darling Lady." The color leached from Lucien's face, but he held his ground. It was Tamlin who answered. "Put your sword down, Lucien." Rhysand ran an eye over me. "I knew you liked to stoop low with your lovers, Lucien, but I never thought you'd actually dabble with mortal trash." My face burned. Lucien was trembling--with rage or fear or sorrow, I couldn't tell. "The Lady of the Autumn Court will be grieved indeed when she hears of her youngest son. If I were you, I'd keep your new pet well away from your father." "Leave, Rhys," Tamlin commanded, standing a few feet behind the High Lord of the Night Court. And yet he didn't make a move to attack, despite the claws, despite Rhysand still approaching me. Perhaps a battle between two High Lords could tear this manor to its foundations--and leave only dust in its wake. Or perhaps, if Rhysand was indeed this woman's lover, the retaliation from hurting him would be too great. Especially with the added burden of facing the blight. Rhysand brushed Lucien aside as if he were a curtain. There was nothing between us now, and the air was sharp and cold. But Tamlin remained where he was, and Lucien didn't so much as blink as Rhysand, with horrific gentleness, pried the knife from my hands and sent it scattering across the room. "That won't do you any good, anyway," Rhysand said to me. "If you were wise, you would be screaming and running from this place, from these people. It's a wonder that you're still here, actually." My confusion must have been written across my face, for Rhysand laughed loudly. "Oh, she doesn't know, does she?" I trembled, unable to find words or courage. "You have seconds, Rhys," Tamlin warned. "Seconds to get out." "If I were you, I wouldn't speak to me like that." Against my volition, my body straightened, every muscle going taut, my bones straining. Magic, but deeper than that. Power that seized everything inside me and took control: even my blood flowed where he willed it. I couldn't move. An invisible, talon-tipped hand scraped against my mind. And I knew --one push, one swipe of those mental claws, and who I was would cease to exist. "Let her go," Tamlin said, bristling, but didn't advance forward. A kind of panic had entered his eyes, and he glanced from me to Rhysand. "Enough." "I'd forgotten that human minds are as easy to shatter as eggshells," Rhysand said, and ran a finger across the base of my throat. I shuddered, my eyes burning. "Look at how delightful she is--look how she's trying not to cry out in terror. It would be quick, I promise." Had I retained any semblance of control over my body, I might have vomited. "She has the most delicious thoughts about you, Tamlin," he said. "She's wondered about the feeling of your fingers on her thighs--between them, too." He chuckled. Even as he said my most private thoughts, even as I burned with outrage and shame, I trembled at the grip still on my mind. Rhysand turned to the High Lord. "I'm curious: Why did she wonder if it would feel good to have you bite her breast the way you bit her neck?" "Let. Her. Go." Tamlin's face was twisted with such feral rage that it struck a different, deeper chord of terror in me. "If it's any consolation," Rhysand confided to him, "she would have been the one for you--and you might have gotten away with it. A bit late, though. She's more stubborn than you are." Those invisible claws lazily caressed my mind again--then vanished. I sank to the floor, curling over my knees as I reeled in everything that I was, as I tried to keep from sobbing, from screaming, from emptying my stomach onto the floor. "Amarantha will enjoy breaking her," Rhysand observed to Tamlin. "Almost as much as she'll enjoy watching you as she shatters her bit by bit." Tamlin was frozen, his arms--his claws--hanging limply at his side. I'd never seen him look like that. "Please" was all that Tamlin said. "Please what?" Rhysand said--gently, coaxingly. Like a lover. "Don't tell Amarantha about her," Tamlin said, his voice strained. "And why not? As her whore," he said with a glance tossed in Lucien's direction, "I should tell her everything." "Please," Tamlin managed, as if it were difficult to breathe. Rhysand pointed at the ground, and his smile became vicious. "Beg, and I'll consider not telling Amarantha." Tamlin dropped to his knees and bowed his head. "Lower." Tamlin pressed his forehead to the floor, his hands sliding along the floor toward Rhysand's boots. I could have wept with rage at the sight of Tamlin being forced to bow to someone, at the sight of my High Lord being put so low. Rhysand pointed at Lucien. "You too, fox-boy." Lucien's face was dark, but he lowered himself to his knees, then touched his head to the ground. I wished for the knife Rhysand had chucked away, for anything with which to kill him. I stopped shaking long enough to hear Rhys speak again. "Are you doing this for your sake, or for hers?" he pondered, then shrugged, as if he weren't forcing a High Lord of Prythian to grovel. "You're far too desperate, Tamlin. It's off-putting. Becoming High Lord made you so boring." "Are you going to tell Amarantha?" Tamlin said, keeping his face on the floor. Rhysand smirked. "Perhaps I'll tell her, perhaps I won't." In a flash of motion too fast for me to detect, Tamlin was on his feet, fangs dangerously close to Rhysand's face. "None of that," Rhysand said, clicking his tongue and lightly shoving Tamlin away with a single hand. "Not with a lady present." His eyes shifted to my face. "What's your name, love?" Giving him my name--and my family name--would lead only to more pain and suffering. He might very well find my family and drag them into Prythian to torment, just to amuse himself. But he could steal my name from my mind if I hesitated for too long. Keeping my mind blank and calm, I blurted the first name that came to mind, a village friend of my sisters' whom I'd never spoken to and whose face I couldn't recall. "Clare Beddor." My voice was nothing more than a gasp. Rhysand turned back to Tamlin, unfazed by the High Lord's proximity. "Well, this was entertaining. The most fun I've had in ages, actually. I'm looking forward to seeing you three Under the Mountain. I'll give Amarantha your regards." Then Rhysand vanished into nothing--as if he'd stepped through a rip in the world-- leaving us alone in horrible, trembling silence. <|title|>Chapter 27 <|startofchapter|>I lay in bed, watching the pools of moonlight shift on the floor. It was an effort not to dwell on Tamlin's face as he ordered me and Lucien to leave and shut the door to the dining room. Had I not been so bent on piecing myself together, I might have stayed. Might have even asked Lucien about it--about everything. But, like the coward I was, I bolted to my room, where Alis was waiting with a cup of molten chocolate. It was even more of an effort not to recall the roaring that rattled the chandelier or the cracking of shattering furniture that echoed through the house. I didn't go to dinner. I didn't want to know if there was a dining room to eat in. And I couldn't bring myself to paint. The house had been quiet for some time now, but the ripples of Tamlin's rage echoed through it, reverberating in the wood and stone and glass. I didn't want to think about all that Rhysand had said--didn't want to think about the looming storm of the blight, or Under the Mountain--whatever it was called--and why I might be forced to go there. And Amarantha--at last a name to go with the female presence that stalked their lives. I shuddered each time I considered how deadly she must be to command the High Lords of Prythian. To hold Rhysand's leash and to make Tamlin beg to keep me hidden from her. The door creaked, and I jerked upright. Moonlight glimmered on gold, but my heart didn't ease as Tamlin shut the door and approached my bed. His steps were slow and heavy--and he didn't speak until he'd taken a seat on the edge of the mattress. "I'm sorry," he said. His voice was hoarse and empty. "It's fine," I lied, clenching the sheets in my hands. If I thought too long about it, I could still feel the claw-tipped caresses of Rhysand's power scraping against my mind. "It's not fine," he growled, and grabbed one of my hands, wrenching my fingers from the sheets. "It's ..." He hung his head, sighing deeply as his hand tightened on mine. "Feyre ... I wish ..." He shook his head and cleared his throat. "I'm sending you home, Feyre." Something inside me splintered. "What?" "I'm sending you home," he repeated, and though his words were stronger--louder-- they trembled a bit. "What about the terms of the Treaty--" "I have taken on your life-debt. Should someone come inquiring after the broken laws, I'll take responsibility for Andras's death." "But you once said that there was no other loophole. The Suriel said there was no--" A snarl. "If they have a problem with it, they can tell me." And wind up in ribbons. My chest caved in. Leaving--free. "Did I do something wrong--" He lifted my hand to press it to his lower cheek. He was so invitingly warm. "You did nothing wrong." He turned his face to kiss my palm. "You were perfect," he murmured onto my skin, then lowered my hand. "Then why do I have to go?" I yanked my hand away. "Because there are ... there are people who would hurt you, Feyre. Hurt you because of what you are to me. I thought I would be able to handle them, to shield you from it, but after today ... I can't. So you need to go home--far from here. You'll be safe there." "I can hold my own, and--" "You cant," he said, and his voice wobbled. "Because I can't." He seized my face in both hands. "I can't even protect myself against them, against what's happening in Prythian." I felt every word as it passed from his mouth and onto my lips, a rush of hot, frantic air. "Even if we stood against the blight ... they would hunt you down--she would find a way to kill you." "Amarantha." He bristled at the name but nodded. "Who is--" "When you get home," he cut in, "don't tell anyone the truth about where you were; let them believe the glamour. Don't tell them who I am; don't tell them where you stayed. Her spies will be looking for you." "I don't understand." I grabbed his forearm and squeezed it tight. "Tell me--" "You have to go home, Feyre." Home. It wasn't my home--it was Hell. "I want to stay with you," I whispered, my voice breaking. "Treaty or no treaty, blight or no blight." He ran a hand over his face. His fingers contracted when they met with his mask. "I know." "So let me--" "There's no debate," he snarled, and I glared at him. "Don't you understand?" He shot to his feet. "Rhys was the start of it. Do you want to be here when the Attor returns? Do you want to know what kind of creatures the Attor answers to? Things like the Bogge-- and worse." "Let me help you--" "No." He paced before the bed. "Didn't you read between the lines today?" I hadn't, but I lifted my chin and crossed my arms. "So you're sending me away because I'm useless in a fight?" "I'm sending you away because it makes me sick thinking about you in their hands!" Silence fell, filled only by the sounds of his heavy breathing. He sank onto the bed and pressed the heels of his palms into his eyes. His words echoed through me, melting my anger, turning everything inside me watery and frail. "How ... how long do I have to go away for?" He didn't reply. "A week?" No answer. "A month?" He shook his head slowly. My upper lip curled, but I forced myself into neutrality. "A year?" That much time away from him ... "I don't know." "But not forever, right?" Even if the blight spread to the Spring Court again, even if it could shred me apart ... I would come back. He brushed the hair from my face. I shook him off. "I suppose it'll be easier if I'm gone," I said, looking away from him. "Who wants someone around who's so covered in thorns?" "Thorns?" "Thorny. Prickly. Sour. Contrary." He leaned forward and kissed me lightly. "Not forever," he said onto my mouth. And though I knew it was a lie, I put my arms around his neck and kissed him. He pulled me onto his lap, holding me tightly against him as his lips parted mine. I became aware of every pore in my body when his tongue entered my mouth. Though the horror of Rhysand's magic still tore at me, I pushed Tamlin onto the bed, straddling him, pinning him as if it would somehow keep me from leaving, as if it would make time stop entirely. His hands rested on my hips, and their heat singed me through the thin silk of my nightgown. My hair fell around our faces like a curtain. I couldn't kiss him fast enough, hard enough to express the rushing need within me. He growled softly and deftly flipped us over, spreading me beneath him as he wrenched his lips from my mouth and made a trail of kisses down my neck. My entire world constricted to the touch of his lips on my skin. Everything beyond them, beyond him, was a void of darkness and moonlight. My back arched as he reached the spot he'd once bitten, and I dragged my hands through his hair, savoring the silken smoothness. He traced the arc of my hipbones, lingering at the edge of my undergarments. My nightgown had become hitched around my waist, but I didn't care. I hooked my bare legs around his, running my feet down the hard muscles of his calves. He breathed my name onto my chest, one of his hands exploring the plane of my torso, rising up to the slope of my breast. I trembled, anticipating the feel of his hand there, and his mouth found mine again as his fingers stopped just below. His kissing was slower this time--gentler. The fingertips of his other hand slipped beneath the waist of my undergarment, and I sucked in a breath. He hesitated at the sound, pulling back slightly. But I bit his lip in a silent command that had him growling into my mouth. With one long claw, he shredded through silk and lace, and my undergarment fell away in pieces. The claw retracted, and his kiss deepened as his fingers slid between my legs, coaxing and teasing. I ground against his hand, yielding completely to the writhing wildness that had roared alive inside me, and breathed his name onto his skin. He paused again--his fingers retracting--but I grabbed him, pulling him farther on top of me. I wanted him now--I wanted the barriers of our clothing to vanish, I wanted to taste his sweat, wanted to become full of him. "Don't stop," I gasped out. I--" he said thickly, resting his brow between my breasts as he shuddered. "If we keep going, I won't be able to stop at all." I sat up and he watched me, hardly breathing. But I kept my eyes on his, my own breathing becoming steady as I raised my nightgown over my head and tossed it to the floor. Utterly naked before him, I watched his gaze travel to my bare breasts, peaked against the chill night, to my abdomen, to between my thighs. A ravenous, unyielding sort of hunger passed over his face. I bent a leg and slid it to the side, a silent invitation. He let out a low growl--and slowly, with predatory intent, raised his gaze to mine again. The full force of that wild, unrelenting High Lord's power focused solely on me--and I felt the storm contained beneath his skin, so capable of sweeping away everything I was, even in its lessened state. But I could trust him, trust myself to weather that mighty power. I could throw all that I was at him and he wouldn't balk. "Give me everything," I breathed. He lunged, a beast freed of its tether. We were a tangle of limbs and teeth, and I tore at his clothes until they were on the floor, then tore at his skin until I marked him down his back, his arms. His claws were out, but devastatingly gentle on my hips as he slid down between my thighs and feasted on me, stopping only after I shuddered and fractured. I was moaning his name when he sheathed himself inside me in a powerful, slow thrust that had me splintering around him. We moved together, unending and wild and burning, and when I went over the edge the next time, he roared and went with me. I fell asleep in his arms, and when I awoke a few hours later, we made love again, lazily and intently, a slow-burning smolder to the wildfire of earlier. Once we were both spent, panting and sweat-slicked, we lay in silence for a time, and I breathed in the smell of him, earthy and crisp. I would never be able to capture that--never be able to paint the feel and taste of him, no matter how many times I tried, no matter how many colors I used. Tamlin traced idle circles on the plane of my stomach and murmured, "We should sleep. You have a long journey tomorrow." "Tomorrow?" I sat upright, not at all minding my nakedness, not after he'd seen everything, tasted everything. His mouth was a hard line. "At dawn." "But it's--" He sat up in a smooth motion. "Please, Feyre." Please. Tamlin had bowed before Rhysand. For my sake. He shifted toward the edge of the bed. "Where are you going?" He looked over his shoulder at me. "If I stay, you won't get any sleep." "Stay," I said. "I promise to keep my hands to myself." Lie--such an outright lie. He gave me a half smile that told me he knew it, too, but nestled down, tugging me into his arms. I wrapped an arm around his waist and rested my head in the hollow of his shoulder. He idly stroked my hair. I didn't want to sleep--didn't want to lose a minute with him --but an immense exhaustion was pulling me away from consciousness, until all I knew was the touch of his fingers in my hair and the sounds of his breathing. I was leaving. Just when this place had become more than a sanctuary, when the command of the Suriel had become a blessing and Tamlin far, far more than a savior or friend, I was leaving. It could be years until I saw this house again, years until I smelled his rose garden, until I saw those gold-flecked eyes. Home--this was home. As consciousness left me at last, I thought I heard him speak, his mouth close to my ear. "I love you," he whispered, and kissed my brow. "Thorns and all." He was gone when I awoke, and I was certain I had dreamed it. <|title|>Chapter 28 <|startofchapter|>There wasn't much to my packing and farewells. I was somewhat surprised when Alis clothed me in an outfit very unlike my usual garb--frilly and confining and binding in all the wrong places. Some mortal fashion among the wealthy, no doubt. The dress was made up of layers of pale pink silk, accented with white and blue lace. Alis placed a short, lightweight jacket of white linen on me, and atop my head she angled an absurd little ivory hat, clearly for decoration. I half expected a parasol to go with it. I said as much to Alis, who clicked her tongue. "Shouldn't you be giving me a weepy farewell?" I tugged at the lace gloves--useless and flimsy. "I don't like good-byes. If I could, I'd just walk out and not say anything." Alis gave me a long look. "I don't like them, either." I went to the door, but despite myself, I said, "I hope you get to be with your nephews again soon." "Make the most of your freedom" was all she said. Downstairs, Lucien snorted at the sight of me. "Those clothes are enough to convince me I never want to enter the human realm." "I'm not sure the human realm would know what to do with you," I said. Lucien's smile was edged, his shoulders tight as he gave a sharp look behind me to where Tam was waiting in front of a gilded carriage. When he turned back, that metal eye narrowed. "I thought you were smarter than this." "Good-bye to you, too," I said. Friend indeed. It wasn't my choice, or my fault that they'd kept the bulk of their conflict from me. Even if I could do nothing against the blight, or against the creatures, or against Amarantha--whoever she was. Lucien shook his head, his scar stark in the bright sun, and stalked toward Tamlin, despite the High Lord's warning growl. "You're not even going to give her a few more days? Just a few--before you send her back to that human cesspit?" Lucien demanded. "This isn't up for debate," Tamlin snapped, pointing at the house. "I'll see you at lunch." Lucien stared him down for a moment, spat on the ground, and stormed up the stairs. Tamlin didn't reprimand him. I might have thought more on Lucien's words, might have shouted a retort after him, but ... My chest hollowed out as I faced Tamlin in front of the gilded carriage, my hands sweaty within the gloves. "Remember what I told you," he said. I nodded, too busy memorizing the lines of his face to reply. Had he meant what I thought he'd said last night--that he loved me? I shifted, already aching in the little white pumps into which Alis had stuffed my poor feet. "The mortal realm remains safe--for you, for your family." I nodded, wondering whether he might have tried to persuade me to leave our territory, to sail south, but understood that I would have refused to be so far from the wall, from him. That going back to my family was as far as I would allow to be sent from his side. "My paintings--they're yours," I said, unable to come up with anything better to express how I felt, what it did to me to be sent away, and how terrified I was of the carriage looming behind me. He lifted my chin with a finger. "I will see you again." He kissed me, and pulled away too quickly. I swallowed hard, fighting the burning in my eyes. I love you, Feyre. I turned before my vision blurred, but he was immediately there to help me into the opulent carriage. He watched me take my seat through the open door, his face a mask of calm. "Ready?" No, no, I wasn't ready, not after last night, not after all these months. But I nodded. If Rhysand came back, if this Amarantha person was indeed such a threat that I would only be another body for Tamlin to defend ... I needed to go. He shut the door, sealing me inside with a click that sounded through me. He leaned through the open window to caress my cheek--and I could have sworn that I felt my heart crack. The footman snapped the whip. Tamlin's fingers brushed my mouth. The carriage jolted as the six white horses started into a walk. I bit my lip to keep it from wobbling. Tamlin smiled at me one last time. "I love you," he said, and stepped away. I should say it--I should say those words, but they got stuck in my throat, because ... because of what he had to face, because he might not find me again despite his promise, because ... because beneath it all, he was an immortal, and I would grow old and die. And maybe he meant it now, and perhaps last night had been as altering for him as it had been for me, but ... I would not become a burden to him. I would not become another weight pressing upon his shoulders. So I said nothing as the carriage moved. And I did not look back as we passed through the manor gates and into the forest beyond. Almost as soon as the carriage entered the woods, the sparkle of magic stuffed itself up my nose and I was dragged into a deep sleep. I was furious when I jerked awake, wondering why it had been at all necessary, but the air was full of the thunderous clopping of hooves against a flagstone path. Rubbing my eyes, I peered out the window to see a sloping drive lined with conical hedges and irises. I had never been here before. I took in as many details as I could as the carriage came to a stop before a chateau of white marble and emerald roofs--nearly as large as Tamlin's manor. The faces of the approaching servants were unfamiliar, and I kept my face blank as I gripped the footman's hand and stepped out of the carriage. Human. He was utterly human, with his rounded ears, his ruddy face, his clothes. The other servants were human, too--all of them restless, not at all like the utter stillness with which the High Fae held themselves. Unfinished, graceless creatures of earth and blood. The servants were eyeing me but keeping back--shrinking away. Did I look so grand, then? I straightened at the flurry of motion and color that burst from the front doors. I recognized my sisters before they saw me. They approached, smoothing their fine dresses, their brows rising at the gilded carriage. That cracking, caved-in feeling in my chest worsened. Tamlin had said he'd taken care of my family, but this ... Nesta spoke first, curtsying low. Elain followed suit. "Welcome to our home," Nesta said a bit flatly, her eyes on the ground. "Lady ..." I let out a stark laugh. "Nesta," I said, and she went rigid. I laughed again. "Nesta, don't you recognize your own sister?" Elain gasped. "Feyre?" She reached for me, but paused. "What of Aunt Ripleigh, then? Is she ... dead?" That was the story, I remembered--that I'd gone to care for a long-lost, wealthy aunt. I nodded slowly. Nesta took in my clothes and carriage, the pearls that were woven into her gold-brown hair gleaming in the sunlight. "She left you her fortune," Nesta stated flatly. It wasn't a question. "Feyre, you should have told us!" Elain said, still gaping. "Oh, how awful--and you had to endure losing her all on your own, you poor thing. Father will be devastated that he didn't get to pay his respects." Such ... such simple things: relatives dying and fortunes being left and paying respect to the dead. And yet--yet ... a weight I hadn't realized I'd still been carrying eased. These were the only things that worried them now. "Why are you being so quiet?" Nesta said, keeping her distance. I'd forgotten how cunning her eyes were, how cold. She'd been made differently, from something harder and stronger than bone and blood. She was as different from the humans around us as I had become. "I'm ... glad to see how well your own fortunes have improved," I managed. "What happened?" The driver--glamoured to look human, no mask in sight--began unloading trunks for the footmen. I hadn't known Tamlin had sent me off with belongings. Elain beamed. "Didn't you get our letters?" She didn't remember--or maybe she'd never actually known, then, that I wouldn't have been able to read them, anyway. When I shook my head, she complained about the uselessness of the post and then said, "Oh, you'll never believe it! Almost a week after you went to care for Aunt Ripleigh, some stranger appeared at our door and asked Father to invest his money for him! Father was hesitant because the offer was so good, but the stranger insisted, so Father did it. He gave us a trunk of gold just for agreeing! Within a month, he'd doubled the man's investment, and then money started pouring in. And you know what? All those ships we lost were found in Bharat, complete with Father's profits!" Tamlin--Tamlin had done that for them. I ignored the growing hollowness in my chest. "Feyre, you look as dumbfounded as we were," Elain said, hooking elbows with me. "Come inside. We'll show you the house! We don't have a room decorated for you, because we thought you'd be with poor old Aunt Ripleigh for months yet, but we have so many bedrooms that you can sleep in a different one each night if you wish!" I glanced over my shoulder at Nesta, who watched me with a carefully blank face. So she hadn't married Tomas Mandray after all. "Father will likely faint when he sees you," Elain babbled on, patting my hand as she escorted me toward the main door. "Oh, maybe he'll throw a ball in your honor, too!" Nesta fell into step behind us, a quiet, stalking presence. I didn't want to know what she was thinking. I wasn't certain whether I should be furious or relieved that they'd gotten on so well without me--and whether Nesta was wondering the same. Horseshoes clopped, and the carriage began ambling down the driveway--away from me, back to my true home, back to Tamlin. It took all my will to keep from running after it. He had said he loved me, and I'd felt the truth of it with our lovemaking, and he'd sent me away to keep me safe; he'd freed me from the Treaty to keep me safe. Because whatever storm was about to break in Prythian was brutal enough that even a High Lord couldn't stand against it. I had to stay; it was wise to stay here. But I couldn't fight the sensation, like a darkening shadow within me, that I'd made a very, very big mistake in leaving, no matter Tamlin's orders. Stay with the High Lord, the Suriel had said. Its only command. I shoved the thought from my mind as my father wept at the sight of me and did indeed order a ball in my honor. And though I knew that the promise I had once made to my mother was fulfilled--though I knew that I truly was free of it, and that my family was forever cared for ... that growing, lengthening shadow blanketed my heart. <|title|>Chapter 29 <|startofchapter|>Inventing stories about my time with Aunt Ripleigh required minimal effort: I read to her daily, she instructed me on deportment from her bedside, and I nursed her until she died in her sleep two weeks ago, leaving her fortune to me. And what a tremendous fortune it was: the trunks that accompanied me hadn't contained just clothing--several of them had been filled with gold and jewels. Not cut jewels, either, but enormous, raw jewels that would pay for a thousand estates. My father was currently taking inventory of those jewels; he'd holed himself up in the office that overlooked the garden in which I was sitting beside Elain in the grass. Through the window, I spied my father hunched over his desk, a little scale before him as he weighed an uncut ruby the size of a duck's egg. He was clear-eyed again, and moved with a sense of purpose, of vibrancy, that I hadn't seen since before the downfall. Even his limp was improved--made miraculously better by some tonic and a salve a strange, passing healer had given him for free. I would have been forever grateful to Tamlin for that kindness alone. Gone were his hunched shoulders and downcast, misty eyes. My father smiled freely, laughed readily, and doted on Elain, who in turn doted on him. Nesta, though, had been quiet and watchful, only giving Elain answers not longer than a word or two. "These bulbs," Elain said, pointing with a gloved hand to a cluster of purple-and-white flowers, "came all the way from the tulip fields of the continent. Father promised that next spring he'll take me to see them. He claims that for mile after mile, there's nothing but these flowers." She patted the rich, dark soil. The little garden beneath the window was hers: every bloom and shrub had been picked and planted by her hand; she would allow no one else to care for it. Even the weeding and watering she did on her own. Though the servants did help her carry over the heavy watering cans, she admitted. She would have marveled--likely wept--at the gardens I'd become so accustomed to, at the flowers in perpetual bloom at the Spring Court. "You should come with me," Elain went on. "Nesta won't go, because she says she doesn't want to risk the sea crossing, but you and I... Oh, we'd have fun, wouldn't we?" I glanced sidelong at her. My sister was beaming, content--prettier than I'd ever seen her, even in her simple muslin gardening dress. Her cheeks were flushed beneath her large, floppy hat. "I think--I think I'd like to see the continent," I said. And it was true, I realized. There was so much of the world that I hadn't seen, hadn't ever thought about visiting. Hadn't ever been able to dream of visiting. "I'm surprised you're so eager to go next spring," I said. "Isn't that right in the middle of the season?" The socialite season, which had ended a few weeks ago, apparently, full of parties and balls and luncheons and gossip, gossip, gossip. Elain had told me all about it at dinner the night before, hardly noticing that it was an effort for me to get down my food. So much of it was the same--the meat, the bread, the vegetables, and yet ... it was ash in my mouth compared to what I'd consumed in Prythian. "And I'm surprised you don't have a line of suitors out the door, begging for your hand." Elain flushed but plunged her little shovel into the ground to dig out a weed. "Yes, well --there will always be other seasons. Nesta won't tell you, but this season was somewhat ... strange." "Tn what way?" She shrugged her slim shoulders. "People acted as if we'd all just been ill for eight years, or had gone away to some distant country--not that we'd been a few villages over in that cottage. You'd think we dreamed it all up, what happened to us over those years. No one said a word about it." "Did you think they would?" If we were as rich as this house suggested, there were surely plenty of families willing to overlook the stain of our poverty. "No--but it made me ... made me wish for those years again, even with the hunger and cold. This house feels so big sometimes, and father is always busy, and Nesta ..." She looked over her shoulder to where my eldest sister stood by a gnarled mulberry tree, looking out over the flat expanse of our lands. She'd barely spoken to me the night before, and not at all during breakfast. I'd been surprised when she joined us outside, even if she'd stayed by the tree this whole time. "Nesta didn't finish the season. She wouldn't tell me why. She began refusing every invitation. She hardly talks to anyone, and I feel wretched when my friends pay a visit, because she makes them so uncomfortable when she stares at them in that way of hers ..." Elain sighed. "Maybe you could talk to her." I contemplated telling Elain that Nesta and I hadn't had a civil conversation in years, but then Elain added, "She went to see you, you know." I blinked, my blood going a bit cold. "What?" "Well, she was gone for only about a week, and she said that her carriage broke down not halfway there, and it was easier to come back. But you wouldn't know, since you never got any of our letters." I looked over at Nesta, standing so still under the branches, the summer breeze rustling the skirts of her dress. Had she gone to see me, only to be turned back by whatever glamour magic Tamlin had cast on her? I turned back to the garden and caught Elain staring at me. "What?" Elain shook her head and went back to weeding. "You just look so ... different. You sound so different, too." Indeed, I hadn't quite believed my eyes when I'd passed a hall mirror last night. My face was still the same, but there was a ... glow about me, a kind of shimmering light that was nearly undetectable. I knew without a doubt that it was because of my time in Prythian, that all that magic had somehow rubbed off on me. I dreaded the day it would forever fade. "Did something happen at Aunt Ripleigh's house?" Elain asked. "Did you ... meet someone?" I shrugged and yanked at a weed nearby. "Just good food and rest." Days passed. The shadow within me didn't lighten, and even the thought of painting was abhorrent. Instead I spent most of my time with Elain in her little garden. I was content to listen to her talk about every bud and bloom, about her plans to start another garden by the greenhouse, perhaps a vegetable garden, if she could learn enough about it over the next few months. She had come alive here, and her joy was infectious. There wasn't a servant or gardener who didn't smile at her, and even the brusque head cook found excuses to bring her plates of cookies and tarts at various points in the day. I marveled at it, actually--that those years of poverty hadn't stripped away that light from Elain. Perhaps buried it a bit, but she was generous, loving, and kind--a woman I found myself proud to know, to call sister. My father finished counting my jewels and gold; I was an extraordinarily wealthy woman. I invested a small percentage of it in his business, and when I looked at the remaining behemoth sum, I had him draw me up several bags of money and set out. The manor was only three miles from our rundown cottage, and the road was familiar. I didn't mind when my hem became coated in mud from the sodden path. I savored hearing the wind in the trees and the sighing of the high grasses. If I drifted far enough into my memories, I could imagine myself walking alongside Tamlin through his woods. I had no reason to believe that I would see him anytime soon, but I went to bed each night praying that I'd awaken to find myself in his manor, or that I'd receive a message summoning me to his side. Even worse than my disappointment that no such thing had happened was the creeping, nagging fear that he was in danger--that Amarantha, whoever she was, would somehow hurt him. "I love you." I could almost hear the words--almost hear him saying them, could almost see the sunlight glinting in his golden hair and the dazzling green of his eyes. I could almost feel his body pressed against mine, his fingers playing along my skin. I reached a bend in the road that I could have navigated in the dark, and there it was. So small--the cottage had been so small. Elain's old flower garden was a wild tangle of weeds and blooms, and the ward-markings were still etched on the stone threshold. The front door--shattered and broken the last time I'd seen it--had been replaced, but one of the circular windowpanes had become cracked. The interior was dark, the land undisturbed. I traced the invisible path I'd taken across the tall grass every morning from our front door, over the road, and then across the rolling field, all the way to that line of trees. The forest--my forest. It had seemed so terrifying once--so lethal and hungry and brutal. And now it just seemed ... plain. Ordinary. I gazed again at that sad, dark house--the place that had been a prison. Elain had said she missed it, and I wondered what she saw when she looked at the cottage. If she beheld not a prison but a shelter--a shelter from a world that had possessed so little good, but she tried to find it anyway, even if it had seemed foolish and useless to me. She had looked at it that cottage with hope; I had looked at it with nothing but hatred. And I knew which one of us had been stronger. <|title|>Chapter 30 <|startofchapter|>I had one task left to do before I returned to my father's manor. The villagers who had once sneered at or ignored me instead gaped now, and a few stepped into my path to ask about my aunt, my fortune, on and on. I firmly but politely refused to fall into conversation with them, to give them anything to gossip over. But it still took me so long to reach the poor part of our village that I was fully drained by the time I knocked on the first dilapidated door. The impoverished of our village didn't ask questions when I handed them the little bags of silver and gold. They tried to refuse, some of them not even recognizing me, but I left the money anyway. It was the least I could do. As I walked back to my father's manor, I passed Tomas Mandray and his cronies lurking by the village fountain, chatting about some house that had burned down with its family trapped inside a week before and whether there was anything to loot from it. He gave me a too-long look, his eyes roving freely over my body, with a half smile I'd seen him give to the village girls a hundred times before. Why had Nesta changed her mind? I just stared him down and continued along. I was almost out of town when a woman's laugh flitted over the stones, and I turned a corner to come face-to-face with Isaac Hale--and a pretty, plump young woman who could only be his new wife. They were arm in arm, both smiling--both lit up from within. His smile faltered as he beheld me. Human--he seemed so human, with his gangly limbs, his simple handsomeness, but that smile he'd had moments before had transformed him into something more. His wife looked between us, perhaps a bit nervously. As if whatever she felt for him-- the love I'd already seen shining--was so new, so unexpected, that she was still worried it would vanish. Carefully, Isaac inclined his head to me in greeting. He'd been a boy when I left, and yet this person who now approached me ... whatever had blossomed with his wife, whatever was between them, it had made him into a man. Nothing--there was nothing in my chest, my soul, for him beyond a vague sense of gratitude. A few more steps had us passing each other. I smiled broadly at him, at them both, and bowed my head, wishing them well with my entire heart. The ball my father was throwing in my honor was in two days, and the house was already a flurry of activity. Such money being thrown away on things we'd never dreamed of having again, even for a moment. I would have begged him not to host it, but Elain had taken charge of planning and finding me a last-minute dress, and ... it would only be for an evening. An evening of enduring the people who had shunned us and let us starve for years. The sun was near to setting as I stopped my work for the day: digging out a new square of earth for Elain's next garden. The gardeners had been slightly horrified that another one of us had taken up the activity--as if we'd soon be doing all their work ourselves and would get rid of them. I reassured them I had no green thumb and just wanted something to do with my day. But I hadn't yet figured out what I would be doing with my week, or my month, or anything after that. If there was indeed a surge in the blight happening over the wall, if that Amarantha woman was sending out creatures to take advantage of it ... It was hard not to dwell on that shadow in my heart, the shadow that trailed my every step. I hadn't felt like painting since I'd arrived--and that place inside me where all those colors and shapes and lights had come from had become still and quiet and dull. Soon, I told myself. Soon I would purchase some paints and start again. I slid the shovel into the ground and set my foot atop it, resting for a moment. Perhaps the gardeners had just been horrified by the tunic and pants I'd scrounged up. One of them had even gone running to fetch me one of those big, floppy hats that Elain wore. I wore it for their sake; my skin had already become tan and freckled from months roaming the Spring Court lands. I glanced at my hands, clutching the top of the shovel. Callused and flecked with scars, arcs of dirt under my nails. They'd surely be horrified when they beheld me splattered with paint. "Even if you washed them, there'd be no hiding it," Nesta said behind me, coming over from that tree she liked to sit by. "To fit in, you'd have to wear gloves and never take them off." She wore a simple, pale lavender muslin gown, her hair half-up and billowing behind her in a sheet of gold-brown. Beautiful, imperious, still as one of the High Fae. "Maybe I don't want to fit in with your social circles," I said, turning back to the shovel. "Then why are you bothering to stay here?" A sharp, cold question. I plunged the shovel deeper, my arms and back straining as I heaved up a pile of dark soil and grass. "It's my home, isn't it?" "No, it's not," she said flatly. I slammed the shovel back into the earth. "I think your home is somewhere very far away." I paused. I left the shovel in the ground and slowly turned to face her. "Aunt Ripleigh's house--" "There is no Aunt Ripleigh." Nesta reached into her pocket and tossed something onto the churned-up earth. It was a chunk of wood, as if it had been ripped from something. Painted on its smooth surface was a pretty tangle of vines and--foxglove. Foxglove painted in the wrong shade of blue. My breath hitched. All this time, all these months ... "Your beast's little trick didn't work on me," she said with quiet steel. "Apparently, an iron will is all it takes to keep a glamour from digging in. So I had to watch as Father and Elain went from sobbing hysterics into nothing. I had to listen to them talk about how lucky it was for you to be taken to some made-up aunt's house, how some winter wind had shattered our door. And I thought I'd gone mad--but every time I did, I would look at that painted part of the table, then at the claw marks farther down, and know it wasn't in my head." I'd never heard of a glamour not working. But Nesta's mind was so entirely her own; she had put up such strong walls--of steel and iron and ash wood--that even a High Lord's magic couldn't pierce them. "Elain said--said you went to visit me, though. That you tried." Nesta snorted, her face grave and full of that long-simmering anger that she could never master. "He stole you away into the night, claiming some nonsense about the Treaty. And then everything went on as if it had never happened. It wasn't right. None of it was right." My hands slackened at my sides. "You went after me," I said. "You went after me--to Prythian." "I got to the wall. I couldn't find a way through." I raised a shaking hand to my throat. "You trekked two days there and two days back-- through the winter woods?" She shrugged, looking at the sliver she'd pried from the table. "I hired that mercenary from town to bring me a week after you were taken. With the money from your pelt. She was the only one who seemed like she would believe me." "You did that--for me?" Nesta's eyes--my eyes, our mother's eyes--met mine. "It wasn't right," she said again. Tamlin had been wrong when we'd discussed whether my father would have ever come after me--he didn't possess the courage, the anger. If anything, he would have hired someone to do it for him. But Nesta had gone with that mercenary. My hateful, cold sister had been willing to brave Prythian to rescue me. "What happened to Tomas Mandray?" I asked, the words strangled. "I realized he wouldn't have gone with me to save you from Prythian." And for her, with that raging, unrelenting heart, it would have been a line in the sand. I looked at my sister, really looked at her, at this woman who couldn't stomach the sycophants who now surrounded her, who had never spent a day in the forest but had gone into wolf territory ... Who had shrouded the loss of our mother, then our downfall, in icy rage and bitterness, because the anger had been a lifeline, the cruelty a release. But she had cared--beneath it, she had cared, and perhaps loved more fiercely than I could comprehend, more deeply and loyally. "Tomas never deserved you anyway," I said softly. My sister didn't smile, but a light shone in her blue-gray eyes. "Tell me everything that happened," she said--an order, not a request. So I did. And when I finished my story, Nesta merely stared at me for a long while before asking me to teach her how to paint. Teaching Nesta to paint was about as pleasant as I had expected it to be, but at least it provided an excuse for us to avoid the busier parts of the house, which became more and more chaotic as my ball drew near. Supplies were easy enough to come by, but explaining how I painted, convincing Nesta to express what was in her mind, her heart ... At the very least, she repeated my brushstrokes with a precise and solid hand. When we emerged from the quiet room we'd commandeered, both of us splattered in paint and smeared with charcoal, the chateau was finishing up its preparations. Colored glass lanterns lined the long drive, and inside, wreaths and garlands of every flower and color decorated every rail, every surface, every archway. Beautiful. Elain had selected each flower herself and instructed the staff where to put them. Nesta and I slipped up the stairs, but as we reached the landing, my father and Elain appeared below, arm in arm. Nesta's face tightened. My father murmured his praises to Elain, who beamed at him and rested her head on his shoulder. And I was happy for them--for the comfort and ease of their lifestyle, for the contentment on both my father's and my sister's faces. Yes, they had their small sorrows, but both of them seemed so ... relaxed. Nesta walked down the hall, and I followed her. "There are days," Nesta said as she paused in front of the door to her room, across from mine, "when I want to ask him if he remembers the years he almost let us starve to death." "You spent every copper I could get, too," I reminded her. "TI knew you could always get more. And if you couldn't, then I wanted to see if he would ever try to do it himself, instead of carving those bits of wood. If he would actually go out and fight for us. I couldn't take care of us, not the way you did. I hated you for that. But I hated him more. I still do." "Does he know?" "He's always known I hate him, even before we became poor. He let Mother die--he had a fleet of ships at his disposal to sail across the world for a cure, or he could have hired men to go into Prythian and beg them for help. But he let her waste away." "He loved her--he grieved for her." I didn't know what the truth was--perhaps both. "He let her die. You would have gone to the ends of the earth to save your High Lord." My chest hollowed out again, but I merely said, "Yes, I would have," and slipped inside my room to get ready. <|title|>Chapter 31 <|startofchapter|>The ball was a blur of waltzing and preening, of bejeweled aristos, of wine and toasts in my honor. I lingered at Nesta's side, because she seemed to do a good job of scaring off the too-curious suitors who wanted to know more about my fortune. But I tried to smile, if only for Elain, who flitted about the room, personally greeting each guest and dancing with all their important sons. But I kept thinking about what Nesta had said--about saving Tamlin. I'd known something was wrong. I'd known he was in trouble--not just with the blight on Prythian, but also that the forces gathering to destroy him were deadly, and yet ... and yet I'd stopped looking for answers, stopped fighting it, glad--so selfishly glad--to be able to set down that savage, wild part of me that had only survived hour to hour. I'd let him send me home. I hadn't tried harder to piece together the information I'd gathered about the blight or Amarantha; I hadn't tried to save him. I hadn't even told him I loved him. And Lucien ... Lucien had known it, too--and shown it in his bitter words on my last day, his disappointment in me. Two in the morning, and yet the party was showing no signs of slowing. My father held court with several other merchants and aristo men to whom I had been introduced but whose names I'd instantly forgotten. Elain was laughing among a circle of beautiful friends, flushed and brilliant. Nesta had silently left at midnight, and I didn't bother to say good-bye as I finally slipped upstairs. The following afternoon, bleary-eyed and quiet, we all gathered at the lunch table. I thanked my sister and father for the party, and dodged my father's inquiries regarding whether any of his friends' sons had caught my eye. The summer heat had arrived, and I propped my chin on a fist as I fanned myself. I'd slept fitfully in the heat last night. It was never too hot or too cold at Tamlin's estate. "I'm thinking of buying the Beddor land," my father was saying to Elain, who was the only one of us listening to him. "I heard a rumor it'll go up for sale soon, since none of the family survived, and it would be a good investment property. Perhaps one of you girls might build a house on it when you're ready." Elain nodded interestedly, but I blinked. "What happened to the Beddors?" "Oh, it was awful," Elain said. "Their house burned down, and everyone died. Well, they couldn't find Clare's body, but ..." She looked down at her plate. "It happened in the dead of night--the family, their servants, everyone. The day before you came home to us, actually." "Clare Beddor," I said slowly. "Our friend, remember?" Elain said. I nodded, feeling Nesta's eyes on me. No--no, it couldn't be possible. It had to be a coincidence--had to be a coincidence, because the alternative ... I had given that name to Rhysand. And he had not forgotten it. My stomach turned over, and I fought against the nausea that roiled within me. "Feyre?" my father asked. I put a shaking hand over my eyes, breathing in. What had happened? Not just at the Beddors', but at home, in Prythian? "Feyre," my father said again, and Nesta hissed at him, "Quiet." I pushed back against the guilt, the disgust and terror. I had to get answers--had to know if it had been a coincidence, or if I might yet be able to save Clare. And if something had happened here, in the mortal realm, then the Spring Court ... then those creatures Tamlin had been so frightened of ... the blight that had infected magic, their lands ... Faeries. They had come over the wall and left no trace behind. I lowered my hand and looked at Nesta. "You must listen very carefully," I said to her, swallowing hard. "Everything I have told you must remain a secret. You do not come looking for me. You do not speak my name again to anyone." "What are you talking about, Feyre?" My father gaped at me from the end of the table. Elain glanced between us, shifting in her seat. But Nesta held my gaze. Unflinching. "I think something very bad might be happening in Prythian," I said softly. 'd never learned what warning signs Tamlin had instilled in their glamours to prod my family to run, but I wasn't going to risk relying solely on them. Not when Clare had been taken, her family murdered ... because of me. Bile burned my throat. "Prythian!" my father and Elain blurted. But Nesta held up a hand to silence them. I went on, "If you won't leave, then hire guards--hire scouts to watch the wall, the forest. The village, too." I rose from my seat. "The first sign of danger, the first rumor you hear of the wall being breached or even something being strange, you get on a ship and go. You sail far away, as far south as you can get, to someplace the faeries would never desire." My father and Elain began blinking, as if clearing some fog from their minds--as if emerging from a deep sleep. But Nesta followed me into the hall, up the stairs. "The Beddors," she said. "That was meant to be us. But you gave them a fake name-- those wicked faeries who threatened your High Lord." I nodded. I could see the plans calculating in her eyes. "Is there going to be an invasion?" "I don't know. I don't know what's happening. I was told that there was a kind of sickness that had made their powers weaken or go wild, a blight on the land that had damaged the safety of their borders and could kill people if it struck badly enough. They --they said it was surging again ... on the move. The last I heard, it wasn't near enough to harm our lands. But if the Spring Court is about to fall, then the blight has to be getting close, and Tamlin ... Tamlin was one of the last bastions keeping the other courts in check --the deadly courts. And I think he's in danger." I entered my room and began peeling off my gown. My sister helped me, then opened the wardrobe to pull out a heavy tunic and pants and boots. I slipped into them and was braiding back my hair when she said, "We don't need you here, Feyre. Do not look back." I tugged on my boots and went for the hunting knives I'd discreetly acquired while here. "Father once told you to never come back," Nesta said, "and I'm telling you now. We can take care of ourselves." Once I might have thought it was an insult, but now I understood--understood what a gift she was offering me. I sheathed the knives at my side and slung a quiver of arrows across my back--none of them ash--before scooping up my bow. "They can lie," I said, giving her information I hoped she would never need. "Faeries can lie, and iron doesn't bother them one bit. But ash wood--that seems to work. Take my money and buy a damned grove of it for Elain to tend." Nesta shook her head, clutching her wrist, the bracelet of iron still there. "What do you think you can even do to help? He's a High Lord--you're just a human." That wasn't an insult, either. A question from a coolly calculating mind. "I don't care," I admitted, at the door now, which I flung open. "But I've got to try." Nesta remained in my room. She would not say good-bye--she hated farewells as much as I did. But I turned to my sister and said, "There is a better world, Nesta. There is a better world out there, waiting for you to find it. And if I ever get the chance, if things are ever better, safer ... I will find you again." It was all I could offer her. But Nesta squared her shoulders. "Don't bother. I don't think I'd be particularly fond of faeries." I raised a brow. She went on with a slight shrug. "Try to send word once it's safe. And if it ever is ... Father and Elain can have this place. I think I'd like to see what else is out there, what a woman might do with a fortune and a good name." No limits, I thought. There were no limits to what Nesta might do, what she might make of herself once she found a place to call her own. I prayed I would be lucky enough to someday see it. Elain, to my surprise, had a horse, a satchel of food, and supplies ready when I hurried down the stairs. My father was nowhere in sight. But Elain threw her arms around me, and, holding tightly, said, "I remember--I remember all of it now." I wrapped my arms around her. "Be on your guard. All of you." She nodded, tears in her eyes. "I would have liked to see the continent with you, Feyre." I smiled at my sister, memorizing her lovely face, and wiped her tears away. "Maybe someday," I said. Another promise that I'd be lucky to keep. Elain was still crying as I spurred my horse and galloped down the drive. I didn't have it in me to say good-bye to my father once more. I rode all day and stopped only when it was too dark for me to see. Due north--that's where I would start and go until I hit the wall. I had to get back--had to see what had happened, had to tell Tamlin everything that was in my heart before it was too late. I rode all of the second day, slept fitfully, and was off before first light. On and on, through the summer forest, lush and dense and humming. Until an absolute silence fell. I slowed my horse to a careful walk and scanned the brush and trees ahead for any sign, any ripple. There was nothing. Nothing, and then-- My horse bucked and shook her head, and it was all I could do to stay in the saddle as she refused to go forward. But still, there was nothing--no marker. Yet when I dismounted, hardly breathing as I put a hand out, I found that I could not pass. There, cleaving through the forest, was an invisible wall. But the faeries came and went through it--through holes, rumor claimed. So I led my horse down the line, tapping the wall every so often to make sure I hadn't veered away. It took me two days--and the night between them was more terrifying than any I'd experienced at the Spring Court. Two days, before I spied the mossy stones placed across from each other, a faint whorl carved into them both. A gate. This time, when I mounted my horse and steered her between them, she obeyed. Magic stung my nostrils, zapping until my horse bucked again, but we were through. I knew these trees. I rode in silence, an arrow nocked and ready, the threats lurking in the forest far greater than those in the woods I'd just left. Tamlin might be furious--he might command me to tum around and go home. But I would tell him that I was going to help, tell him that I loved him and would fight for him however I could, even if I had to tie him down to make him listen. I became so intent on contemplating how I might convince him not to start roaring that I didn't immediately notice the quiet--how the birds didn't sing, even as I drew closer to the manor itself, how the hedges of the estate looked in need of a trim. By the time I reached the gates, my mouth had gone dry. The gates were open, but the iron had been bent out of shape, as if mighty hands had wrenched them apart. Every step of the horse's hooves was too loud on the gravel path, and my stomach dropped further when I beheld the wide-open front doors. One of them hung at an angle, ripped off its top hinge. I dismounted, arrow still at the ready. But there was no need. Empty--it was utterly empty here. Like a tomb. "Tam?" I called. I bounded up the front steps and into the house. I rushed inside, swearing as I slid on a piece of broken porcelain--the remnants of a vase. Slowly, I turned in the front hall. It looked as if an army had marched through. Tapestries hung in shreds, the marble banister was fractured, and the chandeliers lay broken on the ground, reduced to mounds of shattered crystal. "Tamlin?" I shouted. Nothing. The windows had all been blown out. "Lucien?" No one answered. "Tam?" My voice echoed through the house, mocking me. Alone in the wreckage of the manor, I sank to my knees. He was gone. <|title|>Chapter 32 <|startofchapter|>I gave myself a minute--just one minute--to kneel in the remnants of the entry hall. Then I eased to my feet, careful not to disturb any of the shattered glass or wood or-- blood. There were splatters of it everywhere, along with small puddles and smears down the gouged walls. Another forest, I told myself. Another set of tracks. Slowly, I moved across the floor, tracing the information left. It had been a vicious fight --and from the blood patterns, most of the damage to the house had been done during the fight, not afterward. The crushed glass and footprints came and went from the front and back of the house, as if the whole place had been surrounded. The intruders had needed to force their way in though the front door; they'd just completely shattered the doors to the garden. No bodies, I kept repeating to myself. There were no bodies, and not much gore. They had to be alive. Tamlin had to be alive. Because if he were dead ... I rubbed my face, taking a shuddering breath. I wouldn't let myself get that far. My hands shook as I paused before the dining room doors, both barely hanging on their hinges. I couldn't tell if the damage was from his lashing out after Rhysand's arrival the day before my departure or if someone else had caused it. The giant table was in pieces, the windows smashed, the curtains in shreds. But no blood--there was no blood here. And from the prints in the shards of glass ... I studied the trail across the floor. It had been disturbed, but I could make out two sets --large and side by side--leading from where the table had been. As if Tamlin and Lucien had been sitting in here as the attack happened, and walked out without a fight. If I was right ... then they were alive. I traced the steps to the doorway, squatting for a moment to work through the churned-up shards, dirt, and blood. They'd been met here-- by multiple sets of prints. And headed toward the garden-- Debris crunched from down the hall. I drew my hunting knife and ducked farther into the dining room, scanning for a place to hide. But everything was in pieces. With no other option, I lunged behind the open door. I pressed a hand over my mouth to keep from breathing too loudly and peered through the crack between the door and the wall. Something limped into the room and sniffed. I could only see its back--cloaked in a plain cape, medium height ... All it had to do to find me was shut the door. Perhaps if it came far enough into the dining room, I could slip out--but that would require leaving my hiding spot. Perhaps it would just look around and then leave. The figure sniffed again, and my stomach clenched. It could smell me. I dared a better glance at it, hoping to find a weakness, a spot for my knife, if things came down to it. The figure turned slightly toward me. I cried out, and the figure screeched as I shoved away the door. "Alis." She gaped at me, a hand on her heart, her usual brown dress torn and dirty, her apron gone entirely. Not bloodied, though--nothing save for the slight limp that favored her right ankle as she rushed for me, her tree-bark skin bleaching birch white. "You can't be here." She took in my knife, the bow and quiver. "You were told to stay away." "Is he alive?" "Yes, but--" My knees buckled at the onslaught of relief. "And Lucien?" "Alive as well. But--." "Tell me what happened--tell me everything." I kept an eye on the window, listening to the manor and grounds around us. Not a sound. Alis grasped my arm and pulled me from the room. She didn't speak as we hurried through the empty, too-quiet halls--all of them wrecked and bloodied, but ... no bodies. Either they'd been hauled away, or--I didn't let myself consider it as we entered the kitchen. A fire had scorched the giant room, and it was little more than cinders and blackened stone. After sniffing about and listening for any signs of danger, Alis released me. "What are you doing here?" "I had to come back. I thought something had gone wrong--I couldn't stay away. I had to help." "He told you not to come back," Alis snapped. "Where is he?" Alis covered her face with her long, bony hands, her fingertips grappling into the upper edge of her mask as if trying to tear it from her face. But the mask remained, and Alis sighed as she lowered her tree-bark hands. "She took him," she said, and my blood went cold. "She took him to her court Under the Mountain." "Who?" But I already knew the answer. "Amarantha," Alis whispered, and glanced again around the kitchen as if fearful that speaking her name would summon her. "Why? And who is she--what is she? Please, please just tell me--just give me the truth." Alis shuddered. "You want the truth, girl? Then here it is: she took him for the curse-- because the seven times seven years were over, and he hadn't shattered her curse. She's summoned all the High Lords to her court this ttme--to make them watch her break him." "What is she--wh-what curse?" A curse--the curse she had put on this place. A curse that I had failed to even see. "Amarantha is High Queen of this land. The High Queen of Prythian," Alis breathed, her eyes wide with some memory of horror. "But the seven High Lords rule Prythian--equally. There's no High Queen." "That's how it used to be--how it's always been. Until a hundred years ago, when she appeared in these lands as an emissary from Hybern." Alis grabbed a large satchel that she must have left by the door. It was already half full of what looked like clothes and supplies. As she began sifting through the ruined kitchen, gathering up knives and any food that had survived, I wondered at the information the Suriel had given me--of a wicked faerie king who had spent centuries resenting the Treaty he'd been forced to sign, and who had sent out his deadliest commanders to infiltrate the other faerie kingdoms and courts to see if they felt as he did--to see if they might consider reclaiming the human lands for themselves. I leaned against one of the soot-stained walls. "She went from court to court," Alis went on, turning an apple over in her hands as she inspected it, deemed it good enough, and stuffed it into the bag, "charming the High Lords with talk of more trade between Hybern and Prythian, more communication, more sharing of assets. The Never-Fading Flower, they called her. And for fifty years, she lived here as a courtier bound to no court, making amends, she claimed, for her own actions and the actions of Hybern during the War." "She fought in the War against mortals?" Alis paused her gathering. "Her story is legend among our kind--legend, and nightmare. She was the King of Hybern's most lethal general--she fought on the front lines, slaughtering humans and any High Fae and faeries who dared defend them. But she had a younger sister, Clythia, who fought at her side, as vicious and wretched as she ... until Clythia fell in love with a mortal warrior. Jurian." Alis loosed a shaking sigh. "Jurian commanded mighty human armies, but Clythia still secretly sought him out, still loved him with an unrelenting madness. She was too blind to realize that Jurian was using her for information about Amarantha's forces. Amarantha suspected, but could not persuade Clythia to leave him--and could not bring herself to kill him, not when it would cause her sister such pain." Alis clicked her tongue and began opening the cabinets, scanning their ravaged insides. "Amarantha delighted in torture and killing, and yet she loved her sister enough to stay her hand." "What happened?" I breathed. "Oh, Jurian betrayed Clythia. After months of stomaching being her lover, he got the information he needed, then tortured and butchered her, crucifying her with ash wood so she couldn't move while he did it. He left the pieces of her for Amarantha to find. They say Amarantha's wrath could have brought down the skies themselves, had her king not ordered her to stand down. But she and Jurian had their final confrontation later--and since then, Amarantha has hated humans with a rage you cannot imagine." Alis found what looked to be a jar of preserves and added it to the satchel. "After the two sides made the Treaty," Alis said, now going through the drawers, "she butchered her own slaves, rather than free them." I blanched. "But centuries later, the High Lords believed her when she told them that the death of her sister had changed her-- especially when she opened trade lines between our two territories. The High Lords never knew that those same ships that brought over Hybernian goods also brought over her own personal forces. The King of Hybern didn't know, either. But we all soon learned that, in those fifty years she was here, she had decided she wanted Prythian for her own, to begin amassing power and use our lands as a launching point to one day destroy your world once and for all, with or without her king's blessing. So forty-nine years ago, she struck. "She knew--knew that even with her personal army, she could never conquer the seven High Lords by numbers or power alone. But she was also cunning and cruel, and she waited until they absolutely trusted her, until they gathered at a ball in her honor, and that night she slipped a potion stolen from the King of Hybern's unholy spell book into their wine. Once they drank, the High Lords were prone, their magic laid bare--and she stole their powers from where they originated inside their bodies--plucked them out as if she were taking an apple from its branch, leaving them with only the basest elements of their magic. Your Tamlin--what you saw of him here was a shade of what he used to be, the power that he used to command. And with the High Lords' power so greatly decreased, Amarantha wrested control of Prythian from them in a matter of days. For forty-nine years, we have been her slaves. For forty-nine years, she has been biding her time, waiting for the right moment to break the Treaty and take your lands--and all human territories beyond it." I wished there were a stool, a bench, a chair for me to slump into. Alis slammed shut the final drawer and limped for the pantry. "Now they call her the Deceiver--she who trapped the seven High Lords and built her palace beneath the sacred Mountain in the heart of our land." Alis paused before the pantry door and covered her face again, taking a few steadying breaths. The sacred mountain--that bald, monstrous peak I'd spotted in the mural in the library all those months ago. "But ... the sickness in the lands ... Tamlin said that the blight took their power--" "She is the sickness in these lands," Alis snapped, lowering her hands and entering the pantry. "There is no blight but her. The borders were collapsing because she laid them to rubble. She found it amusing to send her creatures to attack our lands, to test whatever strength Tamlin had left." If the blight was Amarantha, then the threat to the human realm ... She was the threat to the human realm. Alis emerged from the pantry, her arms full of various root vegetables. "You could have been the one to stop her." Her eyes were hard upon me, and she bared her teeth. They were alarmingly sharp. She shoved the turnips and beets into the bag. "You could have been the one to free him and his power, had you not been so blind to your own heart. Humans," she Spat. "I -- ..." I lifted my hands, exposing my palms to her. "I didn't know." "You couldn't know," Alis said bitterly, her laugh harsh as she entered the pantry again. "It was part of Tamlin's curse." My head swam, and I pressed myself further against the wall. "What was?" I fought the rising hitch in my voice. "What was his curse? What did she do to him?" Alis yanked remaining spice jars off the pantry shelf. "Tamlin and Amarantha knew each other before--his family had long been tied to Hybern. During the War, the Spring Court allied with Hybern to keep the humans enslaved. So his father--his father, who was a fickle and vicious Lord--was very close with the King of Hybern, to Amarantha. Tamlin as a child often accompanied him on trips to Hybern. And he met Amarantha in the process." Tamlin had once said to me that he would fight to protect someone's freedom--that he would never allow slavery. Had it been solely because of shame for his own legacy, or because he ... he'd come to somehow know what it was to be enslaved? "Amarantha eventually grew to desire Tamlin--to lust for him with her entire wicked heart. But he'd heard the stories from others about the War, and knew what Amarantha and his father and the Hybern king had done to faeries and humans alike. What she did to Jurian as punishment for her sister's death. He was wary of her when she came here, despite her attempts to lure him into her bed--and kept his distance, right up until she stole his powers. Lucien ... Lucien was sent to her as Tamlin's emissary, to try to treat for peace between them." Bile rose in my throat. "She refused, and ... Lucien told her to go back to the shit-hole she'd crawled out of. She took his eye as punishment. Carved it out with her own fingernail, then scarred his face. She sent him back so bloody that Tamlin ... The High Lord vomited when he saw his friend." I couldn't let myself imagine what state Lucien had been in, then, if it had made Tamlin sick. Alis tapped on her mask, the metal pinging beneath her nails. "After that, she hosted a masquerade Under the Mountain for herself. All the courts were present. A party, she said --to make amends for what she'd done to Lucien, and a masquerade so he didn't have to reveal the horrible scarring on his face. The entire Spring Court was to attend, even the servants, and to wear masks--to honor Tamlin's shape-shifting powers, she said. He was willing to try to end the conflict without slaughter, and he agreed to go--to bring all of us. I pressed my hands against the stone wall behind me, savoring its coolness, its steadiness. Pausing in the center of the kitchen, Alis set down her satchel, now full of food and supplies. "When all were assembled, she claimed that peace could be had--if Tamlin joined her as her lover and consort. But when she tried to touch him, he refused to let her near. Not after what she'd done to Lucien. He said--in front of everyone that night--that he would sooner take a human to his bed, sooner marry a human, than ever touch her. She might have let it go, had he not then said that her own sister had preferred a human's company to hers, that her own sister had chosen Jurian over her." I winced, already knowing what Alis would say as she braced her hands on her hips and went on. "You can guess how well that went over with Amarantha. But she told Tamlin that she was in a generous mood--told him she'd give him a chance to break the spell she'd put upon him to steal his power. "He spat in her face, and she laughed. She said he had seven times seven years before she claimed him, before he had to join her Under the Mountain. If he wanted to break her curse, he need only find a human girl willing to marry him. But not any girl--a human with ice in her heart, with hatred for our kind. A human girl willing to kill a faerie." The ground rocked beneath me, and I was grateful for the wall I leaned against. "Worse, the faerie she killed had to be one of his men, sent across the wall by him like lambs to slaughter. The girl could only be brought here to be courted if she killed one of his men in an unprovoked attack--killed him for hatred alone, just as Jurian had done to Clythia ... So he could understand her sister's pain." "The Treaty--" "That was all a lie. There was no provision for that in the Treaty. You can kill as many innocent faeries as you want and never suffer the consequences. You just killed Andras, sent out by Tamlin as that day's sacrifice." Andras was looking for a cure, Tamlin had said. Not for some magical blight--but a cure to save Prythian from Amarantha, a cure for this curse. The wolf--Andras had just ... stared at me before I killed him. Let me kill him. So it could begin this chain of events, so that Tamlin might stand a chance of breaking the spell. And if Tamlin had sent Andras across the wall, knowing he might very well die ... Oh, Tamlin. Alis stooped to gather up a butter knife, twisted and bent, and carefully straightened out the blade. "It was all a cruel joke, a clever punishment, to Amarantha. You humans loathe and fear faeries so much it would be impossible--impossible for the same girl who slaughtered a faerie in cold blood to then fall in love with one. But the spell on Tamlin could only be broken if she did just that before the forty-nine years were over--if that girl said to his face that she loved him, and meant it with her entire heart. Amarantha knows humans are preoccupied with beauty, and thus bound the masks to all our faces, to his face, so it would be more difficult to find a girl willing to look beyond the mask, beyond his faerie nature, and to the soul beneath. Then she bound us so we couldn't say a word about the curse. Not a single word. We could hardly tell you a thing about our world, about our fate. He couldn't tell you--none of us properly could. The lies about the blight --that was the best he could do, the best we could all do. That I can tell you now ... it means the game is over, to her." She pocketed the knife. "When she first cursed him, Tamlin sent one of his men across the wall every day. To the woods, to farms, all disguised as wolves to make it more likely for one of your kind to want to kill them. If they came back, it was with stories of human girls who ran and screamed and begged, who didn't even lift a hand. When they didn't come back-- Tamlin's bond with them as their Lord and master told him they'd been killed by others. Human hunters, older women, perhaps. For two years he sent them out, day after day, having to pick who crossed the wall. When all but a dozen of them were left, it broke him so badly he stopped. Called it all off. And since then, Tamlin has been here, defending his borders as chaos and disorder ruled in the other courts under Amarantha's thumb. The other High Lords fought back, too. Forty years ago, she executed three of them and most of their families for banding together against her." "Open rebellion? What courts?" I straightened, taking a step away from the wall. Perhaps I might find allies among them to help me save Tamlin. "The Day Court, Summer Court, and Winter Court. And no--it didn't even get far enough to be considered an open rebellion. She used the High Lords' powers to bind us to the land. So the rebel lords tried calling for aid from the other Fae territories using as messengers whatever humans were foolish enough to enter our lands--most of them young women who worshipped us like gods." The Children of the Blessed. They had indeed made it over the wall--but not to be brides. I was too battered by what I'd heard to grieve for them, rage for them. "But Amarantha caught them all before they left these shores, and ... you can imagine how it ended for those girls. Afterward, once Amarantha also butchered the rebellious High Lords, their successors were too terrified to tempt her wrath again." "And where are they now? Are they allowed to live on their lands, like Tamlin was?" "No. She keeps them and their entire courts Under the Mountain, where she can torment them as she pleases. Others--others, if they swear allegiance, if they grovel and serve her, she allows them a bit more freedom to come and go Under the Mountain as they will. Our court was only allowed to remain here until Tamlin's curse ran out, but ..." Alis shivered. "That's why you keep your nephews in hiding--to keep them away from this," I said, glancing at the full satchel at her feet. Alis nodded, and as she went to right the overturned worktable, I moved to help her, both of us grunting at the weight. "My sister and I served in the Summer Court--and she and her mate were among those put down for spite when Amarantha first invaded. I took the boys and ran before Amarantha had everyone dragged Under the Mountain. I came here because it was the only place to go, and asked Tamlin to hide my boys. He did--and when I begged him to let me help, in whatever small way, he gave me a position here, days before the masque that put this wretched thing on my face. So I've been here for nearly fifty years, watching as Amarantha's noose grew tighter around his neck." We set the table upright again, and both of us panted a bit as we slumped against it. "He tried," Alis said. "Even with her spies, he tried finding ways to break the curse, to do anything against it, against having to send his men out again to be slaughtered by humans. He thought that if the human girl loved true, then bringing her here to free him was another form of slavery. And he thought that if he did indeed fall in love with her, Amarantha would do everything she could to destroy her, as her sister had been destroyed. So he spent decades refusing to do it, to even risk it. But this winter, with months to go, he just ... snapped. He sent the last of his men out, one by one. And they were willing--they had begged him to go, all these years. Tamlin was desperate to save his people, desperate enough to risk the lives of his men, risk that human girl's life to save us. Three days in, Andras finally ran into a human girl in a clearing--and you killed him with hate in your heart." But I had failed them. And in so doing, I'd damned them all. I had damned each and every person on this estate, damned Prythian itself. I was glad I was leaning against the table's edge--or else I might have slid to the floor. "You could have broken it," Alis snarled, those sharp teeth mere inches from my face. "All you had to do was say that you loved him--say that you loved him and mean it with your whole useless human heart, and his power would have been freed. You stupid, stupid girl." No wonder Lucien had resented me and yet still tolerated my presence--no wonder he'd been so bitterly disappointed when I left, had argued with Tamlin to let me stay longer. "I'm sorry," I said, my eyes burning. Alis snorted. "Tell that to Tamlin. He had only three days after you left before the forty- nine years were over. Three days, and he let you go. She came here with her cronies at the exact moment the seven times seven years were over and seized him, along with most of the court, and brought them Under the Mountain to be her subjects. Creatures like me are too lowly for her--though she's not above murdering us for sport." I tried not to visualize it. "But what of the King of Hybern--if she's conquered Prythian for herself and stolen his spells, then does he see her as insubordinate or as an ally?" "If they are on bad terms, he has made no move to punish her. For forty-nine years now, she's held these lands in her grip. Worse, after the High Lords fell, all the wicked ones in our lands--the ones too awful even for the Night Court--flocked to her. They still do. She's offered them sanctuary. But we know--we know she's building her army, biding her time before launching an attack on your world, armed with the most lethal and vicious faeries in Prythian and Hybern." "Like the Attor," I said, horror and dread twisting in my gut, and Alis nodded. "In the human territory," I said, "rumor claims more and more faeries have been sneaking over the wall to attack humans. And if no faeries can cross the wall without her permission, then that has to mean she's been sanctioning those attacks." And if I was right about what had happened to Clare Beddor and her family, then Amarantha had given the order for that, too. Alis swiped some dirt I couldn't see from the table we leaned against. "I would not be surprised if she has sent her minions into the human realm to investigate your strengths and weaknesses in anticipation of the destruction she one day hopes to cause." This was worse--so much worse than I had thought when I warned Nesta and my family to stay on alert and leave at the slightest sign of trouble. I felt sick to think of what kind of company Tamlin was keeping--sick at the thought of him being so desperate, so stricken by guilt and grief over having to sacrifice his sentries and never being able to tell me ... And he'd let me go. Let all their sacrifices, let Andras's sacrifice, be in vain. He'd known that if I remained, I would be at risk of Amarantha's wrath, even if I freed him. "I can't even protect myself against them, against what's happening in Prythian ... Even if we stood against the blight, they would hunt you down--she would find a way to kill you." I remembered that pathetic effort to flatter me upon my arrival--and then he'd given up on it, on any attempt to win me when I'd seemed so desperate to get away, to never talk to him. But he'd fallen in love with me despite all that--known I'd loved him, and let me go with days to spare. He had put me before his entire court, before all of Prythian. "If Tamlin were freed--if he had his full powers," I said, staring at a blackened bit of wall, "would he be able to destroy Amarantha?" "I don't know. She tricked the High Lords through cunning, not force. Magic's a specific kind of thing--it likes rules, and she manipulated them too well. She keeps their powers locked up inside herself, as if she can't use them, or can access very little of them, at least. She has her own deadly powers, yes, so if it came down to a fight--" "But is he stronger?" I started wringing my hands. "He's a High Lord," Alis replied, as if that were answer enough. "But none of that matters now. He's to be her slave, and we're all to wear these masks until he agrees to become her lover--even then, he'll never regain his full powers. And she'll never let those Under the Mountain go." I pushed off the table and squared my shoulders. "How do I get Under the Mountain?" She clicked her tongue. "You can't go Under the Mountain. No human who goes in ever comes out." I squeezed my fists so hard that my nails bit into my flesh. "How. Do. I. Get. There." "It's suicide--she'll kill you, even if you get close enough to see her." Amarantha had tricked him--she had hurt him so badly. Hurt them all so badly. "You're a human," Alis went on, standing as well. "Your flesh is paper-thin." Amarantha must also have taken Lucien--she had carved out Lucien's eye and scarred him like that. Did his mother grieve for him? "You were too blind to see Tamlin's curse," Alis continued. "How do you expect to face Amarantha? You'll make things worse." Amarantha had taken everything I wanted, everything I finally dared desire. "Show me the way," I said, my voice trembling, but not with tears. "No." Alis slung her satchel over a shoulder. "Go home. I'll take you as far as the wall. There's naught to be done now. Tamlin will remain her slave forever, and Prythian will stay under her rule. That's what Fate dealt, that was what the Eddies of the Cauldron decided." "I don't believe in Fate. Nor do I believe in some ridiculous Cauldron." She shook her head again, her wild brown hair like glistening mud in the dim light. "Take me to her," I insisted. If Amarantha ripped out my throat, at least I would die doing something for him--at least I would die trying to fix the destruction I hadn't prevented, trying to save the people I'd doomed. At least Tamlin would know it was for him, and that I loved him. Alis studied me for a moment before her eyes softened. "As you wish." <|title|>Chapter 33 <|startofchapter|>I might have been going to my death, but I wouldn't arrive unarmed. I tightened the strap of the quiver across my chest and then grazed my fingers over the arrow feathers peeking over my shoulder. Of course, there were no ash arrows. But I would make do with what I'd found scattered throughout the manor. I could have taken more, but weapons would only weigh me down, and I didn't know how to use most of them anyway. So I wore a full quiver, two daggers at my waist, and a bow slung over a shoulder. Better than nothing, even if I was up against faeries who'd been born knowing how to kill. Alis led me through the silent woods and foothills, pausing every so often to listen, to alter our course. I didn't want to know what she heard or smelled out there, not when such stillness blanketed the lands. Stay with the High Lord, the Suriel had said. Stay with him, fall in love with him, and all would be righted. If I had stayed, if I had admitted what I'd felt ... None of this would have happened. The world steadily filled with night, and my legs ached from the steep slopes of the hills, but Alis pressed on--never once looking back to see that I followed. I was beginning to wonder whether I should have brought more than a day's worth of food when she stopped in the hollow between two hills. The air was cold--far colder than the air at the top of the hill, and I shivered as my eyes fell upon a slender cave mouth. There was no way this was the entrance--not when that mural had painted Under the Mountain to be in the center of Prythian. It was weeks of travel away. "All dark and miserable roads lead Under the Mountain," Alis said so quietly that her voice was nothing more than the rustling of leaves. She pointed to the cave. "It's an ancient shortcut--once considered sacred, but no more." This was the cave Lucien had ordered the Attor not to use that day. I tried to master my trembling. I loved Tamlin, and I would go to the ends of the earth to make it right, to save him, but if Amarantha was worse than the Attor ... if the Attor wasn't the wickedest of her cronies ... if even Tamlin had been scared of her ... "I reckon you're regretting your hotheadedness right now." I straightened. "I will free him." "You'll be lucky if she gives you a clean death. You'll be lucky if you even get brought before her." I must have turned pale, because she pursed her lips and patted me on the shoulder. "A few rules to remember, girl," she said, and we both stared at the cave mouth. The darkness reeked from its maw to poison the fresh night air. "Don't drink the wine-- it's not like what we had at the Solstice, and will do more harm than good. Don't make deals with anyone unless your life depends on it--and even then, consider whether it's worth it. And most of all: don't trust a soul in there--not even your Tamlin. Your senses are your greatest enemies; they will be waiting to betray you." I fought the urge to touch one of my daggers and nodded my thanks instead. "Do you have a plan?" "No," I admitted. "Don't expect that steel to do you any good," she said with a glance at my weapons. "I don't." I faced her, biting the inside of my lip. "There was one part of the curse. One part we can't tell you. Even now, my bones are crying out just for mentioning it. One part you have to figure out ... on your own, one part she ... she ..." She swallowed loudly. "That she still doesn't want you to know, if I can't say it," she gasped out. "But keep--keep your ears open, girl. Listen to what you hear." I touched her arm. "I will. Thank you for bringing me." For wasting precious hours, when that satchel of supplies--for herself, for her boys--said enough about where she was going. "It's a rare day indeed when someone thanks you for bringing them to their death." If I thought about the danger too long, I might lose my nerve, Tamlin or no. She wasn't helping. "I'll wish you luck nonetheless," Alis added. "Once you retrieve them, if you and your nephews need somewhere to flee," I said, "cross the wall. Go to my family's house." I told her the location. "Ask for Nesta--my eldest sister. She knows who you are, knows everything. She will shelter you in any way she can." Nesta would do it, too, I knew now, even if Alis and her boys terrified her. She would keep them safe. Alis patted my hand. "Stay alive," she said. I looked at her one last time, then at the night sky that was unfurling above us, and at the deep green of the hills. The color of Tamlin's eyes. I walked into the cave. The only sounds were my shallow breathing and the crunch of my boots on stone. Stumbling through the frigid dark, I inched onward. I kept close to the wall, and my hand soon turned numb as the cold, wet stone bit into my skin. I took small steps, fearful of some invisible pit that might send me tumbling to my doom. After what felt like an eternity, a crack of orange light cleaved through the dark. And then came the voices. Hissing and braying, eloquent and guttural--a cacophony bursting the silence like a firecracker. I pressed myself against the cave wall, but the sounds passed and faded. I crept toward the light, blinking back my blindness when I found the source: a slight fissure in the rock. It opened onto a crudely carved, fire-lit subterranean passageway. I lingered in the shadows, my heart wild in my chest. The crack in the cave wall was large enough for one person to squeeze through--so jagged and rough that it was obviously not often used. A glance at the dirt revealed no tracks, no sign of anyone else using this entrance. The hallway beyond was clear, but it veered off, obscuring my view. The passage was deathly quiet, but I remembered Alis's warning and didn't trust my ears, not when faeries could be silent as cats. Still, I had to leave this cave. Tamlin had been here for weeks already. I had to find where Amarantha kept him. And hopefully not run into anyone in the process. Killing animals and the naga had been one thing, but killing any others ... I took several deep breaths, bracing myself. It was the same as hunting. Only this time the animals were faeries. Faeries who could torture me endlessly--torture me until I begged for death. Torture me the way they tormented that Summer Court faerie whose wings had been ripped off. I didn't let myself think about those bleeding stumps as I eased toward the tiny opening, sucking in my stomach to squeeze through. My weapons scraped against the stone, and I winced at the hiss of falling pebbles. Keep moving, keep moving. Hurrying across the open hallway, I pressed into an alcove in the opposite wall. It didn't provide much cover. I slunk along the wall, pausing at the bend in the hall. This was a mistake--only an idiot would come here. I could be anywhere in Amarantha's court. Alis should have given me more information. I should have been smart enough to ask. Or smart enough to think of another way--any way but this. I risked a glance around the comer and almost sobbed in frustration. Another hallway carved out of the mountain's pale stone, lined on either side by torches. No shadowy spots for concealment, and at its other end, my view was yet again obscured by a sharp turn. It was wide open. I was as good as a starving doe, ripping bark off a tree in a clearing. But the halls were silent--the voices I'd heard earlier were gone. And if I heard anyone, I could sprint back to that cave mouth. I could do reconnaissance for a time, gather information, find out where Tamlin was-- No. A second opportunity might not arise for a while. I had to act now. If I stopped for too long, I'd never work up the nerve again. I made to slip around the comer. Long, bony fingers wrapped around my arm, and I went rigid. A pointed, leathery gray face came into view, and its silver fangs glistened as it smiled at me. "Hello," it hissed. "What's something like you doing here?" I knew that voice. It still haunted my nightmares. So it was all I could do to keep from screaming as its bat-like ears cocked, and I realized that I stood before the Attor. <|title|>Chapter 34 <|startofchapter|>The Attor kept its icy grip on my upper arm as it half dragged me to the throne room. It didn't bother to strip me of my weapons. We both knew they were of little use. Tamlin. Alis and her boys. My sisters. Lucien. I silently chanted their names again and again as the Attor loomed above me, a demon of malice. Its leathery wings rustled occasionally--and had I been able to speak without screaming, I might have asked why it hadn't killed me outright. The Attor just tugged me onward with that slithering gait, its clawed feet making leisurely scratches on the cave floor. It looked unnervingly identical to how I had painted it. Leering faces--cruel and harsh--watched me go by, none of them looking remotely concerned or disturbed that I was in the claws of the Attor. Faeries--lots of them--but few High Fae to be seen. We strode through two ancient, enormous stone doors--taller than Tamlin's manor-- and into a vast chamber carved from pale rock, upheld by countless carved pillars. That small part of me that had again become trivial and useless noted that the carvings weren't just ornate designs, but actually depicted faeries and High Fae and animals in various environments and states of movement. Countless stories of Prythian were etched on them. Chandeliers of jewels hung between the pillars, staining the red marble floor with color. Here--here were the High Fae. An assembled crowd took up most of the space, some of them dancing to strange, off- kilter music, some milling about chatting--a party of sorts. I thought I spied some glittering masks among the attendees, but everything was a blur of sharp teeth and fine clothing. The Attor hurled me forward, and the world spun. The cold marble floor was unyielding as I slammed into it, my bones groaning and barking. I pushed myself up, sparks dancing in my eyes, but stayed on the ground, kept low, as I beheld the dais before me. A few steps led onto the platform. I lifted my head higher. There, lounging on a black throne, was Amarantha. Though lovely, she wasn't as devastatingly beautiful as I had imagined, wasn't some goddess of darkness and spite. It made her all the more petrifying. Her red-gold hair was neatly braided and woven through her golden crown, the deep color enriching her snow- white skin, which, in turn, set off her ruby lips. But while her ebony eyes shone, there was ... something that sucked at her beauty, some kind of permanent sneer to her features that made her allure seem contrived and cold. To paint her would have driven me to madness. The highest commander of the King of Hybern. She'd slaughtered human armies centuries ago, had murdered her slaves rather than free them. And she'd captured all of Prythian in a matter of days. Then I looked to the black rock throne beside her, and my arms buckled beneath me. He was still wearing that golden mask, still wearing his warrior's clothes, that baldric --even though there were no knives sheathed along it, not a single weapon anywhere on him. His eyes didn't widen; his mouth didn't tighten. No claws, no fangs. He just stared at me, unfeeling--unmoved. Unimpressed. "What's this?" Amarantha said, her voice lilting despite the adder's smile she gave me. From her slender, creamy neck hung a long, thin chain--and from it dangled a single, age- worn bone the size of a finger. I didn't want to consider whom it might have belonged to as I remained on the floor. If I shifted my arm, I could draw my dagger-- "Just a human thing I found downstairs," the Attor hissed, and a forked tongue darted out between its razor-sharp teeth. It flapped its wings once, blasting foul-smelling air at me, and then neatly tucked them behind its skeletal body. "Obviously," Amarantha purred. I avoided meeting her eyes, focusing on Tamlin's brown boots. He was ten feet from me--ten feet, and not saying a word, not even looking horrified or angry. "But why should I bother with her?" The Attor chuckled, the sound like sizzling water on a griddle, and a taloned foot jabbed my side. "Tell Her Majesty why you were sneaking around the catacombs--why you came out of the old cave that leads to the Spring Court." Would it be better to kill the Attor, or to try to make it to Amarantha? The Attor kicked me again, and I winced as its claws bit into my ribs. "Tell Her Majesty, you human filth." I needed time--I needed to figure out my surroundings. If Tamlin was under some kind of spell, then I would have to worry about grabbing him. I eased to my feet, keeping my hands within casual reach of my daggers. I stared at Amarantha's glittering golden gown rather than meet her eyes. "I came to claim the one I love," I said quietly. Perhaps the curse could still be broken. Again I looked at him, and the sight of those emerald eyes was a balm. "Oh?" Amarantha said, leaning forward. "I've come to claim Tamlin, High Lord of the Spring Court." A gasp rippled through the assembled court. But Amarantha tipped back her head and laughed--a raven's caw. The High Queen turned to Tamlin, and her lips pulled back in a wicked smile. "You certainly were busy all those years. Developed a taste for human beasts, did you?" He said nothing, his face impassive. What had she done? He didn't move--her curse had worked, then. I was too late. I'd failed him, damned him. "But," Amarantha said slowly. I could sense the Attor and the entire court looming behind me. "It makes me wonder--if only one human girl could be taken once she killed your sentinel ..." Her eyes sparked. "Oh, you are delicious. You let me torture that innocent girl to keep this one safe? You lovely thing! You actually made a human worm love you. Marvelous." She clapped her hands, and Tamlin merely looked away from her, the only reaction I'd seen from him. Tortured. She'd tortured-- "Let him go," I said, trying to keep my voice steady. Amarantha laughed again. "Give me one reason why I shouldn't destroy you where you stand, human." Her teeth were so straight and white--almost glowing. My blood pounded in my veins, but I kept my chin high as I said, "You tricked him-- he is bound unfairly." Tamlin had gone very, very still. Amarantha clicked her tongue and looked at one of her slender white hands--at the ring on her index finger. A ring, I noticed as she lowered her hand again, set with what looked like ... like a human eye encased in crystal. I could have sworn it swiveled inside. "You human beasts are so uncreative. We spent years teaching you poetry and fine speech, and that is all you can come up with? I should rip out your tongue for letting it go to waste." I clamped my teeth together. "But I'm curious: What eloquence will pour from your lips when you behold what you should have been?" My brows narrowed as Amarantha pointed behind me, that hideous eye ring indeed looking with her, and I turned. There, nailed high on the wall of the enormous cavern, was the mangled corpse of a young woman. Her skin was burned in places, her fingers were bent at odd angles, and garish red lines crisscrossed her naked body. I could hardly hear Amarantha over the roar in my ears. "Perhaps I should have listened when she said she'd never seen Tamlin before," Amarantha mused. "Or when she insisted she'd never killed a faerie, never hunted a day in her life. Though her screaming was delightful. I haven't heard such lovely music in ages." Her next words were directed at me. "I should thank you for giving Rhysand her name instead of yours." Clare Beddor. This was where they'd taken her, what they'd done to her after they burned her family alive in their house. This was what I'd done to her, by giving Rhysand her name to protect my family. My insides twisted; it was a concentrated effort not to empty my stomach onto the stones. The Attor's talons dug into my shoulders as it shoved me around to face Amarantha, who was still giving me that snake's smile. I had as good as killed Clare. 'd saved my own life and damned her. That rotting body on the wall should be mine. Mine. Mine. "Come now, precious," Amarantha said. "What have you to say to that?" I wanted to spit that she deserved to burn in Hell for eternity, but I could only see Clare's body nailed there, even as I stared blankly at Tamlin. He'd let them kill Clare like that--to keep them from knowing that I was alive. My eyes stung as bile burned my throat. "Do you still wish to claim someone who would do that to an innocent?" Amarantha said softly--consolingly. I snapped my gaze to her. I wouldn't let Clare's death be in vain. I wasn't going down without a fight. "Yes," I said. "Yes, I do." Her lip curled back, revealing too-sharp canines. And as I stared into her black eyes, I realized I was going to die. But Amarantha leaned back in her throne and crossed her legs. "Well, Tamlin," she said, putting a proprietary hand on his arm, "I don't suppose you ever expected this to occur." She waved a hand in my general direction. A murmur of laughter from those assembled echoed around me, hitting me like stones. "What do you have to say, High Lord?" I looked at the face I loved so dearly, and his next words almost sent me to my knees. "I've never seen her before. Someone must have glamoured her as a joke. Probably Rhysand." Still trying to protect me, even now, even here. "Oh, that's not even a halfway decent lie." Amarantha angled her head. "Could it be-- could it be that you, despite your words so many years ago, return the human's feelings? A girl with hate in her heart for our kind has managed to fall in love with a faerie. And a faerie whose father once slaughtered the human masses by my side has actually fallen in love with her, too?" She let out that crow's laugh again. "Oh, this is too good--this is too fun." She fingered the bone hanging from her necklace and looked at the encased eye upon her hand. "I suppose if anyone can appreciate the moment," she said to the ring, "it would be you, Jurian." She smiled prettily. "A pity your human whore on the side never bothered to save you, though." Jurian--that was his eye, his finger bone. Horror coiled in my gut. Through whatever evil, whatever power, she somehow held his soul, his consciousness, to the ring, the bone. Tamlin still looked at me without recognition, without a flicker of feeling. Perhaps she had used that same power to glamour him; perhaps she'd taken all his memories. The queen picked at her nails. "Things have been awfully boring since Clare decided to die on me. Killing you outright, human, would be dull." She flicked her gaze to me, then back to her nails--to the ring on her finger. "But Fate stirs the Cauldron in strange ways. Perhaps my darling Clare had to die in order for me to have some true amusement with you." My bowels turned watery--I couldn't help it. "You came to claim Tamlin?" Amarantha said--it wasn't a question, but a challenge. "Well, as it happens, I'm bored to tears of his sullen silence. I was worried when he didn't flinch while I played with darling Clare, when he didn't even show those lovely claws ... "But I'll make a bargain with you, human," she said, and warning bells pealed in my mind. Unless your life depends on it, Alis had said. "You complete three tasks of my choosing--three tasks to prove how deep that human sense of loyalty and love runs, and Tamlin is yours. Just three little challenges to prove your dedication, to prove to me, to darling Jurian, that your kind can indeed love true, and you can have your High Lord." She turned to Tamlin. "Consider it a favor, High Lord--these human dogs can make our kind so lust-blind that we lose all common sense. Better for you to see her true nature now." "I want his curse broken, too," I blurted. She raised a brow, her smile growing, revealing far too many of those white teeth. "I complete all three of your tasks, and his curse is broken, and we--and all his court--can leave here. And remain free forever," I added. Magic was specific, Alis had said--that was how Amarantha had tricked them. I wouldn't let loopholes be my downfall. "Of course," Amarantha purred. "I'll throw in another element, if you don't mind--just to see if you're worthy of one of our kind, if you're smart enough to deserve him." Jurian's eye swiveled wildly, and she clicked her tongue at it. The eye stopped moving. "I'll give you a way out, girl," she went on. "You'll complete all the tasks--or, when you can't stand it anymore, all you have to do is answer one question." I could barely hear her above the blood pounding in my ears. "A riddle. You solve the riddle, and his curse will be broken. Instantaneously. I won't even need to lift my finger and he'll be free. Say the right answer, and he's yours. You can answer it at any time--but if you answer incorrectly ..." She pointed, and I didn't need to turn to know she gestured to Clare. I turned her words over, looking for traps and loopholes within her phrasing. But it all sounded right. "And what if I fail your tasks?" Her smile became almost grotesque, and she rubbed a thumb across the dome of her ring. "If you fail a task, there won't be anything left of you for me to play with." A chill slithered down my spine. Alis had warned me--warned me against bargains. But Amarantha would kill me in an instant if I said no. "What is the nature of my tasks?" "Oh, revealing that would take all the fun out of it. But I'll tell you that you'll have one task every month--at the full moon." "And in the meantime?" I dared a glance at Tamlin. The gold in his eyes was brighter than I remembered. "In the meantime," Amarantha said a bit sharply, "you shall either remain in your cell or do whatever additional work I require." "If you run me ragged, won't that put me at a disadvantage?" I knew she was losing interest--that she hadn't expected me to question her so much. But I had to try to gain some kind of edge. "Nothing beyond basic housework. It's only fair for you to earn your keep." I could have strangled her for that, but I nodded. "Then we are agreed." I knew she waited for me to echo her response, but I had to make sure. "If I complete your three tasks or solve your riddle, you'll do as I request?" "Of course," Amarantha said. "Is it agreed?" His face ghastly white, Tamlin's eyes met with mine, and they almost imperceptibly widened. No. But it was either this or death--death like Clare's, slow and brutal. The Attor hissed behind me, a warning to reply. I didn't believe in Fate or the Cauldron--and I had no other choice. Because when I looked into Tamlin's eyes, even now, seated beside Amarantha as her slave or worse, I loved him with a fierceness that swept up my whole heart. Because when he had widened his eyes, I'd known he still loved me. I had nothing left but that, but the shred of fool's hope that I might win--that I might outwit and defeat a Faerie Queen as ancient as the stone beneath me. "Well?" Amarantha demanded. Behind me, I sensed the Attor preparing to pounce, to beat the answer from me, if need be. She'd tricked them all, but I hadn't survived poverty and years in the woods for naught. My best chance lay in revealing nothing about myself, or what I knew. What was her court but another forest, another hunting ground? I glanced at Tamlin one last time before I said "Agreed." Amarantha gave me a small, horrible smile, and magic sizzled in the air between us as she snapped her fingers. She nestled back in her throne. "Give her a greeting worthy of my hall," she said to someone behind me. The Attor's hiss was my only warning as something rock-hard collided with my jaw. I was thrown sideways, stunned from the pain, but another brutal blow to my face awaited. Bones crunched--my bones. My legs twisted beneath me, and the Attor's leathery skin grated against my cheek as it punched me again. I ricocheted away, but met with the fist of another--a twisted, lesser faerie whose face I didn't glimpse. It was like being slugged with a brick. Crunch, crack. I think there were three of them, and I became their punching bag--passed off from blow to blow, my bones screaming in agony. Maybe I was screaming in agony, too. Blood sprayed from my mouth, and its metallic tang coated my tongue before I knew no more. <|title|>Chapter 35 <|startofchapter|>My senses slowly returned to me, each one more painful than the last. The sound of dripping water first, then the fading echo of heavy footsteps. A lingering coppery taste coated my mouth--blood. Above the wheezing of what had to be my clogged nostrils, the tang of mold and the reek of mildew scented the damp, cold air. Sharp bits of hay jabbed my cheek. My tongue probed the makings of a split lip, and the movement set my face on fire. Wincing, I opened my eyes, but could only manage to widen them a little--swelling. What I beheld through my undoubtedly black eyes didn't do much for my spirits. I was in a prison cell. My weapons were gone, and my only sources of light were the torches beyond the door. Amarantha had said a cell was to be where I would spend my time, but even as I sat up--my head so dizzy I almost blacked out again--my heartbeat quickened. A dungeon. I examined the slants of light that crept in through the cracks between the door and the wall, then gingerly touched my face. It ached--ached worse than anything I'd ever endured. I bit down on a cry as my fingers grazed my nose, flakes of blood crumbling from my nostrils. It was broken. Broken. I would have clenched my teeth had my jaw not been a throbbing mess of agony, too. I couldn't panic. No, I had to keep my tears in check, had to keep my wits together. I had to survey the damage as best I could, then figure out what to do. Maybe my shirt could be used for bandages--maybe they would give me water at some point to wash out the injuries. Taking a breath that was all too shallow, I explored the rest of my face. My jaw wasn't broken, and though my eyes were swollen and my lip was split, the worst damage was to my nose. I curled my knees to my chest, grasping them tightly as I reined in my breathing. I'd violated one of Alis's rules. I'd had no choice, though. Seeing Tamlin seated beside Amarantha ... My jaw protested, but I ground my teeth anyway. The full moon--it had been a half moon when I left my father's home. How long had I been unconscious down here? I wasn't foolish enough to believe that any amount of time would prepare me for Amarantha's first task. I didn't allow myself to imagine what she had in mind for me. It was enough to know that she expected me to die--that there wouldn't be enough left of me for her to torture. I gripped my legs harder to keep my hands from shaking. Somewhere--not too far off --screaming began. A high-pitched, pleading bleat, accentuated with crescendos of shrieking that made bile sting in my throat. I might sound like that when faced with Amarantha's first task. A whip cracked, and the screaming built, hardly pausing for a breath. Clare had probably cried similarly. I had as good as tortured her myself. What had she made of all this--all these faeries lusting after her blood and misery? I deserved this--deserved whatever pain and suffering was in store--if only for what she had endured. But ... but I would make it right. Somehow. I must have drifted off at some point, because I awoke to the scrape of my cell door against stone. Forgetting the cascading pain in my face, I scrambled to duck into the shadows of the nearest corner. Someone slipped into my cell and swiftly shut the door-- leaving it just a bit ajar. "Feyre?" I tried to stand, but my legs shook so badly that I couldn't move. "Lucien?" I breathed, and the hay crunched as he dropped to the ground before me. "By the Cauldron, are you all right?" "My face--" A small light flared by his head, and as his eyes swam into view, the metal one narrowed. He hissed. "Have you lost your mind? What are you doing here?" I fought the tears--they were pointless, anyway. "I went back to the manor ... Alis told me ... told me about the curse, and I couldn't let Amarantha--" "You shouldn't have come, Feyre," he said sharply. "You weren't meant to be here. Don't you understand what he sacrificed in getting you out? How could you be so foolish?" "Well, I'm here now!" I said, louder than was wise. "I'm here, and there's nothing that can be done about it, so don't bother telling me about my weak human flesh and my stupidity! I know all that, and I..." I wanted to cover my face in my hands, but it hurt too much. "I just ... I had to tell him that I love him. To see if it wasn't too late." Lucien sat back on his heels. "So you know everything, then." I managed to nod without blacking out from the pain. My agony must have shown, because he winced. "Well, at least we don't have to lie to you anymore. Let's clean you up a bit." "I think my nose is broken. But nothing else." As I said it, I looked around him for any signs of water or bandages--and found none. It would be magic, then. Lucien glanced over his shoulder, checking the door. "The guards are drunk, but their replacements will be here soon," he said, and then studied my nose. I braced myself as I allowed him to gently touch it. Even the graze of his fingertips sent flashes of burning pain through me. "I'm going to have to set it before I can heal it." I clamped down on my blind panic. "Do it. Right now." Before I could wallow in my cowardice and tell him to forget about it. He hesitated. "Now," I panted. Too swift for me to follow, his fingers latched onto my nose. Pain lanced through me, and a crack burst through my ears, my head, before I fainted. When I came to, I could open both eyes fully, and my nose--my nose was clear, and didn't throb or send agony splintering through my face. Lucien was crouched over me, frowning. "I couldn't heal you completely--they would know someone helped you. The bruises are there, along with a hideous black eye, but ... all the swelling's gone." "And my nose?" I said, feeling it before he answered. "Fixed--as pert and pretty as before." He smirked at me. The familiar gesture made my chest tighten to the point of pain. "I thought she'd taken most of your power," I managed to say. I'd barely seen him handle magic at all while at the estate. He nodded to the little light bobbing over his shoulder. "She gave me back a fraction-- to entice Tamlin to accept her offer. But he still refuses her." He jerked his chin to my healed face. "I knew some good would come of being down here." "So you're trapped Under the Mountain, too?" A grim nod. "She's summoned all the High Lords to her now--and even those who swore obedience are now forbidden to leave until ... until your trials are over." Until I was dead was probably what he truly meant. "That ring," I said. "Is it--is it actually Jurian's eye?" Lucien cringed. "Indeed. So you really know everything, then?" "Alis didn't say what happened after Jurian and Amarantha faced each other." "They wrecked an entire battlefield, using their soldiers as shields, until their forces were nearly all dead. Jurian had been gifted some protection against her, but once they entered into single combat ... It didn't take her long to render him prone. Then she dragged him back to her camp and took weeks--weeks--to torture and kill him. She refused orders to march to the King of Hybern's aid--cost him armies and the War; she refused to do anything until she'd finished Jurian's demise. All that she kept was his finger bone and his eye. Clythia promised him that he would never die--and so long as Amarantha keeps that eye of his preserved through her magic, keeps his soul and consciousness bound to it, he'll remain trapped, watching through it. A fitting punishment for what he did, but"----Lucien tapped his own missing eye--"I'm glad she didn't do the same to me. She seems to have an obsession with that sort of thing." I shuddered. A huntress--she was little more than an immortal, cruel huntress, collecting trophies from her kills and conquests to gloat over through the ages. The rage and despair and horror Jurian must endure every day, for eternity ... Deserved, perhaps, but worse than anything I could imagine. I shook the thought from me. "Is Tamlin--" "He's--" But Lucien shot to his feet at a sound my human ears couldn't hear. "The guards are about to change rotations and are headed this way. Try not to die, will you? I already have a long list of faeries to kill--I don't need to add more to it, if only for Tamlin's sake." Which was no doubt why he'd even come down here. Lucien vanished--just vanished into the dim light. A moment later, a yellowish eye tinged with red appeared at the peephole in the door, glared at me, and continued onward. I dozed on and off for what could have been hours or days. They gave me three miserable meals of stale bread and water at no regular interval that I could detect. All I knew when the door to my cell swung open was that my relentless hunger no longer mattered, and it would be wise not to struggle when the two squat, red-skinned faeries half dragged me to the throne room. I marked the path, picking out details in the hall--interesting cracks in the walls, features in the tapestries, an odd bend--anything to remind me of the way out of the dungeons. I observed more of Amarantha's throne room this time, too, noting the exits. No windows, as we were underground. And the mountain I'd seen depicted on that map at the manor was in the heart of the land--far from the Spring Court, even farther from the wall. If I were to escape with Tamlin, my best chance would be to run for that cave in the belly of the mountain. A crowd of faeries stood along a far wall. Over their heads, I could make out the arch of a doorway. I tried not to look up at Clare's rotting body as we passed, and instead focused on the assembled court. Everyone was clad in rich, colorful clothing--all of them seeming clean and fed. Dispersed among them were faeries with masks. The Spring Court. If I had any chance of finding allies, it would be with them. I scanned the crowd for Lucien but didn't find him before I was thrown at the foot of the dais. Amarantha wore a gown of rubies, drawing attention to her red-gold hair and to her lips, which spread in a serpentine smile as I looked up at her. The Faerie Queen clicked her tongue. "You look positively dreadful." She turned to Tamlin, still at her side. His expression remained distant. "Wouldn't you say she's taken a turn for the worse?" He didn't reply; he didn't even meet my gaze. "You know," Amarantha mused, leaning against an arm of her throne, "I couldn't sleep last night, and I realized why this morning." She ran an eye over me. "I don't know your name. If you and I are going to be such close friends for the next three months, I should know your name, shouldn't I?" I prevented myself from nodding. There was something charming and inviting about her--a part of me began to understand why the High Lords had fallen under her thrall, believed in her lies. I hated her for it. When I didn't reply, Amarantha frowned. "Come, now, pet. You know my name--isn't it fair that I know yours?" There was movement to my right, and I tensed as the Attor appeared through the parted crowd, grinning at me with row after row of teeth. "After all"--Amarantha waved an elegant hand to the space behind me, the crystal casing around Jurian's eye catching the light--"you've already learned the consequences of giving false names." A black cloud wrapped around me as I sensed Clare's nailed form on the wall behind me. Still, I kept my mouth shut. "Rhysand," Amarantha said--not needing to raise her voice to summon him. My heart became a leaden weight as those casual, strolling steps sounded from behind. They stopped when they were beside me--far too close for my liking. From the corner of my eye, I studied the High Lord of the Night Court as he bowed at the waist. Night still seemed to ripple off him, like some near-invisible cloak. Amarantha lifted her brows. "Is this the girl you saw at Tamlin's estate?" He brushed some invisible fleck of dust off his black tunic before he surveyed me. His violet eyes held boredom--and disdain. "I suppose." "But did you or did you not tell me that girl," Amarantha said, her tone sharpening as she pointed to Clare, "was the one you saw?" He stuffed his hands into his pockets. "Humans all look alike to me." Amarantha gave him a saccharine smile. "And what about faeries?" Rhysand bowed again--so smooth it looked like a dance. "Among a sea of mundane faces, yours is a work of art." Had I not been straddling the line between life and death, I might have snorted. Humans all look alike ... I didn't believe him for a second. Rhysand knew exactly how I looked--he'd recognized me that day at the manor. I willed my features into neutrality as Amarantha's attention again returned to me. "What's her name?" she demanded of Rhysand. "How would I know? She lied to me." Either toying with Amarantha was a joke to him --as much of a joke as impaling a head in Tamlin's garden--or ... it was just more court scheming. I braced myself for the scrape of those talons against my mind, braced myself for the order I was sure she was to give next. Still, I kept my lips sealed. I prayed Nesta had hired those scouts and guards--prayed she'd persuaded my father to take the precautions. "If you're inclined to play games, girl, then I suppose we can do this the fun way," Amarantha said. She snapped her fingers at the Attor, who reached into the crowd and grabbed someone. Red hair glinted, and I jolted a step as the Attor yanked Lucien forward by the collar of his green tunic. No. No. Lucien thrashed against the Attor but could do nothing against those needlelike nails as it forced him to his knees. The Attor smiled, releasing his tunic, but kept close. Amarantha flicked a finger in Rhysand's direction. The High Lord of the Night Court lifted a groomed brow. "Hold his mind," she commanded. My heart dropped to the floor. Lucien went utterly still, sweat gleaming on his neck as Rhysand bowed his head to the queen and faced him. Behind them, pressing to the front of the crowd, came four tall, red-haired High Fae. Toned and muscled, some of them looking like warriors about to set foot on a battlefield, some like pretty courtiers, they all stared at Lucien--and grinned. The four remaining sons of the High Lord of the Autumn Court. "Her name, Emissary?" Amarantha asked of Lucien. But Lucien only glanced at Tamlin before closing his eyes and squaring his shoulders. Rhysand began smiling faintly, and I shuddered at the memory of what those invisible claws had felt like as they gripped my mind. How easy it would have been for him to crush it. Lucien's brothers lurked on the edges of the crowd--no remorse, no fear on their handsome faces. Amarantha sighed. "I thought you would have learned your lesson, Lucien. Though this time your silence will damn you as much as your tongue." Lucien kept his eyes shut. Ready--he was ready for Rhysand to wipe out everything he was, to turn his mind, his self, into dust. "Her name?" she asked Tamlin, who didn't reply. His eyes were fixed on Lucien's brothers, as if marking who was smiling the broadest. Amarantha ran a nail down the arm of her throne. "I don't suppose your handsome brothers know, Lucien," she purred. "If we did, Lady, we would be the first to tell you," said the tallest. He was lean, well dressed, every inch of him a court-trained bastard. Probably the eldest, given the way even the ones who looked like born warriors stared at him with deference and calculation--and fear. Amarantha gave him a considering smile and lifted her hand. Rhysand cocked his head, his eyes narrowing slightly on Lucien. Lucien stiffened. A groan slipped out of him, and-- "Feyre!" I shouted. "My name is Feyre." It was all I could do to keep from sinking to my knees as Amarantha nodded and Rhysand stepped back. He hadn't even removed his hands from his pockets. She must have allowed him more power than the others, then, if he could still inflict such harm while leashed to her. Or else his power before she'd stolen it had been ... extraordinary, for this to be considered the basest remnants. Lucien sagged on the ground, trembling. His brothers frowned--the eldest going so far as to bare his teeth at me in a silent snarl. I ignored him. "Feyre," Amarantha said, testing my name, the taste of the two syllables on her tongue. "An old name--from our earlier dialects. Well, Feyre," she said. I could have wept with relief when she didn't ask for my family name. "I promised you a riddle." Everything became thick and murky. Why did Tamlin do nothing, say nothing? What had Lucien been about to say before he'd fled my cell? "Solve this, Feyre, and you and your High Lord, and all his court, may immediately leave with my blessing. Let's see if you are indeed clever enough to deserve one of our kind." Her dark eyes shone, and I cleared my mind as best I could as she spoke. There are those who seek me a lifetime but never we meet, And those I kiss but who trample me beneath ungrateful feet. At times I seem to favor the clever and the fair, But I bless all those who are brave enough to dare. By large, my ministrations are soft-handed and sweet, But scorned, I become a difficult beast to defeat. For though each of my strikes lands a powerful blow, When I kill, I do it slow... I blinked, and she repeated herself, smiling when she finished, smug as a cat. My mind was void, a blank mass of uselessness. Could it be some sort of disease? My mother had died of typhus, and her cousin had died of malaria after going to Bharat ... But none of those symptoms seemed to match the riddle. Maybe it was a person? A ripple of laughter spread across those assembled behind us, the loudest from Lucien's brothers. Rhysand was watching me, wreathed in night and smiling faintly. The answer was so close--one little answer and we could all be free. Immediately, she'd said--as opposed to ... wait, had the conditions of my trials been different from those of the riddle? She'd emphasized immediately only when talking about solving the riddle. No, I couldn't think about that right now. I had to solve this riddle. We could all be free. Free. But I couldn't do it--I couldn't even come up with a possibility. I'd be better off slitting my own throat and ending my suffering there, before she could rip me to shreds. I was a fool--a common human idiot. I looked to Tamlin. The gold in his eyes flickered, but his face betrayed nothing. "Think on it," Amarantha said consolingly, and flicked a grin down at her ring--at the eye swiveling within. "When it comes to you, I'll be waiting." I gazed at Tamlin even as I was pulled away to the dungeons, my vacant mind reeling. As they locked me in my cell once more, I knew I was going to lose. I spent two days in that cell, or at least I figured it was two days, based on the meal pattern I'd begun to work out. I ate the decent parts of the half-moldy food, and though I hoped for it, Lucien never came to see me. I knew better than to wish for Tamlin. I had little to do other than ponder Amarantha's riddle. The more I thought about it, the less sense it made. I dwelled on various kinds of poisons and venomous animals--and that yielded nothing beyond my growing sense of stupidity. Not to mention the nagging feeling that she might have wound up tricking me with this bargain when she'd emphasized immediately regarding the riddle. Maybe she meant she would not free us immediately after I finished her trials. That she could take however long she wanted. No--no, I was just being paranoid. I was overthinking it. But the riddle could free us all-- instantaneously. I had to solve it. While I'd sworn not to think too long on what tasks awaited me, I didn't doubt Amarantha's imagination, and I often awoke sweating and panting from my restless dreams--dreams in which I was trapped within a crystal ring, forever silent and forced to witness their bloodthirsty, cruel world, cleaved from everything I'd ever loved. Amarantha had claimed there wouldn't be enough left of me to play with if I failed a trial--and I prayed that she hadn't lied. Better to be obliterated than to endure Jurian's fate. Still, fear like nothing I had ever known swallowed me whole when my cell door opened and the red-skinned guards told me that the full moon had arisen. <|title|>Chapter 36 <|startofchapter|>The sounds of a teeming crowd reverberated against the passageway. My armed escort didn't bother with drawn weapons as they tugged me forward. I wasn't even shackled. Someone or something would catch me before I moved three feet and gut me where I stood. The cacophony of laughter, shouting, and unearthly howls worsened when the hall opened into what had to be a massive arena. There had been no attempts to decorate the torch-lit cavern--and I couldn't tell if it had been hewn from the rock or if it was formed by nature. The floor was slick and muddy, and I struggled to keep my footing as we walked. But it was the enormous, riotous crowd that turned my insides cold as they stared at me. I couldn't decipher what they were shouting, but I had a good-enough idea. Their cruel, ethereal faces and wide grins told me everything I needed to know. Not just lesser faeries but High Fae, too, their excitement making their faces almost as feral as their more unearthly brethren. I was hauled toward a wooden platform erected above the crowd. Atop it sat Amarantha and Tamlin, and before it ... I did my best to keep my chin high as I beheld the exposed labyrinth of tunnels and trenches running along the floor. The crowd stood along the banks, blocking my view of what lay within as I was thrown to my knees before Amarantha's platform. The half- frozen mud seeped into my pants. I rose on trembling legs. Around the platform stood a group of six males, secluded from the main crowd. From their cold, beautiful faces, from that echo of power still about them, I knew they were the other High Lords of Prythian. I ignored Rhysand as soon as I noticed his feline smile, the corona of darkness around him. Amarantha had only to raise a hand and the roaring crowd silenced. It became so quiet that I could almost hear my heart beating. "Well, Feyre," the Faerie Queen said. I tried not to look at the hand she rested on Tamlin's knee, that ring as vulgar as the gesture itself. "Your first task is here. Let us see how deep that human affection of yours runs." I ground my teeth and almost exposed them to her. Tamlin's face remained blank. "I took the liberty of learning a few things about you," Amarantha drawled. "It was only fair, you know." Every instinct, every bit of me that was intrinsically human, screamed to run, but I kept my feet planted, locking my knees to avoid them giving out. "I think you'll like this task," she said. She waved a hand, and the Attor stepped forward to part the crowd, clearing the way to the lip of a trench. "Go ahead. Look." I obeyed. The trenches, probably twenty feet deep, were slick with mud--in fact, they seemed to have been dug from mud. I fought to keep my footing as I peered in farther. The trenches ran in a maze along the entire floor of the chamber, and their path made little sense. It was full of pits and holes, which undoubtedly led to underground tunnels, and-- Hands slammed into my back, and I cried out as I had the sickening feeling of falling before being suddenly jerked up by a bone-hard grip--up, up into the air. Laughter echoed through the chamber as I dangled from the Attor's claws, its powerful wing-beats booming across the arena. It swooped down into the trench and dropped me on my feet. Mud squelched, and I swung my arms as I teetered and slipped. More laughter, even as I remained upright. The mud smelled atrocious, but I swallowed my gag. I turned to find Amarantha's platform now floating to the lip of the trench. She looked down at me, smiling that serpent's grin. "Rhysand tells me you're a huntress," she said, and my heartbeat faltered. He must have read my thoughts again, or ... or maybe he'd found my family, and-- Amarantha flicked her fingers in my direction. "Hunt this." The faeries cheered, and I saw gold flash between spindly, multi-hued palms. Betting on my life--on how long I would last once this started. I raised my eyes to Tamlin. His emerald gaze was frozen, and I memorized the lines of his face, the shape of his mask, the shade of his hair, one last time. "Release it," Amarantha called. I trembled to the marrow of my bones as a grate groaned, and then a slithering, swift-moving noise filled the chamber. My shoulders rose toward my ears. The crowd quieted to a murmur, silent enough to hear a guttural kind of grumble, so I could feel the vibrations in the ground as whatever it was rushed at me. Amarantha clicked her tongue, and I whipped my head to her. Her brows rose. "Run," she whispered. Then it appeared. I ran. It was a giant worm, or what might have once been a worm had its front end not become an enormous mouth filled with ring after ring of razor-sharp teeth. It barreled toward me, its pinkish brown body surging and twisting with horrific ease. These trenches were its lair. And I was dinner. Sliding and slipping on the reeking mud, I hurtled down the length of the trench, wishing I'd memorized more of the layout in the few moments I'd had, knowing full well that my path could lead to a dead end, where I would surely-- The crowd roared, drowning out the slurping and gnashing noises of the worm, but I didn't dare a glance over my shoulder. The ever-nearing stench of it told me enough about how close it was. I didn't have the breath for a sob of relief as I found a fork in the pathway and veered sharply left. I had to get as much distance between us as possible; I had to find a spot where I could make a plan, a spot where I could find an advantage. Another fork--I veered left again. Perhaps if I took as many lefts as I could, I could make a circle, and somehow come up behind the creature, and-- No, that was absurd. I'd have to be thrice as fast as the worm, and right now, I could barely keep ahead of it. I slid into a wall as I made another left and slammed into the slick muck. Cold, reeking, smothering. I wiped it from my eyes to find the leering faces of faeries floating above me, laughing. I ran for my life. I reached a straight, flat stretch of trench and threw my strength to my legs as I bolted down its course. I finally dared a look over my shoulder, and my fear became wild and thrashing as the worm surged into the path, hot on my trail. I almost missed a slender opening in the side of the trench thanks to that look, and I gave up valuable steps as I skidded to a halt to squeeze myself through the gap. It was too small for the worm, but the creature could probably shatter through the mud. If not, its teeth could do the trick. But it was worth the risk. As I made to pull myself through, a force grabbed me back. No--not a force, but the walls. The crack was too small, and I'd so frantically thrown myself through it that I'd become wedged between it. My back to the worm, and too far between the walls to be able to turn, I couldn't see as it approached. The smell, though--the smell was growing worse. I pushed and pulled, but the mud was too slick, and held fast. The trenches reverberated with the thunderous movements of the worm. I could almost feel its reeking breath upon my half-exposed body, could hear those teeth slashing through the air, closer and closer. Not like this. It couldn't end like this. I clawed at the mud, twisting, tearing at anything to pull me through. The worm neared with each of my heartbeats, the smell nearly overpowering my senses. I ripped away mud, wriggling, kicking, and pushing, sobbing through my gritted teeth. Not like this. The ground shook. A stench wrapped right around me, and hot air slammed into my body. Its teeth clicked together. Grabbing onto the wall, I pulled and pulled. There was a squelch, and a sudden release of pressure around my middle, and I fell through the crack, sprawling in the mud. The crowd sighed. I didn't have time for tears of relief as I found myself in another passageway, and I launched farther into the labyrinth. From the continuing quieted roars, I knew the worm had overshot me. But that made no sense--the passage offered no place to hide. It would have seen me stuck there. Unless it couldn't break through and was now taking some alternate route, and would spring upon me. I didn't check my speed, though I knew I wasted momentum by smashing into wall after wall as I made each sharp turn. The worm also had to lose its speed making these bends--a creature that big couldn't take the turns without slowing, no matter how dexterous it might be. I risked a look at the crowd. Their faces were tight with disappointment, and turned away entirely from me, toward the other end of the chamber. That was where the worm had to be--that was where that passage had ended. It hadn't seen where I went. It hadn't seen me. It was blind. I was so surprised that I didn't notice the enormous pit that opened before me, hidden by a slight rise, and it was all I could do to not scream as I tumbled in. Air, empty air, and I slammed into ankle-deep mud, and the crowd cried out. The mud softened the landing, but my teeth still sang with the impact. But nothing was broken, nothing hurt. A few faeries peered in, leering from high above the gaping mouth of the pit. I whirled around, scanning my surroundings, trying to find the fastest way out. The pit itself opened into a small, dark tunnel, but there was no way to climb up--the wall was too steep. I was trapped. Gasping for breath, I fumbled a few steps into the blackness of the tunnel. I bit down on my shriek as something beneath my foot crunched hard. I staggered back, and my tailbone wailed in pain. I kept scrambling away, but my hand connected with something smooth and hard, and I lifted it to see a gleam of white. Through my muddy fingers, I knew that texture all too well. Bone. Twisting onto my hands and knees, I patted the ground, moving farther into the darkness. Bones, bones, bones, of every shape and size, and I swallowed my scream as I realized what this place was. It was only when my hand landed on the smooth dome of a skull that I jumped to my feet. I had to get out. Now. "Feyre," I heard Amarantha's distant call. "You're ruining everyone's fun!" She said it as if I were a lousy shuttlecock partner. "Come out!" I certainly would not, but she told me what I needed to know. The worm didn't know where I was; it couldn't smell me. I had precious seconds to get out. As my sight adjusted to the darkness of the worm's den, mounds and mounds of bones gleamed, piles rolling away into the gloom. The chalkiness of the mud had to be from endless layers of them decomposing. I had to get out now, had to find a place to hide that wasn't a death trap. I stumbled out of the den, bones clattering away. Once more in the open air of the pit, I groped one of its steep walls. Several green- faced faeries barked curses at me, but I ignored them as I tried to scale the wall, made it an inch, and slid to the floor. I couldn't get out without a rope or a ladder, and plunging farther into the worm's lair to see if there was another way out wasn't an option. Of course, there was a back door. Every animal's den had two exits, but I wasn't about to risk the darkness--effectively blinding myself--and completely eliminate my small edge. I needed a way up. I tried scaling the wall again. The faeries were still murmuring their discontent; as long as they remained that way, I was fine. I again latched onto the muddy wall, digging into the pliable dirt. All I got was freezing mud digging beneath my nails as I slid to the ground yet again. The stench of the place invaded every part of me. I bit down on my nausea as I tried again and again. The faeries were laughing now. "A mouse in a trap," one of them said. "Need a stepping stool?" another crowed. A stepping stool. I whirled toward the piles of bones, then pushed my hand hard against the wall. It felt firm. The entire place was made of packed mud, and if this creature was anything like its smaller, harmless brethren, I could assume that the stench--and therefore the mud itself-- was the remnant of whatever had passed through its system after it sucked the bones clean. Disregarding that wretched fact, I seized the spark of hope and grabbed the two biggest, strongest bones I could quickly find. Both were longer than my leg and heavy--so heavy as I jammed them into the wall. I didn't know what the creature usually ate, but it must have been at least cattle-sized. "What's it doing? What's it planning?" one of the faeries hissed. I grabbed a third bone and impaled it deep into the wall, as high as I could reach. I grabbed a fourth, slightly smaller bone and set it into my belt, strapping it across my back. Testing the three bones with a few sharp tugs, I sucked in my breath, ignored the twittering faeries, and began climbing my ladder. My stepping stool. The first bone held firm, and I grunted as I grabbed the second bone-step and pulled myself up. I was putting my foot on the step when another idea flashed, and I paused. The faeries--not too far off--began to shout again. But it could work. It could work, if I played it right. It could work, because it had to work. I dropped back to the mud, and the faeries watching me murmured their confusion. I drew the bone from my belt, and with a sharp intake of breath, I snapped it across my knee. My own bones burned with pain, but the shaft broke, leaving me with two sharp-ended spikes. It was going to work. If Amarantha wanted me to hunt, I would hunt. I walked to the middle of the pit opening, calculated the distance, and plunged the two bones into the ground. I returned back to the mound of bones and made quick work of whatever I could find that was sturdy and sharp. When my knee became too tender to use as a breaking point, I snapped the bones with my foot. One by one, I stuck them into the muddy floor beneath the pit opening until the whole area, save for one small spot, was filled with white lances. I didn't double-check my work--it would succeed, or I would wind up among those bones on the floor. Just one chance. That was all I had. Better than no chances at all. I dashed to my bone ladder and ignored the sting of the splinters in my fingers as I climbed to the third rung, where I balanced before embedding a fourth bone in the wall. And just like that, I heaved myself out of the pit mouth, and almost wept to be exposed to the open air once more. I secured the three bones I'd taken in my belt, their weight a comforting presence, and rushed to the nearest wall. I grabbed a fistful of the reeking mud and smeared it across my face. The faeries hissed as I grabbed more, this time coating my hair, then my neck. Already accustomed to the staggering reek, my eyes watered only a little as I made swift work of painting myself. I even paused to roll on the ground. Every inch of me had to be covered. Every damn inch. If the creature was blind, then it relied on smell--and my smell would be my greatest weakness. I rubbed mud on me until I was certain I was nothing more than a pair of blue-gray eyes. I doused myself a final time, my hands so slick that I could barely maintain a grasp on one of the sharp-ended bones as I drew it from my belt. "What's it doing?" the green-faced faerie whined again. A deep, elegant voice replied this time. "She's building a trap." Rhysand. "But the Middengard--" "Relies on its scent to see," Rhysand answered, and I gave a special glower for him as I glanced at the rim of the trench and found him smiling at me. "And Feyre just became invisible." His violet eyes twinkled. I made an obscene gesture before I broke into a run, heading straight for the worm. I placed the remaining bones at especially tight corners, knowing well enough that I couldn't turn at the speed I hoped I would be running. It didn't take much to find the worm, as a crowd of faeries had gathered to taunt it, but I had to get to the right spot--I had to pick my battleground. I slowed to a stalking pace and flattened my back against a wall as I heard the slithering and grunting of the worm. The crunching. The faeries watching the worm--ten of them, with frosty blue skin and almond-shaped black eyes--giggled. I could only assume they'd grown bored of me and decided to watch something else die. Which was wonderful, but only if the worm was still hungry--only if it would respond to the lure I offered. The crowd murmured and grumbled. I eased around a bend, craning my neck. Too covered in its scent to smell me, the worm continued feasting, stretching its bulbous form upward as one of the faeries dangled what looked like a hairy arm. The worm gnashed its teeth, and the blue faeries cackled as they dropped the arm into its waiting mouth. I recoiled around the bend and raised the bone-sword I'd made. I reminded myself of the path I'd taken, of the turns I'd counted. Still, my heart lodged in my throat as I drew the jagged edge of the bone across my palm, splitting open my flesh. Blood welled, bright and shining as rubies. I let it build before clenching my hand into a fist. The worm would smell that soon enough. It was only then that I realized the crowd had gone silent. Almost dropping the bone, I leaned around the bend again to see the worm. It was gone. The blue faeries grinned at me. Then, shattering the silence like a shooting star, a voice--Lucien's--bellowed across the chamber. "TO YOUR LEFT!" I bolted, getting a few feet before the wall behind me exploded, mud spraying as the worm burst through, a mass of shredding teeth just inches away. I was already running, so fast that the trenches were a blur of reddish brown. I needed a bit of distance or else it'd fall right on top of me. But I also needed it close, so it couldn't check itself, so it was in a frenzy of hunger. I took the first sharp turn, and grabbed onto the bone-rail I'?d embedded in the corner wall. I used it to swing around, not breaking my speed, propelling me faster, giving me a few more seconds on the worm. Then a left. My breath was a flame ravaging my throat. The second hairpin turn came upon me, and I again used the bit of bone to hurtle around the bend. My knees and ankles groaned as I fought to keep from slipping in the mud. Only one more turn, then a straight run ... I flipped around the final turn, and the roar of the faeries became different than it had been earlier. The worm was a raging, crashing force behind me, but my steps were steady as I flew down the last passage. The mouth of the pit loomed, and with a final prayer, I leaped. There was only open black air, reaching up to swallow me. I swung my arms as I careened down, aiming for the spot I'd planned. Pain barked through my bones, my head, as I collided with the muddy ground and rolled. I flipped over myself and screamed as something hit my arm, biting through flesh. But I didn't have time to think, to even look at it, as I scrambled out of the way, as far into the darkness of the worm's den as I could get. I grabbed another bone and whirled when the worm plummeted into the pit. It hit the earth and lashed its massive body to the side, anticipating the strike to kill me, but a wet, crunching noise filled the air instead. And the worm didn't move. I squatted there, gulping down burning air, staring into the abyss of its flesh-shredding mouth, still open wide to devour me. It took me a few heartbeats to realize the worm wasn't going to swallow me whole, and a few more heartbeats to understand that it was truly impaled on the bone spikes. Dead. I didn't entirely hear the gasps, then the cheering--didn't quite think or feel very much of anything as I edged around the worm and slowly climbed out of the pit, still holding the bone-sword in my hand. Silently, still beyond words, I stumbled back through the labyrinth, my left arm throbbing, but my body tingled so much I didn't notice. But the moment I beheld Amarantha on her platform at the edge of the trench, I clenched my free hand. Prove my love. Pain shot through my arm, but I embraced it. I had won. I looked up at her from beneath lowered brows and didn't check myself as I exposed my teeth. Her lips were thin, and she no longer grasped Tamlin's knee. Tamlin. My Tamlin. I tightened my grip on the long bone in my hand. I was shaking--shaking all over. But not with fear. Oh, no. It wasn't fear at all. I'd proved my love--and then some. "Well," Amarantha said with a little smirk. "I suppose anyone could have done that." I took a few running steps and hurled the bone at her with all my remaining strength. It embedded itself in the mud at her feet, splattering filth onto her white gown, and remained there, quivering. The faeries gasped again, and Amarantha stared at the wobbling bone before touching the mud on her bodice. She smiled slowly. "Naughty," she tsked. Had there not been an insurmountable trench between us, I would have ripped her throat out. Someday--if I lived through this--I would skin her alive. "I suppose you'll be happy to learn most of my court lost a good deal of money tonight," she said, picking up a piece of parchment. I looked at Tamlin as she scanned the paper. His green eyes were bright, and though his face was deathly pale, I could have sworn there was a ghost of triumph on his face. "Let's see," Amarantha went on, reading the paper as she toyed with Jurian's finger bone at the end of her necklace. "Yes, I'd say almost my entire court bet on you dying within the first minute; some said you'd last five, and"--she turned over the paper--"and just one person said you would win." Insulting, but not surprising. I didn't fight as the Attor hauled me out of the trenches, dumping me at the foot of the platform before flying off. My arm burned at the impact. Amarantha frowned at her list, and she waved a hand. "Take her away. I tire of her mundane face." She clenched the arms of her throne hard enough that the whites of her knuckles showed. "Rhysand, come here." I didn't stay long enough to see the High Lord prowl forward. Red hands grabbed me, holding tightly to keep from sliding off. I'd forgotten the mud caked on me like a second skin. As they yanked me away, a shooting pain shot along my arm, and agony blanketed my senses. I looked at my left forearm then, and my stomach rose at the trickling blood and ripped tendons, at the lips of my skin pulled back to accommodate the shaft of a bone shard protruding clean through it. I couldn't even glance back at Tamlin, couldn't find Lucien to say thank you before pain consumed me whole, and I could barely manage to walk back to my cell. <|title|>Chapter 37 <|startofchapter|>No one, not even Lucien, came to fix my arm in the days following my victory. The pain overwhelmed me to the point of screaming whenever I prodded the embedded bit of bone, and I had no other option but to sit there, letting the wound gnaw on my strength, trying my best not to think about the constant throbbing that shot sparks of poisoned lightning through me. But worse than that was the growing panic--panic that the wound hadn't stopped bleeding. I knew what it meant when blood continued to flow. I kept one eye on the wound, either out of hope that I'd find the blood clotting, or the terror that I'd spy the first signs of infection. I couldn't eat the rotten food they gave me. The sight of it aroused such nausea that a corner of my cell now reeked of vomit. It didn't help that I was still covered in mud, and the dungeon was perpetually freezing. I was sitting against the far wall of my cell, savoring the coolness of the stone beneath my back. I'd awoken from a fitful sleep and found myself burning hot. A kind of fire that made everything a bit muddled. My injured arm dangled at my side as I gazed dully at the cell door. It seemed to sway, its lines rippling. This heat in my face was some kind of small cold--not a fever from infection. I put a hand on my chest, and dried mud crumbled into my lap. Each of my breaths was like swallowing broken glass. Not a fever. Not a fever. Not a fever. My eyelids were heavy, stinging. I couldn't go to sleep. I had to make sure the wound wasn't infected, I had to... to... The door actually did move then--no, not the door, but rather the darkness around it, which seemed to ripple. Real fear coiled in my stomach as a male figure formed out of that darkness, as if he'd slipped in from the cracks between the door and the wall, hardly more than a shadow. Rhysand was fully corporeal now, and his violet eyes glowed in the dim light. He slowly smiled from where he stood by the door. "What a sorry state for Tamlin's champion." "Go to Hell," I snapped, but the words were little more than a wheeze. My head was light and heavy all at once. If I tried to stand, I would topple over. He stalked closer with that feline grace and dropped into an easy crouch before me. He sniffed, grimacing at the corner splattered with my vomit. I tried to bring my feet into a position more inclined for scrambling away or kicking him in the face, but they were full of lead. Rhysand cocked his head. His pale skin seemed to radiate alabaster light. I blinked away the haze, but couldn't even turn aside my face as his cold fingers grazed my brow. "What would Tamlin say," he murmured, "if he knew his beloved was rotting away down here, burning up with fever? Not that he can even come here, not when his every move is watched." I kept my arm hidden in the shadows. The last thing I needed them to know was how weak I was. "Get away," I said, and my eyes stung as the words burned my throat. I had difficulty swallowing. He raised an eyebrow. "I come here to offer you help, and you have the nerve to tell me to leave?" "Get away," I repeated. My eyes were so sore that it hurt to keep them open. "You made me a lot of money, you know. I figured I would repay the favor." I leaned my head against the wall. Everything was spinning--spinning like a top, spinning like ... I kept my nausea down. "Let me see your arm," he said too quietly. I kept my arm in the shadows--if only because it was too heavy to lift. "Let me see it." A growl rippled from him. Without waiting for my reaction, he grabbed my elbow and forced my arm into the dim light of the cell. I bit my lip to keep from crying out--bit it hard enough to draw blood as rivers of fire exploded inside me, as my head swam, and all my senses narrowed down to the piece of bone sticking through my arm. They couldn't know--couldn't know how bad it was, because then they would use it against me. Rhysand examined the wound, a smile appearing on his sensuous lips. "Oh, that's wonderfully gruesome." I swore at him, and he chuckled. "Such words from a lady." "Get out," I wheezed. My frail voice was as terrifying as the wound. "Don't you want me to heal your arm?" His fingers tightened around my elbow. "At what cost?" I shot back, but kept my head against the stone, needing its damp strength. "Ah, that. Living among faeries has taught you some of our ways." I focused on the feeling of my good hand on my knee--focused on the dry mud beneath my fingernails. "I'll make a trade with you," he said casually, and gently set my arm down. As it met with the floor, I had to close my eyes to brace against the flow of that poisoned lightning. "I'll heal your arm in exchange for you. For two weeks every month, two weeks of my choosing, you'll live with me at the Night Court. Starting after this messy three-trials business." My eyes flew open. "No." I'd already made one fool's bargain. "No?" He braced his hands on his knees and leaned closer. "Really?" Everything was starting to dance. "Get out," I breathed. "You'd turn down my offer--and for what?" I didn't reply, so he went on. "You must be holding out for one of your friends--for Lucien, correct? After all, he healed you before, didn't he? Oh, don't look so innocent. The Attor and his cronies broke your nose. So unless you have some kind of magic you're not telling us about, I don't think human bones heal that quickly." His eyes sparkled, and he stood, pacing a bit. "The way I see things, Feyre, you have two options. The first, and the smartest, would be to accept my offer." I spat at his feet, but he kept pacing, only giving me a disapproving look. "The second option--and the one only a fool would take--would be for you to refuse my offer and place your life, and thus Tamlin's, in the hands of chance." He stopped pacing and stared hard at me. Though the world spun and danced in my vision, something primal inside me went still and cold beneath that gaze. "Let's say I walk out of here. Perhaps Lucien will come to your aid within five minutes of my leaving. Perhaps he'll come in five days. Perhaps he won't come at all. Between you and me, he's been keeping a low profile after his rather embarrassing outburst at your trial. Amarantha's not exactly pleased with him. Tamlin even broke his delightful brooding to beg for him to be spared--such a noble warrior, your High Lord. She listened, of course --but only after she made Tamlin bestow Lucien's punishment. Twenty lashes." I started shaking, sick all over again to think about what it had to have been like for my High Lord to be the one to punish his friend. Rhysand shrugged, a beautiful, easy gesture. "So, it's really a question of how much you're willing to trust Lucien--and how much you're willing to risk for it. Already you're wondering if that fever of yours is the first sign of infection. Perhaps they're unconnected, perhaps not. Maybe it's fine. Maybe that worm's mud isn't full of festering filth. And maybe Amarantha will send a healer, and by that time, you'll either be dead, or they'll find your arm so infected that you'll be lucky to keep anything above the elbow." My stomach tightened into a painful ball. "I don't need to invade your thoughts to know these things. I already know what you've slowly been realizing." He again crouched in front of me. "You're dying." My eyes stung, and I sucked my lips into my mouth. "How much are you willing to risk on the hope that another form of help will come?" I stared at him, sending as much hate as I could into my gaze. He'd been the one who'd caused all this. He'd told Amarantha about Clare; he'd made Tamlin beg. "Well?" I bared my teeth. "Go. To. Hell." Swift as lightning, he lashed out, grabbing the shard of bone in my arm and twisting. A scream shattered out of me, ravaging my aching throat. The world flashed black and white and red. I thrashed and writhed, but he kept his grip, twisting the bone a final time before releasing my arm. Panting, half sobbing as the pain reverberated through my body, I found him smirking at me again. I spat in his face. He only laughed as he stood, wiping his cheek with the dark sleeve of his tunic. "This is the last time I'll extend my assistance," he said, pausing by the cell door. "Once I leave this cell, my offer is dead." I spat again, and he shook his head. "I bet you'll be spitting on Death's face when she comes to claim you, too." He began to ripple with darkness, his edges blurring into endless night. He could be bluffing, trying to trick me into accepting his offer. Or he might be right-- I might be dying. My life depended on it. More than my life depended on my choice. And if Lucien was indeed unable to come ... or if he came too late ... I was dying. I'd known it for some time now. And Lucien had underestimated my abilities in the past--had never quite grasped my limitations as a human. He'd sent me to hunt the Suriel with a few knives and a bow. He'd even admitted to hesitating that day, when I had screamed for help. And he might not even know how bad off I was. Might not understand the gravity of an infection like this. He might come a day, an hour, a minute too late. Rhysand's moon-white skin began to darken into nothing but shadow. "Wait." The darkness consuming him paused. For Tamlin ... for Tamlin, I would sell my soul; I would give up everything I had for him to be free. "Wait," I repeated. The darkness vanished, leaving Rhysand in his solid form as he grinned. "Yes?" I raised my chin as high as I could manage. "Just two weeks?" "Just two weeks," he purred, and knelt before me. "Two teensy, tiny weeks with me every month is all I ask." "Why? And what are to ... to be the terms?" I said, fighting past the dizziness. "Ah," he said, adjusting the lapel of his obsidian tunic. "If I told you those things, there'd be no fun in it, would there?" I looked at my ruined arm. Lucien might never come, might decide I wasn't worth risking his life any further, not now that he'd been punished for it. And if Amarantha's healers cut off my arm ... Nesta would have done the same for me, for Elain. And Tamlin had done so much for me, for my family; even if he had lied about the Treaty, about sparing me from its terms, he'd still saved my life that day against the naga, and saved it again by sending me away from the manor. I couldn't think entirely of the enormity of what I was about to give--or else I might refuse again. I met Rhysand's gaze. "Five days." "You're going to bargain?" Rhysand laughed under his breath. "Ten days." I held his stare with all my strength. "A week." Rhysand was silent for a long moment, his eyes traveling across my body and my face before he murmured: "A week it is." "Then it's a deal," I said. A metallic taste filled my mouth as magic stirred between us. His smile became a bit wild, and before I could brace myself, he grabbed my arm. There was a blinding, quick pain, and my scream sounded in my ears as bone and flesh were shattered, blood rushed out of me, and then-- Rhysand was still grinning when I opened my eyes. I hadn't any idea how long I'd been unconscious, but my fever was gone, and my head was clear as I sat up. In fact, the mud was gone, too; I felt as if I'd just bathed. But then I lifted my left arm. "What have you done to me?" Rhysand stood, running a hand through his short, dark hair. "It's custom in my court for bargains to be permanently marked upon flesh." I rubbed my left forearm and hand, the entirety of which was now covered in swirls and whorls of black ink. Even my fingers weren't spared, and a large eye was tattooed in the center of my palm. It was feline, and its slitted pupil stared right back at me. "Make it go away," I said, and he laughed. "You humans are truly grateful creatures, aren't you?" From a distance, the tattoo looked like an elbow-length lace glove, but when I held it close to my face, I could detect the intricate depictions of flowers and curves that flowed throughout to make up a larger pattern. Permanent. Forever. "You didn't tell me this would happen." "You didn't ask. So how am I to blame?" He walked to the door but lingered, even as pure night wafted off his shoulders. "Unless this lack of gratitude and appreciation is because you fear a certain High Lord's reaction." Tamlin. I could already see his face going pale, his lips becoming thin as the claws came out. I could almost hear the growl he'd emit when he asked me what I had been thinking. "I think I'll wait to tell him until the moment's right, though," Rhysand said. The gleam in his eyes told me enough. Rhysand hadn't done any of this to save me, but rather to hurt Tamlin. And I'd fallen into his trap--fallen into it worse than the worm had fallen into mine. "Rest up, Feyre," Rhysand said. He turned into nothing more than living shadow and vanished through a crack in the door. <|title|>Chapter 38 <|startofchapter|>I tried not to look at my left arm as I scrubbed at the floors of the hallway. The ink-- which, in the light, was actually a blue so dark it appeared black--was a cloud upon my thoughts, and those were bleak enough even without knowing I'd sold myself to Rhysand. I couldn't look at the eye on my palm. I had an absurd, creeping feeling that it watched me. I dunked the large brush into the bucket the red-skinned guards had thrown into my arms. I could barely comprehend them through their mouths full of long yellow teeth, but when they gave me the brush and bucket and shoved me into a long hallway of white marble, I understood. "If it's not washed and shining by supper," one of them had said, its teeth clicking as it grinned, "we're to tie you to the spit and give you a few good turns over the fire." With that, they left. I had no idea when supper was, and so I frantically began washing. My back already ached like fire, and I hadn't been scrubbing the marble hall for more than thirty minutes. But the water they'd given me was filthy, and the more I scrubbed the floor, the dirtier it became. When I went to the door to ask for a bucket of clean water, I found it locked. There would be no help. An impossible task--a task to torment me. The spit--perhaps that was the source of the constant screaming in the dungeons. Would a few turns on the spit melt all the flesh from me, or just burn me badly enough to force me into another bargain with Rhysand? I cursed as I scrubbed harder, the coarse bristles of the brush crinkling and whispering against the tiles. A rainbow of brown was left in their wake, and I growled as I dunked the brush again. Filthy water came out with it, dripping all over the floor. A trail of brown muck grew with each sweep. Breathing quickly, I hurled the brush to the ground and covered my face with my wet hands. I lowered my left hand when I realized the eye was pressed against my cheek. I gulped down steadying gasps of air. There had to be a rational way to do this; there had to be some old wives' trick. The spit--tied to a spit like a roast pig. I grabbed the brush from where it had bounced away and scrubbed at the floor until my hands throbbed. It looked like someone had spilled mud all over the place. The dirt was actually turning into mud the harder I scrubbed it. I'd probably wail and beg for mercy when they rotated me on that spit. There had been red lines covering Clare's naked body --what instrument of torture had they come from? My hands trembled, and I set down the brush. I could take down a giant worm, but washing a floor--that was the impossible task. A door clicked open somewhere down the hall, and I shot to my feet. An auburn head peered at me. I sagged with relief. Lucien-- Not Lucien. The face that turned toward me was female--and unmasked. She looked perhaps a bit older than Amarantha, but her porcelain skin was exquisitely colored, graced with the faintest blush of rose along her cheeks. Had the red hair not been indication enough, when her russet eyes met mine, I knew who she was. I bowed my head to the Lady of the Autumn Court, and she inclined her chin slightly. I supposed that was honor enough. "For giving her your name in place of my son's life," she said, her voice as sweet as sun-warmed apples. She must have been in the crowd that day. She pointed at the bucket with a long, slender hand. "My debt is paid." She disappeared through the door she'd opened, and I could have sworn I smelled roasting chestnuts and crackling fires in her wake. It was only after the door shut that I realized I should have thanked her, and only after I looked in my bucket that I realized I'd been hiding my left arm behind my back. I knelt beside the bucket and dipped my fingers into the water. They came out clean. I shuddered, allowing myself a moment to slump over my knees before I dumped some of the water onto the floor and watched it wash away the muck. To the chagrin of the guards, I had completed their impossible task. But the next day, they smiled at me as they shoved me into a massive, dark bedroom, lit only by a few candles, and pointed to the looming fireplace. "Servant spilled lentils in the ash," one of the guards grunted, tossing me a wooden bucket. "Clean it up before the occupant returns, or he'll peel off your skin in strips." A slammed door, the click of a lock, and I was alone. Sorting lentils from ash and embers--ridiculous, wasteful, and-- I approached the darkened fireplace and cringed. Impossible. I cast a glance about the bedroom. No windows, no exits save the one I'd just been chucked through. The bed was enormous and neatly made, its black sheets of--of silk. There was nothing else in the room beyond basic furniture; not even discarded clothes or books or weapons. As if its occupant never slept here. I knelt before the fireplace and calmed my breathing. I had keen eyes, I reminded myself. I could spot rabbits hiding in the underbrush and track most things that wanted to remain unseen. Spotting the lentils couldn't be that hard. Sighing, I crawled farther into the fireplace and began. I was wrong. Two hours later, my eyes were burning and aching, and even though I combed through every inch of that fireplace, there were always more lentils, more and more that I'd somehow not spotted. The guards had never said when the owner of this room would return, and so every tick of the clock on the mantel became a death knell, every footstep outside the door causing me to reach for the iron poker leaning against the hearth wall. Amarantha had never said anything about not fighting back--never specified that I wasn't allowed to defend myself. At least I'd go down swinging. I picked through the ashes again and again. My hands were now black and stained, my clothes covered in soot. Surely there couldn't be any more; surely-- The lock clicked, and I lunged for the poker as I shot to my feet, my back to the hearth and the iron rod hidden behind me. Darkness entered the room, guttering the candles with a snow-kissed breeze. I gripped the poker harder, pressing against the stone of the fireplace, even as that darkness settled on the bed and took a familiar form. "As wonderful as it is to see you, Feyre, darling," Rhysand said, sprawled on the bed, his head propped up by a hand, "do I want to know why you're digging through my fireplace?" I bent my knees slightly, preparing to run, to duck, to do anything to get to the door that felt far, far away. "They said I had to clean out lentils from the ashes, or you'd rip off my skin." "Did they now." A feline smile. "Do I have you to thank for this idea?" I hissed. He wasn't allowed to kill me, not with my bargain with Amarantha, but ... there were other ways to hurt me. "Oh, no," he drawled. "No one's learned of our little bargain yet--and you've managed to keep it quiet. Shame riding you a bit hard?" I clenched my jaw and pointed to the fireplace with one hand, still keeping the poker tucked behind me. "Is this clean enough for you?" "Why were there lentils in my fireplace to begin with?" I gave him a flat look. "One of your mistress's household chores, I suppose." "Hm," he said, examining his nails. "Apparently she or her cronies think I'll find some sport with you." My mouth dried up. "Or it's a test for you," I managed to get out. "You said you bet on me during my first task. She didn't seem pleased about it." "And what could Amarantha possibly have to test me about?" I didn't balk from that violet stare. Amarantha's whore, Lucien had once called him. "You lied to her. About Clare. You knew very well what I looked like." Rhysand sat up in a fluid movement and braced his forearms on his thighs. Such grace contained in such a powerful form. I was slaughtering on the battlefield before you were even born, he'd once said to Lucien. I didn't doubt it. "Amarantha plays her games," he said simply, "and I play mine. It gets rather boring down here, day after day." "She let you out for Fire Night. And you somehow got out to put that head in the garden." "She asked me to put that head in the garden. And as for Fire Night ..." He looked me up and down. "I had my reasons to be out then. Do not think, Feyre, that it did not cost me." He smiled again, and it didn't meet his eyes. "Are you going to put down that poker, or can I expect you to start swinging soon?" I swallowed my curse and brought it out--but didn't put it down. "A valiant effort, but useless," he said. True--so true, when he didn't even need to take his hands out of his pockets to grip Lucien's mind. "How is it that you have such power still and the others don't? I thought she robbed all of you of your abilities." He lifted a groomed, dark brow. "Oh, she took my powers. This ..." A caress of talons against my mind. I jerked back a step, slamming into the fireplace. The pressure on my mind vanished. "This is just the remnant. The scraps I get to play with. Your Tamlin has brute strength and shape-shifting; my arsenal is a far deadlier assortment." I knew he wasn't bluffing--not when I'd felt those talons in my mind. "So you can't shape-shift? It's not some High Lord specialty?" "Oh, all the High Lords can. Each of us has a beast roaming beneath our skin, roaring to get out. While your Tamlin prefers fur, I find wings and talons to be more entertaining." A lick of cold kissed down my spine. "Can you shift now, or did she take that, too?" "So many questions from a little human." But the darkness that hovered around him began to writhe and twist and flare as he rose to his feet. I blinked, and it was done. I lifted the iron poker, just a little bit. "Not a full shift, you see," Rhysand said, clicking the black razor-sharp talons that had replaced his fingers. Below the knee, darkness stained his skin--but talons also gleamed in lieu of toes. "I don't particularly like yielding wholly to my baser side." Indeed, it was still Rhysand's face, his powerful male body, but flaring out behind him were massive black membranous wings--like a bat's, like the Attor's. He tucked them in neatly behind him, but the single claw at the apex of each peeked over his broad shoulders. Horrific, stunning--the face of a thousand nightmares and dreams. That again- useless part of me stirred at the sight, the way the candlelight shone through the wings, illuminating the veins, the way it bounced off his talons. Rhysand rolled his neck, and it all vanished in a flash--the wings, the talons, the feet, leaving only the male behind, well-dressed and unruffled. "No attempts at flattery?" I had made a very, very big mistake in offering my life to him. But I said, "You have a high-enough opinion of yourself already. I doubt the flattery of a little human matters much to you." He let out a low laugh that slid along my bones, warming my blood. "I can't decide whether I should consider you admirable or very stupid for being so bold with a High Lord." Only around him did I have trouble keeping my mouth shut, it seemed. So I dared to ask, "Do you know the answer to the riddle?" He crossed his arms. "Cheating, are you?" "She never said I couldn't ask for help." "Ah, but after she had you beaten to hell, she ordered us not to help you." I waited. But he shook his head. "Even if I felt like helping you, I couldn't. She gives the order, and we all bow to it." He picked a fleck of dust off his black jacket. "It's a good thing she likes me, isn't it?" I opened my mouth to press him--to beg him. If it meant instantaneous freedom-- "Don't waste your breath," he said. "I can't tell you--no one here can. If she ordered us all to stop breathing, we would have to obey that, too." He frowned at me and snapped his fingers. The soot, the dirt, the ash vanished off my skin, leaving me as clean as if I'd bathed. "There. A gift--for having the balls to even ask." I gave him a flat stare, but he motioned to the hearth. It was spotless--and my bucket was filled with lentils. The door swung open of its own accord, revealing the guards who'd dragged me here. Rhysand waved a lazy hand at them. "She accomplished her task. Take her back." They grabbed for me, but he bared his teeth in a smile that was anything but friendly-- and they halted. "No more household chores, no more tasks," he said, his voice an erotic caress. Their yellow eyes went glazed and dull, their sharp teeth gleaming as their mouths slackened. "Tell the others, too. Stay out of her cell, and don't touch her. If you do, you're to take your own daggers and gut yourselves. Understood?" Dazed, numb nods, then they blinked and straightened. I hid my trembling. Glamour, mind control--whatever it was he had done, it worked. They beckoned--but didn't dare touch me. Rhysand smiled at me. "You're welcome," he purred as I walked out. <|title|>Chapter 39 <|startofchapter|>From that point on, each morning and evening, a fresh, hot meal appeared in my cell. I gobbled it down but cursed Rhysand's name anyway. Stuck in the cell, I had nothing to do but ponder Amarantha's riddle--usually only to wind up with a pounding headache. I recited it again and again and again, but to no avail. Days passed, and I didn't see Lucien or Tamlin, and Rhysand never came to taunt me. I was alone--utterly alone, locked in silence--though the screaming in the dungeons still continued day and night. When that screaming became too unbearable and I couldn't shut it out, I would look at the eye tattooed on my palm. I wondered if he'd done it to quietly remind me of Jurian--a cruel, petty slap to the face indicating that perhaps I was well on my way to belonging to him just as the ancient warrior now belonged to Amarantha. Every once in a while, I'd say a few words to the tattoo--then curse myself for a fool. Or curse Rhysand. But I could have sworn that as I dozed off one night, it blinked. If I was counting the schedule of my meals correctly, about four days after I'd seen Rhysand in his room, two High Fae females arrived in my cell. They appeared through the cracks from slivers of darkness, just as Rhysand had. But while he'd solidified into a tangible form, these faeries remained mostly made of shadow, their features barely discernable, save for their loose, flowing cobweb gowns. They remained silent when they reached for me. I didn't fight them--there was nothing to fight them with, and nowhere to run. The hands they clasped around my forearms were cool but solid--as if the shadows were a coating, a second skin. They had to have been sent by Rhysand--some servants of his from the Night Court. They could have been mutes for all they said to me as they pressed close to my body and we stepped--physically stepped--through the closed door, as if it wasn't even there. As if I had become a shadow, too. My knees buckled at the sensation, like spiders crawling down my spine, my arms, as we walked through the dark, shrieking dungeons. None of the guards stopped us--they didn't even look in our direction. We were glamoured, then; no more than flickering darkness to the passing eye. The faeries brought me up through dusty stairwells and down forgotten halls until we reached a nondescript room where they stripped me naked, bathed me roughly, and then-- to my horror--began to paint my body. Their brushes were unbearably cold and ticklish, and their shadowy grips were firm when I wriggled. Things only worsened when they painted more intimate parts of me, and it was an effort to keep from kicking one of them in the face. They offered no explanation for why--no hint of whether this was another torment sent by Amarantha. Even if I fled, there was nowhere to escape to--not without damning Tamlin further. So I stopped demanding answers, stopped fighting back, and let them finish. From the neck up, I was regal: my face was adorned with cosmetics--rouge on my lips, a smearing of gold dust on my eyelids, kohl lining my eyes--and my hair was coiled around a small golden diadem imbedded with lapis lazuli. But from the neck down, I was a heathen god's plaything. They had continued the pattern of the tattoo on my arm, and once the blue-black paint had dried, they placed on me a gauzy white dress. If you could call it a dress. It was little more than two long shafts of gossamer, just wide enough to cover my breasts, pinned at each shoulder with gold brooches. The sections flowed down to a jeweled belt slung low across my hips, where they joined into a single piece of fabric that hung between my legs and to the floor. It barely covered me, and from the cold air on my skin, I knew that most of my backside was left exposed. The cold breeze caressing my bare skin was enough to kindle my rage. The two High Fae ignored my demands to be clothed in something else, their impossibly shadowed faces veiled from me, but held my arms firm when I tried to rip the shift off. "I wouldn't do that," a deep, lilting voice said from the doorway. Rhysand was leaning against the wall, his arms crossed over his chest. I should have known it was his doing, should have known from the matching designs all over my body. "Our bargain hasn't started yet," I snapped. The instincts that had once told me to be quiet around Tam and Lucien utterly failed me when Rhysand was near. "Ah, but I need an escort for the party." His violet eyes glittered with stars. "And when I thought of you squatting in that cell all night, alone ..." He waved a hand, and the faerie servants vanished through the door behind him. I flinched as they walked through the wood--no doubt an ability everyone in the Night Court possessed--and Rhysand chuckled. "You look just as I hoped you would." From the cobwebs of my memory, I recalled similar words Tamlin had once whispered into my ear. "Is this necessary?" I said, gesturing to the paint and clothing. "Of course," he said coolly. "How else would I know if anyone touches you?" He approached, and I braced myself as he ran a finger along my shoulder, smearing the paint. As soon as his finger left my skin, the paint fixed itself, returning the design to its original form. "The dress itself won't mar it, and neither will your movements," he said, his face close to mine. His teeth were far too near to my throat. "And I'll remember precisely where my hands have been. But if anyone else touches you--let's say a certain High Lord who enjoys springtime--I'll know." He flicked my nose. "And, Feyre," he added, his voice a caressing murmur, "I don't like my belongings tampered with." Ice wrapped around my stomach. He owned me for a week every month. Apparently, he thought that extended to the rest of my life, too. "Come," Rhysand said, beckoning with a hand. "We're already late." We walked through the halls. The sounds of merriment rose ahead of us, and my face burned as I silently bemoaned the too-sheer fabric of my dress. Beneath it, my breasts were visible to everyone, the paint hardly leaving anything to the imagination, and the cold cave air raised goose bumps on my skin. With my legs, sides, and most of my stomach exposed save for the slender shafts of fabric, I had to clench my teeth to keep them from chattering. My bare feet were half-frozen, and I hoped that wherever we were going would have a giant fire. Queer, off-kilter music brayed through two stone doors that I immediately recognized. The throne room. No. No, anyplace but here. Faeries and High Fae gawked as we passed through the entrance. Some bowed to Rhysand, while others gaped. I spied several of Lucien's older brothers gathered just inside the doors. The smiles they gave me were nothing short of vulpine. Rhysand didn't touch me, but he walked close enough for it to be obvious that I was with him--that I belonged to him. I wouldn't have been surprised if he'd attached a collar and leash around my neck. Maybe he would at some point, now that I was bound to him, the bargain marked on my flesh. Whispers snaked under the shouts of celebrating, and even the music quieted as the crowd parted and made a path for us to Amarantha's dais. I lifted my chin, the weight of the crown digging into my skull. I'd beaten her first task. I'd beaten her menial chores. I could keep my head high. Tamlin was seated beside her on that same throne, in his usual clothing, no weapons sheathed anywhere on him. Rhysand had said that he wanted to tell him at the right moment, that he'd wanted to hurt Tamlin by revealing the bargain I'd made. Prick. Scheming, wretched prick. "Merry Midsummer," Rhysand said, bowing to Amarantha. She wore a rich gown of lavender and orchid-purple--surprisingly modest. I was a savage before her cultivated beauty. "What have you done with my captive?" she said, but her smile didn't reach her eyes. Tamlin's face was like stone--like stone, save for the white-knuckled grip on the arms of his throne. No claws. He was able to keep that sign of his temper at bay, at least. I'd done such a foolish thing in binding myself to Rhysand. Rhysand, with the wings and talons lurking beneath that beautiful, flawless surface; Rhysand, who could shatter minds. I did it for you, I wanted to shout. "We made a bargain," Rhysand said. I flinched as he brushed a stray lock of my hair from my face. He ran his fingers down my cheek--a gentle caress. The throne room was all too quiet as he spoke his next words to Tamlin. "One week with me at the Night Court every month in exchange for my healing services after her first task." He raised my left arm to reveal the tattoo, whose ink didn't shine as much as the paint on my body. "For the rest of her life," he added casually, but his eyes were now upon Amarantha. The Faerie Queen straightened a little bit--even Jurian's eye seemed fixed on me, on Rhysand. For the rest of my life--he said it as if it were going to be a long, long while. He thought I was going to beat her tasks. I stared at his profile, at the elegant nose and sensuous lips. Games--Rhysand liked to play games, and it seemed I was now to be a key player in whatever this one was. "Enjoy my party" was Amarantha's only reply as she toyed with the bone at the end of her necklace. Dismissed, Rhysand put a hand on my back to steer us away, to turn me from Tamlin, who still gripped the throne. The crowd kept a good distance, and I couldn't acknowledge any of them, out of fear I might have to look at Tamlin again, or might spy Lucien--glimpse the expression on his face when he beheld me. I kept my chin up. I wouldn't let the others notice that weakness--wouldn't let them know how much it killed me to be so exposed to them, to have Rhysand's symbols painted over nearly every inch of my skin, to have Tamlin see me so debased. Rhysand stopped before a table laden with exquisite foods. The High Fae around it quickly cleared away. If there were any other members of the Night Court present, they didn't ripple with darkness the way Rhysand and his servants did; didn't dare approach him. The music grew loud enough to suggest there was probably dancing somewhere in the room. "Wine?" he said, offering me a goblet. Alis's first rule. I shook my head. He smiled, and extended the goblet again. "Drink. You'll need it." Drink, my mind echoed, and my fingers stirred, moving toward the goblet. No. No, Alis said not to drink the wine here--wine that was different from that joyous, freeing solstice wine. "No," I said, and some faeries who were watching us from a safe distance chuckled. "Drink," he said, and my traitorous fingers latched onto the goblet. I awoke in my cell, still clad in that handkerchief he called a dress. Everything was spinning so badly that I barely made it to the corner before I vomited. Again. And again. When I'd emptied my stomach, I crawled to the opposite corner of the cell and collapsed. Sleep came fitfully as the world continued to twirl violently around me. I was tied to a spinning wheel, going around and around and around-- Needless to say, I was sick a fair amount that day. I'd just finished picking at the hot dinner that had appeared moments before when the door creaked and a golden fox-face appeared--along with a narrowed metal eye. "Shit," said Lucien. "It's freezing in here." It was, but I was too nauseated to notice. Keeping my head up was an effort, let alone keeping the food down. He unclasped his cloak and set it around my shoulders. Its heavy warmth leaked into me. "Look at all this," he said, staring at the paint on me. Thankfully, it was all intact, save for a few places on my waist. "Bastard." "What happened?" I got out, even though I wasn't sure I truly wanted the answer. My memory was a dark blur of wild music. Lucien drew back. "I don't think you want to know." I studied the few smudges on my waist, marks that looked like hands had held me. "Who did that to me?" I asked quietly, my eyes tracing the arc of the spoiled paint. "Who do you think?" My heart clenched and I looked at the floor. "Did--did Tamlin see it?" Lucien nodded. "Rhys was only doing it to get a rise out of him." "Did it work?" I still couldn't look Lucien in the face. I knew, at least, that I hadn't been violated beyond touching my sides. The paint told me that much. "No," Lucien said, and I smiled grimly. "What--what was I doing the whole time?" So much for Alis's warning. Lucien let out a sharp breath, running a hand through his red hair. "He had you dance for him for most of the night. And when you weren't dancing, you were sitting in his lap." "What kind of dancing?" I pushed. "Not the kind you were doing with Tamlin on Solstice," Lucien said, and my face heated. From the murkiness of my memories of last night, I recalled the closeness of a certain pair of violet eyes--eyes that sparkled with mischief as they beheld me. "In front of everyone?" "Yes," Lucien replied--more gently than I'd heard him speak to me before. I stiffened. I didn't want his pity. He sighed and grabbed my left arm, examining the tattoo. "What were you thinking? Didn't you know I'd come as soon as I could?" I yanked my arm from him. "I was dying! I had a fever--I was barely able to keep conscious! How was I supposed to know you'd come? That you even understood how quickly humans can die of that sort of thing? You told me you hesitated that time with the naga." "I swore an oath to Tamlin--" "I had no other choice! You think I'm going to trust you after everything you said to me at the manor?" "I risked my neck for you during your task. Was that not enough?" His metal eye whirred softly. "You offered up your name for me--after all that I said to you, all I did, you still offered up your name. Didn't you realize I would help you after that? Oath or no oath?" I hadn't realized it would mean anything to him at all. "I had no other choice," I said again, breathing hard. "Don't you understand what Rhys is?" "I do!" I barked, then sighed. "I do," I repeated, and glared at the eye in my palm. "It's done with. So you needn't hold to whatever oath you swore to Tamlin to protect me--or feel like you owe me anything for saving you from Amarantha. I would have done it just to wipe the smirk off your brothers' faces." Lucien clicked his tongue, but his remaining russet eye shone. "I'm glad to see you didn't sell your lively human spirit or stubbornness to Rhys." "Just a week of my life every month." "Yes, well--we'll see about that when the time comes," he growled, that metal eye flicking to the door. He stood. "I should go. The rotation's about to shift." He made it a step before I said, "I'm sorry--that she still punished you for helping me during my task. I heard--" My throat tightened. "I heard what she made Tamlin do to you." He shrugged, but I added, "Thank you. For helping me, I mean." He walked to the door, and for the first time I noticed how stiffly he moved. "It's why I couldn't come sooner," he said, his throat bobbing. "She used her--used our powers to keep my back from healing. I haven't been able to move until today." Breathing became a little difficult. "Here," I said, removing his cloak and standing to hand it to him. The sudden cold sent gooseflesh rippling over me. "Keep it. I swiped it off a dozing guard on my way in here." In the dim light, the embroidered symbol of a sleeping dragon glimmered. Amarantha's coat of arms. I grimaced, but shrugged it on. "Besides," Lucien added with a smirk, "I've seen enough of you through that gown to last a lifetime." I flushed as he opened the door. "Wait," I said. "Is--is Tamlin all right? I mean ... I mean that spell Amarantha has him under to make him so silent ..." "There's no spell. Hasn't it occurred to you that Tamlin is keeping quiet to avoid telling Amarantha which form of your torment affects him most?" No, it hadn't. "He's playing a dangerous game, though," Lucien said, slipping out the door. "We all are." The next night, I was again washed, painted, and brought to that miserable throne room. Not a ball this time--just some evening entertainment. Which, it turned out, was me. After I drank the wine, though, I was mercifully unaware of what was happening. Night after night, I was dressed in the same way and made to accompany Rhysand to the throne room. Thus I became Rhysand's plaything, the harlot of Amarantha's whore. I woke with vague shards of memories--of dancing between Rhysand's legs as he sat in a chair and laughed; of his hands, stained blue from the places they touched on my waist, my arms, but somehow, never more than that. He had me dance until I was sick, and once I was done retching, told me to begin dancing again. I awoke ill and exhausted each morning, and though Rhysand's order to the guards had indeed held, the nightly activities left me thoroughly drained. I spent my days sleeping off the faerie wine, dozing to escape the humiliation I endured. When I could, I contemplated Amarantha's riddle, turning over every word--to no avail. And when I again entered that throne room, I was allowed only a glimpse of Tamlin before the drug of the wine took hold. But every time, every night, just for that one glance, I didn't hide the love and pain that welled in my eyes when they met his. I had finished being painted and dressed--my gossamer gown a shade of blood orange that night--when Rhysand entered the room. The shadow maids, as usual, walked through the walls and vanished. But rather than beckon me to come with him, Rhysand closed the door. "Your second trial is tomorrow night," he said neutrally. The gold-and-silver thread in his black tunic shone in the candlelight. He never wore another color. It was like a stone to the head. I'd lost count of the days. "So?" "It could be your last," he said, and leaned against the door frame, crossing his arms. "If you're taunting me into playing another game of yours, you're wasting your breath." "Aren't you going to beg me to give you a night with your beloved?" "I'll have that night, and all the ones after, when I beat her final task." Rhysand shrugged, then flashed a grin as he pushed off the door and stepped toward me. "I wonder if you were this prickly with Tamlin when you were his captive." "He never treated me like a captive--or a slave." "No--and how could he? Not with the shame of his father and brothers' brutality always weighing on him, the poor, noble beast. But perhaps if he'd bothered to learn a thing or two about cruelty, about what it means to be a true High Lord, it would have kept the Spring Court from falling." "Your court fell, too." Sadness flickered in those violet eyes. I wouldn't have noticed it had I not ... felt it-- deep inside me. My gaze drifted to the eye etched in my palm. What manner of tattoo, exactly, had he given me? But instead I asked, "When you were roaming freely on Fire Night--at the Rite--you said it cost you. Were you one of the High Lords that sold allegiance to Amarantha in exchange for not being forced to live down here?" Whatever sadness had been in his eyes vanished--only cold, glittering calm remained. I could have sworn a shadow of mighty wings stained the wall behind him. "What I do or have done for my Court is none of your concern." "And what has she been doing for the past forty-nine years? Holding court and torturing everyone as she pleases? To what end?" Tell me about the threat she poses to the human world, I wanted to beg--tell me what all of this means, why so many awful things had to happen. "The Lady of the Mountain needs no excuses for her actions." "But--" "The festivities await." He gestured to the door behind him. I knew I was on dangerous ground, but I didn't care. "What do you want with me? Beyond taunting Tamlin." "Taunting him is my greatest pleasure," he said with a mock bow. "And as for your question, why does any male need a reason to enjoy the presence of a female?" "You saved my life." "And through your life, I saved Tamlin's." "Why?" He winked, smoothing his blue-black hair. "That, Feyre, is the real question, isn't it?" With that, he led me from the room. We reached the throne room, and I braced myself to be drugged and disgraced again. But it was Rhysand the crowd looked at--Rhysand whom Lucien's brothers monitored. Amarantha's clear voice rang out over the music, summoning him. He paused, glancing at Lucien's brothers stalking toward us, their attention pinned on me. Eager, hungry--wicked. I opened my mouth, not too proud to ask Rhysand not to leave me alone with them while he dealt with Amarantha, but he put a hand on my back and nudged me along. "Just stay close, and keep your mouth shut," he murmured in my ear as he led me by the arm. The crowd parted as if we were on fire, revealing all too soon what was before us. Not us, I amended, but Rhysand. A brown-skinned High Fae male was sobbing on the floor before the dais. Amarantha was smiling at him like a snake--so intently that she didn't even spare me a glance. Beside her, Tamlin remained utterly impassive. A beast without claws. Rhysand flicked his eyes to me--a silent command to stay at the edge of the crowd. I obeyed, and when I lifted my attention to Tamlin, waiting for him to look--just look at me --he did not, his focus wholly on the queen, on the male before her. Point taken. Amarantha caressed her ring, watching every movement that Rhysand made as he approached. "The summer lordling," she said of the male cowering at her feet, "tried to escape through the exit to the Spring Court lands. I want to know why." There was a tall, handsome High Fae male standing at the crowd's edge--his hair near- white, eyes of crushing, crystal blue, his skin of richest mahogany. But his mouth was drawn as his attention darted between Amarantha and Rhysand. I'd seen him before, during that first task--the High Lord of the Summer Court. Before, he'd been shining-- almost leaking golden light; now he was muted, drab. As if Amarantha had leeched every last drop of power from him while she interrogated his subject. Rhysand slid his hands into his pockets and sauntered closer to the male on the ground. The Summer faerie cringed, his face shining with tears. My own bowels turned watery with fear and shame as he wet himself at the sight of Rhysand. "P-p-please," he gasped out. The crowd was breathless, too silent. His back to me, Rhysand's shoulders were loose, not a stitch of clothing out of place. But I knew his talons had latched onto the faerie's mind the moment the male stopped shaking on the ground. The High Lord of Summer had gone still, too--and it was pain, real pain, and fear that shone in those stunning blue eyes. Summer was one of the courts that had rebelled, I remembered. So this was a new, untested High Lord, who had not yet had to make choices that cost him lives. After a moment of silence, Rhysand looked at Amarantha. "He wanted to escape. To get to the Spring Court, cross the wall, and flee south into human territory. He had no accomplices, no motive beyond his own pathetic cowardice." He jerked his chin toward the puddle of piss beneath the male. But out of the corner of my eye I saw the Summer High Lord sag a bit--enough to make me wonder ... wonder what sort of choice Rhys had made in that moment he'd taken to search the male's mind. But Amarantha rolled her eyes and slouched in her throne. "Shatter him, Rhysand." She flicked a hand at the High Lord of the Summer Court. "You may do what you want with the body afterward." The High Lord of the Summer Court bowed--as if he'd been given a gift--and looked to his subject, who had gone still and calm on the floor, hugging his knees. The male faerie was ready--telieved. Rhys slipped a hand out of his pocket, and it dangled at his side. I could have sworn phantom talons flickered there as his fingers curled slightly. "I'm growing bored, Rhysand," Amarantha said with a sigh, again fiddling with that bone. She hadn't looked at me once, too focused on her current prey. Rhysand's fingers curled into a fist. The faerie male's eyes went wide--then glazed as he slumped to the side in the puddle of his own waste. Blood leaked from his nose, from his ears, pooling on the floor. That fast--that easily, that irrevocably ... he was dead. "I said shatter his mind, not his brain," Amarantha snapped. The crowd murmured around me, stirring. I wanted nothing more than to fade back into it--to crawl back into my cell and burn this from my mind. Tamlin hadn't flinched--not a muscle. What horrors had he witnessed in his long life if this hadn't broken that distant expression, that control? Rhysand shrugged, his hand sliding back into his pocket. "Apologies, my queen." He turned away without being dismissed, and didn't look at me as he strode for the back of the throne room. I fell into step beside him, reining in my trembling, trying not to think about the body sprawled behind us, or about Clare--still nailed to the wall. The crowd stayed far, far back as we walked through it. "Whore," some of them softly hissed at him, out of her earshot; "Amarantha's whore." But many offered tentative, appreciative smiles and words--"Good that you killed him; good that you killed the traitor." Rhysand didn't deign to acknowledge any of them, his shoulders still loose, his footsteps unhurried. I wondered whether anyone but he and the High Lord of the Summer Court knew that the killing had been a mercy. I was willing to bet that there had been others involved in that escape plan, perhaps even the High Lord of the Summer Court himself. But maybe keeping those secrets had only been done in aid of whatever games Rhysand liked to play. Maybe sparing that faerie male by killing him swiftly, rather than shattering his mind and leaving him a drooling husk, had been another calculated move, too. He didn't pause once on that long trek across the throne room, but when we reached the food and wine at the back of the room, he handed me a goblet and downed one alongside me. He didn't say anything before the wine swept me into oblivion. <|title|>Chapter 40 <|startofchapter|>My second task arrived. Its teeth gleaming, the Attor grinned at me as I stood before Amarantha. Another cavern--smaller than the throne room, but large enough to perhaps be some sort of old entertaining space. It had no decorations, save for its gilded walls, and no furniture; the queen herself only sat on a carved wooden chair, Tamlin standing behind her. I didn't gaze too long at the Attor, who lingered on the other side of the queen's chair, its long, slender tail slashing across the floor. It only smiled to unnerve me. It was working. Not even gazing at Tamlin could calm me. I clenched my hands at my sides as Amarantha smiled. "Well, Feyre, your second trial has come." She sounded so smug--so certain that my death hovered nearby. I'd been a fool to refuse death in the teeth of the worm. She crossed her arms and propped her chin on a hand. Within the ring, Jurian's eye turned--turned to face me, its pupil dilating in the dim light. "Have you solved my riddle yet?" I didn't deign to make a response. "Too bad," she said with a moue. "But I'm feeling generous tonight." The Attor chuckled, and several faeries behind me gave hissing laughs that snaked their way up my spine. "How about a little practice?" Amarantha said, and I forced my face into neutrality. If Tamlin was playing indifferent to keep us both safe, so would I. But I dared a glance at my High Lord, and found his eyes hard upon me. If I could just hold him, feel his skin for just a moment--smell him, hear him say my name ... A slight hiss echoed across the room, dragging my gaze away. Amarantha was frowning up at Tamlin from her seat. I hadn't realized we'd been staring at each other, the cavern wholly silent. "Begin," Amarantha snapped. Before I could brace myself, the floor shuddered. My knees wobbled, and I swung my arms to keep upright as the stones beneath me began sinking, lowering me into a large, rectangular pit. Some faeries cackled, but I found Tamlin's stare again and held it until I was lowered so far down that his face disappeared beyond the edge. I scanned the four walls around me, looking for a door, for any sign of what was to come. Three of the walls were made of a single sheet of smooth, shining stone--too polished and flat to climb. The other wall wasn't a wall at all, but an iron grate splitting the chamber in two, and through it-- My breath caught in my throat. "Lucien." Lucien lay chained to the center of the floor on the other side of the chamber, his remaining russet eye so wide that it was surrounded with white. The metal one spun as if set wild; his brutal scar was stark against his pale skin. Again he was to be Amarantha's toy to torment. There were no doors, no way for me to get to his side except to climb over the gate between us. It had such thick, wide holes that I could probably climb it to jump onto his side. I didn't dare. The faeries began murmuring, and gold clinked. Had Rhysand bet on me again? In the crowd, red hair gleamed--four heads of red hair--and I stiffened my spine. I knew his brothers would be smiling at Lucien's predicament--but where was his mother? His father? Surely the High Lord of the Autumn Court would be present. I scanned the crowd. No sign of them. Only Amarantha, standing with Tamlin at the edge of the pit, peering in. She bowed her head to me and gestured with an elegant hand to the wall beneath her feet. "Here, Feyre darling, you shall find your task. Simply answer the question by selecting the correct lever, and you'll win. Select the wrong one to your doom. As there are only three options, I think I gave you an unfair advantage." She snapped her fingers, and something metallic groaned. "That is," she added, "if you can solve the puzzle in time." Not too high above, the two giant, spike-encrusted grates I'd dismissed as chandeliers began lowering, slowly descending toward the chamber-- I whirled to Lucien. That was the reason for the gate cleaving the chamber in two--so I would have to watch as he splattered beneath, just as I myself was squashed. The spikes, which had been supporting candles and torches, glowed red--and even from a distance, I could see the heat rippling off them. Lucien wrenched at his chains. This would not be a clean death. And then I turned to the wall that Amarantha had gestured to. A lengthy inscription was carved into its smooth surface, and beneath it were three stone levers with the numbers I, II, and III engraved above them. I began to shake. I recognized only basic words--useless ones like the and but and went. Everything else was a blur of letters I didn't know, letters I'd have to slowly sound out or research to understand. The spiked grate was still descending, now level with Amarantha's head, and would soon shut off any chance I stood of getting out of this pit. The heat from the glowing iron already smothered me, sweat starting to bead at my temples. Who had told her I couldn't read? "Something wrong?" She raised an eyebrow. I snapped my attention to the inscription, keeping my breathing as steady as I could. She hadn't mentioned reading as an issue--she would have mocked me more if she'd known about my illiteracy. Fate--a cruel, vicious twist of fate. The chains rattled and strained, and Lucien cursed as he beheld what was before me. I turned to him, but when I saw his face, I knew he was too far to be able to read it aloud to me, even with his enhanced metal eye. If I could hear the question, I might stand a chance at solving it--but riddles weren't my strong point. I was going to be skewered by burning-hot spikes and then crushed on the ground like a grape. The grate now passed over the lip of the pit, filling it entirely--no corner was safe. If I didn't answer the question before the grate passed the levers-- My throat closed up, and I read and read and read, but no words came. The air became thick and stank of metal--not magic but burning, unforgiving steel creeping toward me, inch by inch. "Answer it!" Lucien shouted, his voice hitched. My eyes stung. The world was just a blur of letters, mocking me with their turns and shapes. The metal groaned as it scraped against the smooth stone of the chamber, and the faeries' whispers grew more frenzied. Through the holes in the grate, I thought I saw Lucien's eldest brother chuckle. Hot--so unbearably hot. It would hurt--those spikes were large and blunt. It wouldn't be quick. It would take some force to pierce through my body. Sweat slid down my neck, my back as I stared at the letters, at the I, II, and III that had somehow become my lifeline. Two choices would doom me--one choice would stop the grate. I found numbers in the inscription--it must be a riddle, a logic problem, a maze of words worse than any worm's labyrinth. "Feyre!" Lucien cried, panting as he stared at the ever-lowering spikes. The gleeful faces of the High Fae and lesser faeries sneered at me above the grate. Three ... grass ... grasshope ... grasshoppers ... The gate wouldn't stop, and there wasn't a full body length between my head and the first of those spikes. I could have sworn the heat devoured the air in the pit. ... were... boo... bow... boon... king ... sing ... bouncing ... I should say my good-byes to Tamlin. Right now. This was what my life amounted to-- these were my last moments, this was it, the final breaths of my body, the last beatings of my heart. "Just pick one!" Lucien shouted, and some of those in the crowd laughed--his brothers no doubt the loudest. I reached a hand toward the levers and stared at the three numbers beyond my trembling, tattooed fingers. I, I, HI. They meant nothing to me beyond life and death. Chance might save me, but-- Two. Two was a lucky number, because that was like Tamlin and me--just two people. One had to be bad, because one was like Amarantha, or the Attor--solitary beings. One was a nasty number, and three was too much--it was three sisters crammed into a tiny cottage, hating each other until they choked on it, until it poisoned them. Two. It was two. I could gladly, willingly, fanatically believe in a Cauldron and Fate if they would take care of me. I believed in two. Two. I reached for the second lever, but a blinding pain racked my hand before I could touch the stone. I hissed, withdrawing. I opened my palm to reveal the slitted eye tattooed there. It narrowed. I had to be hallucinating. The grate was about to cover the inscription, barely six feet above my head. I couldn't breathe, couldn't think. The heat was too much, and metal sizzled, so close to my ears. I again reached for the middle lever, but the pain paralyzed my fingers. The eye had returned to its usual state. I extended my hand toward the first lever. Again, pain. I reached for the third lever. No pain. My fingers met with stone, and I looked up to find the grate not four feet from my head. Through it, I found a star-flecked violet gaze. I reached for the first lever. Pain. But when I reached for the third lever ... Rhysand's face remained a mask of boredom. Sweat slipped down my brow, stinging my eyes. I could only trust him; I could only give myself up again, forced to concede by my helplessness. The spikes were so enormous up close. All I had to do was lift my arm above my head and I'd burn the flesh off my hands. "Feyre, please!" Lucien moaned. I shook so badly I could scarcely stand. The heat of the spikes bore down on me. The stone lever was cool in my hand. I shut my eyes, unable to look at Tamlin, bracing myself for the impact and the agony, and pulled the third lever. Silence. The pulsing heat didn't grow closer. Then--a sigh. Lucien. I opened my eyes to find my tattooed fingers white-knuckled beneath the ink as they gripped the lever. The spikes hovered not inches from my head. Unmoving--stopped. I had won--I had ... The grate groaned as it lifted toward the ceiling, cool air flooding the chamber. I gulped it down in uneven breaths. Lucien was offering up some kind of prayer, kissing the ground again and again. The floor beneath me rose, and I was forced to release the lever that had saved me as I was brought to the surface again. My knees wobbled. I couldn't read, and it had almost killed me. I hadn't even won properly. I sank to my knees, letting the platform carry me, and covered my face in my shaking hands. Tears burned just before pain seared through my left arm. I would never beat the third task. I would never free Tamlin, or his people. The pain shot through my bones again, and through my increasing hysteria, I heard words inside my head that stopped me short. Don't let her see you cry. Put your hands at your sides and stand up. I couldn't. I couldn't move. Stand. Don't give her the satisfaction of seeing you break. My knees and spine, not entirely of my own will, forced me upright, and when the ground at last stopped moving, I looked at Amarantha with tearless eyes. Good, Rhysand told me. Stare her down. No tears--wait until you're back in your cell. Amarantha's face was drawn and white, her black eyes like onyx as she beheld me. I had won, but I should be dead. I should be squashed, my blood oozing everywhere. Count to ten. Don't look at Tamlin. Just stare at her. I obeyed. It was the only thing that kept me from giving in to the sobs trapped within my chest, thundering to get out. I willed myself to meet Amarantha's gaze. It was cold and vast and full of ancient malice, but I held it. I counted to ten. Good girl. Now walk away. Turn on your heel--good. Walk toward the door. Keep your chin high. Let the crowd part. One step after another. I listened to him, let him keep me tethered to sanity as I was escorted back to my cell by the guards--who still kept their distance. Rhysand's words echoed through my mind, holding me together. But when my cell door closed, he went silent, and I dropped to the floor and wept. I wept for hours. For myself, for Tamlin, for the fact that I should be dead and had somehow survived. I cried for everything I'd lost, every injury I'd ever received, every wound--physical or otherwise. I cried for that trivial part of me, once so full of color and light--now hollow and dark and empty. I couldn't stop. I couldn't breathe. I couldn't beat her. She won today, and she hadn't known it. She'd won; it was only by cheating that I'd survived. Tamlin would never be free, and I would perish in the most awful of ways. I couldn't read--I was an ignorant, human fool. My shortcomings had caught up with me, and this place would become my tomb. I would never paint again; never see the sun again. The walls closed in--the ceiling dropped. I wanted to be crushed; I wanted to be snuffed out. Everything converged, squeezing inward, sucking out air. I couldn't keep myself in my body--the walls were forcing me out of it. I was grasping for my body, but it hurt too much each time I tried to maintain the connection. All I had wanted--all I had dared want, was a life that was quiet, easy. Nothing more than that. Nothing extraordinary. But now ... now... I felt the ripple in the darkness without having to look up, and didn't flinch at the soft footsteps that approached me. I didn't bother hoping that it would be Tamlin. "Still weeping?" Rhysand. I didn't lower my hands from my face. The floor rose toward the lowering ceiling--I would soon be flattened. There was no color, no light here. "You've just beaten her second task. Tears are unnecessary." I wept harder, and he laughed. The stones reverberated as he knelt before me, and though I tried to fight him, his grip was firm as he grasped my wrists and pried my hands from my face. The walls weren't moving, and the room was open--gaping. No colors, but shades of darkness, of night. Only those star-flecked violet eyes were bright, full of color and light. He gave me a lazy smile before he leaned forward. I pulled away, but his hands were like shackles. I could do nothing as his mouth met with my cheek, and he licked away a tear. His tongue was hot against my skin, so startling that I couldn't move as he licked away another path of salt water, and then another. My body went taut and loose all at once and I burned, even as chills shuddered along my limbs. It was only when his tongue danced along the damp edges of my lashes that I jerked back. He chuckled as I scrambled for the corner of the cell. I wiped my face as I glared at him. He smirked, sitting down against a wall. "I figured that would get you to stop crying." "It was disgusting." I wiped my face again. "Was it?" He quirked an eyebrow and pointed to his palm--to the place where my tattoo would be. "Beneath all your pride and stubbornness, I could have sworn I detected something that felt differently. Interesting." "Get out." "As usual, your gratitude is overwhelming." "Do you want me to kiss your feet for what you did at the trial? Do you want me to offer another week of my life?" "Not unless you feel compelled to do so," he said, his eyes like stars. It was bad enough that my life was forfeited to this Fae lord--but to have a bond where he could now freely read my thoughts and feelings and communicate ... "Who would have thought that the self-righteous human girl couldn't read?" "Keep your damned mouth shut about it." "Me? I wouldn't dream of telling anyone. Why waste that kind of knowledge on petty gossip?" If I'd had the strength, I would have leaped on him and ripped him apart. "You're a disgusting bastard." "I'll have to ask Tamlin if this kind of flattery won his heart." He groaned as he stood, a soft, deep-throated noise that traveled along my bones. His eyes met with mine, and he smiled slowly. I exposed my teeth, almost hissing. "I'll spare you the escort duties tomorrow," he said, shrugging as he walked to the cell door. "But the night after, I expect you to be looking your finest." He gave me a grin that suggested my finest wasn't very much at all. He paused by the door, but didn't dissolve into darkness. "I've been thinking of ways to torment you when you come to my court. I'm wondering: Will assigning you to learn to read be as painful as it looked today?" He vanished into shadow before I could launch myself at him. I paced through my cell, scowling at the eye in my hand. I spat every curse I could at it, but there was no response. It took me a long while to realize that Rhysand, whether he knew it or not, had effectively kept me from shattering completely. <|title|>Chapter 41 <|startofchapter|>What followed the second trial was a series of days that I don't care to recall. A permanent darkness settled over me, and I began to look forward to the moment when Rhysand gave me that goblet of faerie wine and I could lose myself for a few hours. I stopped contemplating Amarantha's riddle--it was impossible. Especially for an illiterate, ignorant human. Thinking of Tamlin made everything worse. I'd beaten two of Amarantha's tasks, but I knew--knew it deep in my bones--that the third would be the one to kill me. After what had happened to her sister, what Jurian had done, she would never let me leave here alive. I couldn't entirely blame her; I doubted I would ever forget or forgive something like that being done to Nesta or Elain, no matter how many centuries had passed. But I still wasn't going to leave here alive. The future I'd dreamed of was just that: a dream. I'd grow old and withered, while he would remain young for centuries, perhaps millennia. At best, I'd have decades with him before I died. Decades. That was what I was fighting for. A flash in time for them--a drop in the pool of their eons. So I greedily drank the wine, and I stopped caring about who I was and what had once mattered to me. I stopped thinking about color, about light, about the green of Tamlin's eyes--about all those things I had still wanted to paint and now would never get to. I wasn't going to leave this mountain alive. I was walking to the dressing chamber with Rhysand's two shadow-servants, staring at nothing and thinking of even less, when a hissing noise and the flap of wings sounded from around an upcoming corner. The Attor. The faeries beside me tensed, but their chins rose slightly. I'd never become accustomed to the Attor, but I had come to accept its malignant presence. Seeing my escorts stiffen awakened a dormant dread, and my mouth turned dry as we neared the bend. Even though we were veiled and hidden by shadow, each step brought me closer to that winged demon. My feet turned leaden. Then a lower, guttural voice grunted in response to the hissing of the Attor. Nails clicked on stone, and my escorts swapped glances before they swung me into an alcove, a tapestry that hadn't been there a moment before falling over us, the shadows deepening, solidifying. I had a feeling that if someone pulled back that tapestry, they would see only darkness and stone. One of them covered my mouth with a hand, holding me tightly to her, shadows slithering down her arm and onto mine. She smelled of jasmine--I'd never noticed that before. After all these nights, I didn't even know their names. The Attor and its companion rounded the bend, still talking--their voices low. It was only when I could understand their words that I realized we weren't merely hiding. "Yes," the Attor was saying, "good. She'll be most pleased to hear that they're ready at last." "But will the High Lords contribute their forces?" the guttural voice replied. I could have sworn it snorted like a pig. They came closer and closer, unaware of us. My escorts pressed in tighter to me, so tense that I realized they were holding their breath. Handmaidens--and spies. "The High Lords will do as she tells them," the Attor gloated, and its tail slithered and slashed across the floor. "I heard talk from soldiers in Hybern that the High King is not pleased regarding this situation with the girl. Amarantha made a fool's bargain. She cost him the War the last time because of her madness with Jurian; if she turns her back on him again, he will not be so willing to forgive her. Stealing his spells and taking a territory for her own is one thing. Failure to aid in his cause a second time is another." There was a loud hiss, and I trembled as the Attor snapped its jaws at its companion. "Milady makes no bargains that are not advantageous to her. She lets them claw at hope-- but once it is shattered, they are her beautifully broken minions." They had to be passing right before the tapestry. "You had better hope so," the guttural voice replied. What manner of creature was this thing to be so unmoved by the Attor? My escort's shadowy hand clamped tighter around my mouth, and the Attor passed on. Don't trust your senses, Alis's voice echoed through my mind. The Attor had caught me once before when I thought I was safe ... "And you had better hold your tongue," the Attor warned. "Or Milady will do so for you--and her pincers are not kind." The other creature snorted that pig noise. "I am here on a condition of immunity from the king. If your lady thinks she's above the king because she rules this wretched land, she'll soon remember who can strip her powers away--without spells and potions." The Attor didn't reply--and a part of me wished for it to retort, to snap back. But it was silenced, and fear hit my stomach like a stone dropped into a pool. Whatever plans the King of Hybern had been working on for these long years--his campaign to take back the mortal world--it seemed he was no longer content to wait. Perhaps Amarantha would soon receive what she wanted: destruction of my entire realm. My blood went cold. Nesta--I trusted Nesta to get my family away, to protect them. Their voices faded, and it wasn't until a good extra minute had passed that the two females relaxed. The tapestry vanished, and we slipped back into the hall. "What was that?" I said, looking from one to the other as the shadows around us lightened--but not by much. "Who was that?" I clarified. "Trouble," they answered in unison. "Does Rhysand know?" "He will soon," one of them said. We resumed our silent walk to the dressing room. There was nothing I could do about the King of Hybern, anyway--not while trapped Under the Mountain, not when I hadn't even been able to free Tamlin, much less myself. And with Nesta prepared to flee with my family, there was no one else to warn. So day after day passed, bringing my third trial ever closer. I suppose I sank so far into myself that it took something extraordinary to pull me out again. I was watching the light dance along the damp stones of the ceiling of my cell--like moonlight on water--when a noise traveled to me, down through the stones, rippling across the floor. I was so used to the strange fiddles and drums of the faeries that when I heard the lilting melody, I thought it was another hallucination. Sometimes, if I stared at the ceiling long enough, it became the vast expanse of the starry night sky, and I became a small, unimportant thing that blew away in the wind. I looked toward the small vent in the corner of the ceiling through which the music entered my cell. The source must have been far away, for it was just a faint stirring of notes, but when I closed my eyes, I could hear it more clearly. I could ... see it. As if it were a grand painting, a living mural. There was beauty in this music--beauty and goodness. The music folded over itself like batter being poured from a bowl, one note atop another, melting together to form a whole, rising, filling me. It wasn't wild music, but there was a violence of passion in it, a swelling kind of joy and sorrow. I pulled my knees to my chest, needing to feel the sturdiness of my skin, even with the slime of the oily paint upon it. The music built a path, an ascent founded upon archways of color. I followed it, walking out of that cell, through layers of earth, up and up--into fields of cornflowers, past a canopy of trees, and into the open expanse of sky. The pulse of the music was like hands that gently pushed me onward, pulling me higher, guiding me through the clouds. I'd never seen clouds like these--in their puffy sides, I could discern faces fair and sorrowful. They faded before I could view them too clearly, and I looked into the distance to where the music summoned me. It was either a sunset or sunrise. The sun filled the clouds with magenta and purple, and its orange-gold rays blended with my path to form a band of shimmering metal. I wanted to fade into it, wanted the light of that sun to burn me away, to fill me with such joy that I would become a ray of sunshine myself. This wasn't music to dance to--it was music to worship, music to fill in the gaps of my soul, to bring me to a place where there was no pain. I didn't realize I was weeping until the wet warmth of a tear splashed upon my arm. But even then I clung to the music, gripping it like a ledge that kept me from falling. I hadn't realized how badly I didn't want to tumble into that deep dark--how much I wanted to stay here among the clouds and color and light. I let the sounds ravage me, let them lay me flat and run over my body with their drums. Up and up, building to a palace in the sky, a hall of alabaster and moonstone, where all that was lovely and kind and fantastic dwelled in peace. I wept--wept to be so close to that palace, wept from the need to be there. Everything I wanted was there--the one I loved was there-- The music was Tamlin's fingers strumming my body; it was the gold in his eyes and the twist of his smile. It was that breathy chuckle, and the way he said those three words. It was this I was fighting for, this I had sworn to save. The music rose--louder, grander, faster, from wherever it was played--a wave that peaked, shattering the gloom of my cell. A shuddering sob broke from me as the sound faded into silence. I sat there, trembling and weeping, too raw and exposed, left naked by the music and the color in my mind. When the tears had stopped but the music still echoed in my every breath, I lay on my pallet of hay, listening to my breathing. The music flittered through my memories, binding them together, making them into a quilt that wrapped around me, that warmed my bones. I looked at the eye in the center of my palm, but it only stared right back at me--unmoving. Two more days until my final trial. Just two more days, and then I would learn what the Eddies of the Cauldron had planned for me. <|title|>Chapter 42 <|startofchapter|>It was a party like any other--even if it would likely be my last. Faeries drank and lounged and danced, laughing and singing bawdy and ethereal songs. No glimmer of anticipation for what might occur tomorrow--what I stood to alter for them, for their world. Perhaps they knew I would die, too. I lurked by a wall, forgotten by the crowd, waiting for Rhysand to beckon me to drink the wine and dance or do whatever it was he wished of me. I was clothed in my typical attire, tattooed from the neck down with that blue-black paint. Tonight my gossamer gown was a Shade of sunset pink, the color too bright and feminine against the whorls of paint on my skin. Too cheery for what awaited me tomorrow. Rhysand was taking longer than usual to summon me--though it was probably because of the supple-bodied faerie perched in his lap, caressing his hair with her long greenish fingers. He'd tire of her soon. I didn't bother to look at Amarantha. I was better off pretending she wasn't there. Lucien never spoke to me in public, and Tamlin ... It had become difficult to look at him in recent days. I just wanted it done. I wanted that wine to carry me through this last night and bring me to my fate. I was so intent on anticipating Rhysand's order to serve him that I didn't notice that someone stood beside me until the heat from his body leaked onto mine. I went rigid when I smelled that rain and earthen scent, and didn't dare to turn to Tamlin. We stood side by side, staring out at the crowd, as still and unnoticeable as Statues. His fingers brushed mine, and a line of fire went through me, burning me so badly that my eyes pricked with tears. I wished--wished he wasn't touching my marred hand, that his fingers didn't have to caress the contours of that wretched tattoo. But I lived in that moment--my life became beautiful again for those few seconds when our hands grazed. I kept my face set in a mask of cold. He dropped his hand, and, as quickly as he had come, he sauntered off, weaving through the crowd. It was only when he glanced over his shoulder and inclined his head ever so slightly that I understood. My heart beat faster than it ever had during my trials, and I made myself look as bored as possible before I pushed off the wall and casually strolled after him. I took a different route, but headed toward the small door half hidden by a tapestry near which he lingered. I had only moments before Rhysand would begin looking for me, but a moment alone with Tamlin would be enough. I could scarcely breathe as I moved nearer and nearer to the door, past Amarantha's dais, past a group of giggling faeries ... Tamlin disappeared through the door as quick as lightning, and I slowed my steps to a meandering pace. These days no one really paid attention to me until I became Rhys's drugged plaything. All too quickly, the door was before me, and it swung open noiselessly to let me in. Darkness encompassed me. I saw only a flash of green and gold before the warmth of Tamlin's body slammed into me and our lips met. I couldn't kiss him deeply enough, couldn't hold him tightly enough, couldn't touch enough of him. Words weren't necessary. I tore at his shirt, needing to feel the skin beneath one last time, and I had to stifle the moan that rose up in me as he grasped my breast. I didn't want him to be gentle--because what I felt for him wasn't at all like that. What I felt was wild and hard and burning, and so he was with me. He tore his lips from mine and bit my neck--bit it as he had on Fire Night. I had to grind my teeth to keep myself from moaning and giving us away. This might be the last time I touched him, the last time we could be together. I wouldn't waste it. My fingers grappled with his belt buckle, and his mouth found mine again. Our tongues danced--not a waltz or a minuet, but a war dance, a death dance of bone drums and screaming fiddles. I wanted him--here. I hooked a leg around his middle, needing to be closer, and he ground his hips harder against me, crushing me into the icy wall. I pried the belt buckle loose, whipping the leather free, and Tamlin growled his desire in my ear--a low, probing sort of sound that made me see red and white and lightning. We both knew what tomorrow would bring. I tossed away his belt and started fumbling for his pants. Someone coughed. "Shameful," Rhysand purred, and we whirled to find him faintly illuminated by the light that broke in through the doorway. But he stood behind us--farther into the passage, rather than toward the door. He hadn't come in through the throne room. With that ability of his, he had probably walked through the walls. "Just shameful." He stalked toward us. Tamlin remained holding me. "Look at what you've done to my pet." Panting, neither of us said anything. But the air became a cold kiss upon my skin-- upon my exposed breasts. "Amarantha would be greatly aggrieved if she knew her little warrior was dallying with the human help," Rhysand went on, crossing his arms. "I wonder how she'd punish you. Or perhaps she'd stay true to habit and punish Lucien. He still has one eye to lose, after all. Maybe she'll put it in a ring, too." Ever so slowly, Tamlin removed my hands from his body and stepped out of my embrace. "I'm glad to see you're being reasonable," Rhysand said, and Tamlin bristled. "Now, be a clever High Lord and buckle your belt and fix your clothes before you go out there." Tamlin looked at me, and, to my horror, did as Rhysand instructed. My High Lord never took his eyes off my face as he straightened his tunic and hair, then retrieved and fastened his belt again. The paint on his hands and clothes--paint from me--vanished. "Enjoy the party," Rhysand crooned, pointing to the door. Tamlin's green eyes flickered as they continued to stare into mine. He softly said, "I love you." Without another glance at Rhysand, he left. I was temporarily blinded by the brightness that poured in when he opened the door and slipped out. He did not look back at me before the door snicked shut and darkness returned to the dim hall. Rhysand chuckled. "If you're that desperate for release, you should have asked me." "Pig," I snapped, covering my breasts with the folds of my gown. With a few easy steps, he crossed the distance between us and pinned my arms to the wall. My bones groaned. I could have sworn shadow-talons dug into the stones beside my head. "Do you actually intend to put yourself at my mercy, or are you truly that stupid?" His voice was composed of sensuous, bone-breaking ire. "I'm not your slave." "You're a fool, Feyre. Do you have any idea what could have happened had Amarantha found you two in here? Tamlin might refuse to be her lover, but she keeps him at her side out of the hope that she'll break him--dominate him, as she loves to do with our kind." I kept silent. "You're both fools," he murmured, his breathing uneven. "How did you not think that someone would notice you were gone? You should thank the Cauldron Lucien's delightful brothers weren't watching you." "What do you care?" I barked, and his grip tightened enough on my wrists that I knew my bones would snap with a little more pressure. "What do I care?" he breathed, wrath twisting his features. Wings--those membranous, glorious wings--flared from his back, crafted from the shadows behind him. "What do I care?" But before he could go on, his head snapped to the door, then back to my face. The wings vanished as quickly as they had appeared, and then his lips were crushing into mine. His tongue pried my mouth open, forcing himself into me, into the space where I could still taste Tamlin. I pushed and thrashed, but he held firm, his tongue sweeping over the roof of my mouth, against my teeth, claiming my mouth, claiming me-- The door was flung wide, and Amarantha's curved figure filled its space. Tamlin-- Tamlin was beside her, his eyes slightly wide, shoulders tight as Rhys's lips still crushed mine. Amarantha laughed, and a mask of stone slammed down on Tamlin's face, void of feeling, void of anything vaguely like the Tamlin I'd been tangled up with moments before. Rhys casually released me with a flick of his tongue over my bottom lip as a crowd of High Fae appeared behind Amarantha and chimed in with her laughter. Rhysand gave them a lazy, self-indulgent grin and bowed. But something sparked in the queen's eyes as she looked at Rhysand. Amarantha's whore, they'd called him. "I knew it was a matter of time," she said, putting a hand on Tamlin's arm. The other she lifted--lifted so Jurian's eye might see as she said, "You humans are all the same, aren't you." I kept my mouth shut, even as I could have died for shame, even as I ached to explain. Tamlin had to realize the truth. But I wasn't given the luxury of learning whether Tamlin understood as Amarantha clicked her tongue and turned away, taking her entourage with her. "Typical human trash with their inconstant, dull hearts," she said to herself--nothing more than a satisfied cat. Following them, Rhys grabbed my arm to drag me back into the throne room. It was only when the light hit me that I saw the smudges and smears on my paint--smudges along my breasts and stomach, and the paint that had mysteriously appeared on Rhysand's hands. "I'm tired of you for tonight," Rhys said, giving me a light shove toward the main exit. "Go back to your cell." Behind him, Amarantha and her court smiled with glee, their grins widening when they beheld the marred paint. I looked for Tamlin, but he was stalking for his usual throne on the dais, keeping his back to me. As if he couldn't stand to look. I don't know what time it was, but hours later, footsteps sounded inside my cell. I jolted into a sitting position, and Rhys stepped out of a shadow. I could still feel the heat of his lips against mine, the smooth glide of his tongue inside my mouth, even though I'd washed my mouth out three times with the bucket of water in my cell. His tunic was unbuttoned at the top, and he ran a hand through his blue-black hair before he wordlessly slumped against the wall across from me and slid to the floor. "What do you want?" I demanded. "A moment of peace and quiet," he snapped, rubbing his temples. I paused. "From what?" He massaged his pale skin, making the corners of his eyes go up and down, out and in. He sighed. "From this mess." I sat up farther on my pallet of hay. I'd never seen him so candid. "That damned bitch is running me ragged," he went on, and dropped his hands from his temples to lean his head against the wall. "You hate me. Imagine how you'd feel if I made you serve in my bedroom. I'm High Lord of the Night Court--not her harlot." So the slurs were true. And I could imagine very easily how much I would hate him-- what it would do to me--to be enslaved to someone like that. "Why are you telling me this?" The swagger and nastiness were gone. "Because I'm tired and lonely, and you're the only person I can talk to without putting myself at risk." He let out a low laugh. "How absurd: a High Lord of Prythian and a--" "You can leave if you're just going to insult me." "But I'm so good at it." He flashed one of his grins. I glared at him, but he sighed. "One wrong move tomorrow, Feyre, and we're all doomed." The thought struck a chord of such horror that I could hardly breathe. "And if you fail," he went on, more to himself than to me, "then Amarantha will rule forever." "If she captured Tamlin's power once, who's to say she can't do it again?" It was the question I hadn't yet dared voice. "He won't be tricked again so easily," he said, staring up at the ceiling. "Her biggest weapon is that she keeps our powers contained. But she can't access them, not wholly-- though she can control us through them. It's why I've never been able to shatter her mind --why she's not dead already. The moment you break Amarantha's curse, Tamlin's wrath will be so great that no force in the world will keep him from splattering her on the walls." A chill went through me. "Why do you think I'm doing this?" He waved a hand to me. "Because you're a monster." He laughed. "True, but I'm also a pragmatist. Working Tamlin into a senseless fury is the best weapon we have against her. Seeing you enter into a fool's bargain with Amarantha was one thing, but when Tamlin saw my tattoo on your arm ... Oh, you should have been born with my abilities, if only to have felt the rage that seeped from him." I didn't want to think much about his abilities. "Who's to say he won't splatter you as well?" "Perhaps he'll try--but I have a feeling he'll kill Amarantha first. That's what it all boils down to, anyway: even your servitude to me can be blamed on her. So he'! kill her tomorrow, and I'll be free before he can start a fight with me that will reduce our once- sacred mountain to rubble." He picked at his nails. "And I have a few other cards to play." I lifted my brows in silent question. "Feyre, for Cauldron's sake. I drug you, but you don't wonder why I never touch you beyond your waist or arms?" Until tonight--until that damned kiss. I gritted my teeth, but even as my anger rose, a picture cleared. "It's the only claim I have to innocence," he said, "the only thing that will make Tamlin think twice before entering into a battle with me that would cause a catastrophic loss of innocent life. It's the only way I can convince him I was on your side. Believe me, I would have liked nothing more than to enjoy you--but there are bigger things at stake than taking a human woman to my bed." I knew, but I still asked, "Like what?" "Like my territory," he said, and his eyes held a far-off look that I hadn't yet seen. "Like my remaining people, enslaved to a tyrant queen who can end their lives with a single word. Surely Tamlin expressed similar sentiments to you." He hadn't--not entirely. He hadn't been able to, thanks to the curse. "Why did Amarantha target you?" I dared ask. "Why make you her whore?" "Beyond the obvious?" He gestured to his perfect face. When I didn't smile, he loosed a breath. "My father killed Tamlin's father--and his brothers." I started. Tamlin had never said--never told me the Night Court was responsible for that. "Its a long story, and I don't feel like getting into it, but let's just say that when she stole our lands out from under us, Amarantha decided that she especially wanted to punish the son of her friend's murderer--decided that she hated me enough for my father's deeds that I was to suffer." I might have reached a hand toward him, might have offered my apologies--but every thought had dried up in my head. What Amarantha had done to him ... "So," he said wearily, "here we are, with the fate of our immortal world in the hands of an illiterate human." His laugh was unpleasant as he hung his head, cupping his forehead in a hand, and closed his eyes. "What a mess." Part of me searched for the words to wound him in his vulnerability, but the other half recalled all that he had said, all that he had done, how his head had snapped to the door before he'd kissed me. He'd known Amarantha was coming. Maybe he'd done it to make her jealous, but maybe ... If he hadn't been kissing me, if he hadn't shown up and interrupted us, I would have gone out into that throne room covered in smudged paint. And everyone--especially Amarantha--would have known what I'd been up to. It wouldn't have taken much to figure out whom I'd been with, especially not once they saw the paint on Tamlin. I didn't want to consider what the punishment might have been. Regardless of his motives or his methods, Rhysand was keeping me alive. And had done so even before I set foot Under the Mountain. "I've told you too much," he said as he got to his feet. "Perhaps I should have drugged you first. If you were clever, you'd find a way to use this against me. And if you had any stomach for cruelty, you'd go to Amarantha and tell her the truth about her whore. Perhaps she'd give you Tamlin for it." He slid his hands into the pockets of his black pants, but even as he faded into shadow, there was something in the curve of his shoulders that made me speak. "When you healed my arm ... You didn't need to bargain with me. You could have demanded every single week of the year." My brows knit together as he turned, already half-consumed by the dark. "Every single week, and I would have said yes." It wasn't entirely a question, but I needed the answer. A half smile appeared on his sensuous lips. "I know," he said, and vanished. <|title|>Chapter 43 <|startofchapter|>For my final task, I was given my old tunic and pants--stained and torn and reeking--but despite my stench, I kept my chin high as I was escorted to the throne room. The doors were flung open, and the silence of the room assaulted me. I waited for the jeers and shouts, waited to see gold flash as the onlookers placed their bets, but this time the faeries just stared at me, the masked ones especially intently. Their world rested on my shoulders, Rhys had said. But I didn't think it was worry alone that was spread across their features. I had to swallow hard as a few of them touched their fingers to their lips, then extended their hands to me--a gesture for the fallen, a farewell to the honored dead. There was nothing malicious about it. Most of these faeries belonged to the courts of the High Lords--had belonged to those courts long before Amarantha seized their lands, their lives. And if Tamlin and Rhysand were playing games to keep us alive ... I strode up the path they'd cleared--straight for Amarantha. The queen smiled when I stopped in front of her throne. Tamlin was in his usual place beside her, but I wouldn't look at him--not yet. "Two trials lie behind you," Amarantha said, picking at a fleck of dust on her blood-red gown. Her black hair shone, a gleaming darkness that threatened to swallow up her golden crown. "And only one more awaits. I wonder if it will be worse to fail now--when you are so close." She gave me a pout, and we both awaited the laughter of the faeries. But only a few laughs hissed from the red-skinned guards. Everyone else remained silent. Even Lucien's miserable brothers. Even Rhysand, wherever he was in the crowd. I blinked to clear my burning eyes. Perhaps, like Rhysand's, their oaths of allegiance and betting on my life and nastiness had been a show. And perhaps now--now that the end was imminent--they, too, would face my potential death with whatever dignity they had left. Amarantha glared at them, but when her gaze fell upon me, she smiled broadly, sweetly. "Any words to say before you die?" I came up with a plethora of curses, but I instead looked at Tamlin. He didn't react--his features were like stone. I wished that I could glimpse his face--if only for a moment. But all I needed to see were those green eyes. "I love you," I said. "No matter what she says about it, no matter if it's only with my insignificant human heart. Even when they burn my body, I'll love you." My lips trembled, and my vision clouded before several warm tears slipped down my chilled face. I didn't wipe them away. He didn't react--he didn't even grip the arms of his throne. I supposed that was his way of enduring it, even if it made my chest cave in. Even if his silence killed me. Amarantha said sweetly, "You'll be lucky, my darling, if we even have enough left of you to burn." I stared at her long and hard. But her words were not met with jeers or smiles or applause from the crowd. Only silence. It was a gift that gave me courage, that made me bunch my fists, that made me embrace the tattoo on my arm. I had beaten her until now, fairly or not, and I would not feel alone when I died. I would not die alone. It was all I could ask for. Amarantha propped her chin on a hand. "You never figured out my riddle, did you?" I didn't respond, and she smiled. "Pity. The answer is so lovely." "Get it over with," I growled. Amarantha looked at Tamlin. "No final words to her?" she said, quirking an eyebrow. When he didn't respond, she grinned at me. "Very well, then." She clapped her hands twice. A door swung open, and three figures--two male and one female--with brown sacks tied over their heads were dragged in by the guards. Their concealed faces turned this way and that as they tried to discern the whispers that rippled across the throne room. My knees bent slightly as they approached. With sharp jabs and blunt shoves, the red-skinned guards forced the three faeries to their knees at the foot of the dais, but facing me. Their bodies and clothes revealed nothing of who they were. Amarantha clapped her hands again, and three servants clad in black appeared at the side of each of the kneeling faeries. In their long, pale hands, they each carried a dark velvet pillow. And on each pillow lay a single polished wooden dagger. Not metal for a blade, but ash. Ash, because-- "Your final task, Feyre," Amarantha drawled, gesturing to the kneeling faeries. "Stab each of these unfortunate souls in the heart." I stared at her, my mouth opening and closing. "They're innocent--not that it should matter to you," she went on, "since it wasn't a concern the day you killed Tamlin's poor sentinel. And it wasn't a concern for dear Jurian when he butchered my sister. But if it's a problem ... well, you can always refuse. Of course, I'll take your life in exchange, but a bargain's a bargain, is it not? If you ask me, though, given your history with murdering our kind, I do believe I'm offering you a gift." Refuse and die. Kill three innocents and live. Three innocents, for my own future. For my own happiness. For Tamlin and his court and the freedom of an entire land. The wood of the razor-sharp daggers had been polished so expertly that it gleamed beneath the colored glass chandeliers. "Well?" she asked. She lifted her hand, letting Jurian's eye get a good look at me, at the ash daggers, and purred to it, "I wouldn't want you to miss this, old friend." I couldn't. I couldn't do it. It wasn't like hunting; it wasn't for survival or defense. It was cold-blooded murder--the murder of them, of my very soul. But for Prythian--for Tamlin, for all of them here, for Alis and her boys ... I wished I knew the name of one of our forgotten gods so that I might beg them to intercede, wished I knew any prayers at all to plead for guidance, for absolution. But I did not know those prayers, or the names of our forgotten gods--only the names of those who would remain enslaved if I did not act. I silently recited those names, even as the horror of what knelt before me began to swallow me whole. For Prythian, for Tamlin, for their world and my own ... These deaths would not be wasted--even if it would damn me forever. I stepped up to the first kneeling figure--the longest and most brutal step I'd ever taken. Three lives in exchange for Prythian's liberation--three lives that would not be spent in vain. I could do this. I could do this, even with Tamlin watching. I could make this sacrifice--sacrifice them ... I could do this. My fingers trembled, but the first dagger wound up in my hand, its hilt cool and smooth, the wood of the blade heavier than I'd expected. There were three daggers, because she wanted me to feel the agony of reaching for that knife again and again. Wanted me to mean it. "Not so fast." Amarantha chuckled, and the guards who held the first kneeling figure snatched the hood off its face. It was a handsome High Fae youth. I didn't know him, I'd never seen him, but his blue eyes were pleading. "That's better," Amarantha said, waving her hand again. "Proceed, Feyre, dear. Enjoy it." His eyes were the color of a sky I'd never see again if I refused to kill him, a color I'd never get out of my mind, never forget no matter how many times I painted it. He shook his head, those eyes growing so large that white showed all around. He would never see that sky, either. And neither would these people, if I failed. "Please," he whispered, his focus darting between the ash dagger and my face. "Please." The dagger shook between my fingers, and I clenched it tighter. Three faeries--that's all that stood between me and freedom, before Tamlin would be unleashed upon Amarantha. If he could destroy her ... Not in vain, I told myself. Not in vain. "Don't," the faerie youth begged when I lifted the dagger. "Don't!" I took a gasping breath, my lips shaking as I quailed. Saying "I'm sorry" wasn't enough. I'd never been able to say it to Andras--and now ... now .. "Please!" he said, and his eyes lined with silver. Someone in the crowd began weeping. I was taking him away from someone who possibly loved him as much as I loved Tamlin. I couldn't think about it, couldn't think about who he was, or the color of his eyes, or any of it. Amarantha was grinning with wild, triumphant glee. Kill a faerie, fall in love with a faerie, then be forced to kill a faerie to keep that love. It was brilliant and cruel, and she knew it. Darkness rippled near the throne, and then Rhysand was there, arms crossed--as if he'd moved to better see. His face was a mask of disinterest, but my hand tingled. Do it, the tingling said. "Don't," the young faerie moaned. I began shaking my head. I couldn't listen to him. I had to do it now, before he convinced me otherwise. "Please!" His voice rose to a shriek. The sound jarred me so much that I lunged. With a ragged sob, I plunged the dagger into his heart. He screamed, thrashing in the guards' grip as the blade cleaved through flesh and bone, smooth as if it were real metal and not ash, and blood--hot and slick--showered my hand. I wept, yanking out the dagger, the reverberations of his bones against the blade stinging my hand. His eyes, full of shock and hate, remained on me as he sagged, damning me, and that person in the crowd let out a keening wail. My bloody dagger clacked on the marble floor as I stumbled back several steps. "Very good," Amarantha said. I wanted to get out of my body; I had to escape the stain of what I'd done; I had to get out--I couldn't endure the blood on my hands, the sticky warmth between my fingers. "Now the next. Oh, don't look so miserable, Feyre. Aren't you having fun?" I faced the second figure, still hooded. A female this time. The faerie in black extended the pillow with the clean dagger, and the guards holding her tore off her hood. Her face was simple, and her hair was gold-brown, like mine. Tears were already rolling down her round cheeks, and her bronze eyes tracked my bloody hand as I reached for the second knife. The cleanness of the wooden blade mocked the blood on my fingers. I wanted to fall to my knees to beg her forgiveness, to tell her that her death wouldn't be for naught. Wanted to, but there was such a rift running through me now that I could hardly feel my hands, my shredded heart. What I'd done-- "Cauldron save me," she began whispering, her voice lovely and even--like music. "Mother hold me," she went on, reciting a prayer similar to one I'd heard once before, when Tamlin eased the passing of that lesser faerie who'd died in the foyer. Another of Amarantha's victims. "Guide me to you." I was unable to raise my dagger, unable to take the step that would close the distance between us. "Let me pass through the gates; let me smell that immortal land of milk and honey." Silent tears slid down my face and neck, where they dampened the filthy collar of my tunic. As she spoke, I knew I would be forever barred from that immortal land. I knew that whatever Mother she meant would never embrace me. In saving Tamlin, I was to damn myself. I couldn't do this--couldn't lift that dagger again. "Let me fear no evil," she breathed, staring at me--into me, into the soul that was cleaving itself apart. "Let me feel no pain." A sob broke from my lips. "I'm sorry," I moaned. "Let me enter eternity," she breathed. I wept as I understood. Kill me now, she was saying. Do it fast. Don't make it hurt. Kill me now. Her bronze eyes were steady, if not sorrowful. Infinitely, infinitely worse than the pleading of the dead faerie beside her. I couldn't do it. But she held my gaze--held my gaze and nodded. As I lifted the ash dagger, something inside me fractured so completely that there would be no hope of ever repairing it. No matter how many years passed, no matter how many times I might try to paint her face. More faeries wailed now--her kinsmen and friends. The dagger was a weight in my hand--my hand, shining and coated with the blood of that first faerie. It would be more honorable to refuse--to die, rather than murder innocents. But ... but "Let me enter eternity," she repeated, lifting her chin. "Fear no evil," she whispered-- just for me. "Feel no pain." I gripped her delicate, bony shoulder and drove the dagger into her heart. She gasped, and blood spilled onto the ground like a splattering of rain. Her eyes were closed when I looked at her face again. She slumped to the floor and didn't move. I went somewhere far, far away from myself. The faeries were stirring now--shifting, many whispering and weeping. I dropped the dagger, and the knock of ash on marble roared in my ears. Why was Amarantha still smiling, with only one person left between myself and freedom? I glanced at Rhysand, but his attention was fixed upon Amarantha. One faerie--and then we were free. Just one more swing of my arm. And maybe one more after that--maybe one more swing, up and inward and into my own heart. It would be a relief--a relief to end it by my own hand, a relief to die rather than face this, what I'd done. The faerie servant offered the last dagger, and I was about to reach for it when the guard removed the hood from the male kneeling before me. My hands slackened at my sides. Amber-flecked green eyes stared up at me. Everything came crashing down, layer upon layer, shattering and breaking and crumbling, as I gazed at Tamlin. I whipped my head to the throne beside Amarantha's, still occupied by my High Lord, and she laughed as she snapped her fingers. The Tamlin beside her transformed into the Attor, smiling wickedly at me. Tricked--deceived by my own senses again. Slowly, my soul ripping further from me, I turned back to Tamlin. There was only guilt and sorrow in his eyes, and I stumbled away, almost falling as I tripped over my feet. "Something wrong?" Amarantha asked, cocking her head. "Not ... Not fair," I got out. Rhysand's face had gone pale---so, so pale. "Fair?" Amarantha mused, playing with Jurian's bone on her necklace. "I wasn't aware you humans knew of the concept. You kill Tamlin, and he's free." Her smile was the most hideous thing I'd ever seen. "And then you can have him all to yourself." My mouth stopped working. "Unless," Amarantha went on, "you think it would be more appropriate to forfeit your life. After all: What's the point? To survive only to lose him?" Her words were like poison. "Imagine all those years you were going to spend together ... suddenly alone. Tragic, really. Though a few months ago, you hated our kind enough to butcher us--surely you'll move on easily enough." She patted her ring. "Jurian's human lover did." Still on his knees, Tamlin's eyes turned so bright--defiant. "So," Amarantha said, but I didn't look at her. "What will it be, Feyre?" Kill him and save his court and my life, or kill myself and let them all live as Amarantha's slaves, let her and the King of Hybern wage their final war against the human realm. There was no bargain to get out of this--no part of me to sell to avoid this choice. I stared at the ash dagger on that pillow. Alis had been right all those weeks ago: no human who came here ever walked out again. I was no exception. If I were smart, I would indeed stab my own heart before they could grab me. At least then I would die quickly--I wouldn't endure the torture that surely awaited me, possibly a fate like Jurian's. Alis had been right. But-- Alis--Alis had said something ... something to help me. A final part of the curse, a part they couldn't tell me, a part that would aid me ... And all she'd been able to do was tell me to listen. To listen to what I'd heard--as if I'd already learned everything I needed. I slowly faced Tamlin again. Memories flashed, one after another, blurs of color and words. Tamlin was High Lord of the Spring Court--what did that do to help me? The Great Rite was performed--no. He lied to me about everything--about why I'd been brought to the manor, about what was happening on his lands. The curse--he hadn't been allowed to tell me the truth, but he hadn't exactly pretended that everything was fine. No--he'd lied and explained as best he could and made it painfully obvious to me at every tum that something was very, very wrong. The Attor in the garden--as hidden from me as I was from it. But Tamlin had hidden me--he'd told me to stay put and then led the Attor right toward me, let me overhear them. He'd left the dining room doors open when he'd spoken with Lucien about--about the curse, even if I hadn't realized it at the time. He'd spoken in public places. He'd wanted me to eavesdrop. Because he wanted me to know, to listen--because this knowledge ... I ransacked each conversation, turning over words like stones. A part of the curse I hadn't grasped, that they couldn't explicitly tell me, but Tamlin had needed me to know ... Milady makes no bargains that are not advantageous to her. She would never kill what she desired most--not when she wanted Tamlin as much as I did. But if I killed him ... she either knew I couldn't do it, or she was playing a very, very dangerous game. Conversation after conversation echoed in my memory, until I heard Lucien's words, and everything froze. And that was when I knew. I couldn't breathe, not as I replayed the memory, not as I recalled the conversation I'd overheard one day. Lucien and Tamlin in the dining room, the door wide open for all to hear--for me to hear. "For someone with a heart of stone, yours is certainly soft these days." I looked at Tamlin, my eyes flicking to his chest as another memory flashed. The Attor in the garden, laughing. "Though you have a heart of stone, Tamlin," the Attor said, "you certainly keep a host of fear inside it." Amarantha would never risk me killing him--because she knew I couldn' kill him. Not if his heart couldn't be pierced by a blade. Not if his heart had been turned to stone. I scanned his face, searching for any glimmer of truth. There was only that bold rebellion within his gaze. Perhaps I was wrong--perhaps it was just a faerie turn of phrase. But all those times I'd held Tamlin ... I'd never felt his heartbeat. I'd been blind to everything until it came back to smack me in the face, but not this time. That was how she controlled him and his magic. How she controlled all the High Lords, dominating and leashing them just as she kept Jurian's soul tethered to that eye and bone. Trust no one, Alis had told me. But I trusted Tamlin--and more than that, I trusted myself. I trusted that I had heard correctly--I trusted that Tamlin had been smarter than Amarantha, I trusted that all I had sacrificed was not in vain. The entire room was silent, but my attention was upon only Tamlin. The revelation must have been clear on my face, for his breathing became a bit quicker, and he lifted his chin. I took a step toward him, then another. I was right. I had to be. I sucked in a breath as I grabbed the dagger off the outstretched pillow. I could be wrong--I could be painfully, tragically wrong. But there was a faint smile on Tamlin's lips as I stood over him, ash dagger in hand. There was such a thing as Fate--because Fate had made sure I was there to eavesdrop when they'd spoken in private, because Fate had whispered to Tamlin that the cold, contrary girl he'd dragged to his home would be the one to break his spell, because Fate had kept me alive just to get to this point, just to see if I had been listening. And there he was--my High Lord, my beloved, kneeling before me. "I love you," I said, and stabbed him. <|title|>Chapter 44 <|startofchapter|>Tamlin cried out as my blade pierced his flesh, breaking bone. For a sickening moment, when his blood rushed onto my hand, I thought the ash dagger would go clean through him. But then there was a faint thud--and a stinging reverberation in my hand as the dagger struck something hard and unyielding. Tamlin lurched forward, his face going pale, and I yanked the dagger from his chest. As the blood drained away from the polished wood, I lifted the blade. Its tip had been nicked, turned inward on itself. Tamlin clutched his chest as he panted, the wound already healing. Rhysand, at the foot of the dais, grinned from ear to ear. Amarantha climbed to her feet. The faeries murmured to one another. I dropped the blade, sending it clattering across the red marble. Kill her now, I wanted to bark at Tamlin, but he didn't move as he pushed his hand against his wound, blood dribbling out. Too slowly--he was healing too slowly. The mask didn't fall off. Kill her now. "She won," someone in the crowd said. "Free them," another echoed. But Amarantha's face blanched, her features contorting until she looked truly serpentine. "I'll free them whenever I see fit. Feyre didn't specify when I had to free them -- just that I had to. At some point. Perhaps when you're dead," she finished with a hateful smile. "You assumed that when I said instantaneous freedom regarding the riddle, it applied to the trials, too, didn't you? Foolish, stupid human." I stepped back as she descended the steps of the dais. Her fingers curled into claws-- Jurian's eye was going wild within the ring, his pupil dilating and shrinking. "And you," she hissed at me. "You." Her teeth gleamed--turning sharp. "I'm going to kill you." Someone cried out, but I couldn't move, couldn't even try to get out of the way as something far more violent than lightning struck me, and I crashed to the floor. "I'm going to make you pay for your insolence," Amarantha snarled, and a scream ravaged my throat as pain like nothing I had known erupted through me. My very bones were shattering as my body rose and then slammed onto the hard floor, and I was crushed beneath another wave of torturous agony. "Admit you don't really love him, and I'll spare you," Amarantha breathed, and through my fractured vision, I saw her prowl toward me. "Admit what a cowardly, lying, inconstant bit of human garbage you are." I wouldn't--I wouldn't say that even if she splattered me across the ground. But I was being ripped apart from the inside out, and I thrashed, unable to out-scream the pain. "Feyre!" someone roared. No, not someone--Rhysand. But Amarantha still neared. "You think you're worthy of him? A High Lord? You think you deserve anything at all, human?" My back arched, and my ribs cracked, one by one. Rhysand yelled my name again--yelled it as though he cared. I blacked out, but she brought me back, ensuring that I felt everything, ensuring that I screamed every time a bone broke. "What are you but mud and bones and worm meat?" Amarantha raged. "What are you, compared to our kind, that you think you're worthy of us?" Faeries began calling foul play, demanding Tamlin be released from the curse, calling her a cheating liar. Through the haze, I saw Rhysand crouching by Tamlin. Not to help him, but to grab the-- "You are all pigs--all scheming, filthy pigs." I sobbed between screams as her foot connected with my broken ribs. Again. And again. "Your mortal heart is nothing to us." Then Rhysand was on his feet, my bloody knife in his hands. He launched himself at Amarantha, swift as a shadow, the ash dagger aimed at her throat. She lifted a hand--not even bothering to look--and he was blasted back by a wall of white light. But the pain paused for a second, long enough for me to see him hit the ground and rise again and lunge for her--with hands that now ended in talons. He slammed into the invisible wall Amarantha had raised around herself, and my pain flickered as she turned to him. "You traitorous piece of filth," she seethed at Rhysand. "You're just as bad as these human beasts." One by one, as if a hand were shoving them in, his talons pushed back into his skin, leaving blood in their wake. He swore, low and vicious. "You were planning this all along." Her magic sent him sprawling, and it then hurled into Rhysand again--so hard that his head cracked against the stones and the knife dropped from his splayed fingers. No one made a move to help him, and she struck him once more with her power. The red marble splintered where he hit it, spiderwebbing toward me. With wave after wave she hit him. Rhys groaned. "Stop," I breathed, blood filling my mouth as I strained a hand to reach her feet. "Please." Rhys's arms buckled as he fought to rise, and blood dripped from his nose, splattering on the marble. His eyes met mine. The bond between us went taut. I flashed between my body and his, seeing myself through his eyes, bleeding and broken and sobbing. I snapped back into my own mind as Amarantha turned to me again. "Stop? Stop? Don't pretend you care, human," she crooned, and curled her finger. I arched my back, my spine straining to the point of cracking, and Rhysand bellowed my name as I lost my grip on the room. Then the memories began--a compilation of the worst moments of my life, a storybook of despair and darkness. The final page came, and I wept, not entirely feeling the agony of my body as I saw that young rabbit, bleeding out in that forest clearing, my knife through her throat. My first kill--the first life I'd taken. I'd been starving, desperate. Yet afterward, once my family had devoured it, I had crept back into the woods and wept for hours, knowing a line had been crossed, my soul stained. "Say that you don't love him!" Amarantha shrieked, and the blood on my hands became the blood of that rabbit--became the blood of what I had lost. But I wouldn't say it. Because loving Tamlin was the only thing I had left, the only thing I couldn't sacrifice. A path cleared through my red-and-black vision. I found Tamlin's eyes--wide as he crawled toward Amarantha, watching me die, and unable to save me while his wound slowly healed, while she still gripped his power. Amarantha had never intended for me to live, never intended to let him go. "Amarantha, stop this," Tamlin begged at her feet as he clutched the gaping wound in his chest. "Stop. I'm sorry--I'm sorry for what I said about Clythia all those years ago. Please." Amarantha ignored him, but I couldn't look away. Tamlin's eyes were so green--green like the meadows of his estate. A shade that washed away the memories flooding through me, that pushed aside the evil breaking me apart bone by bone. I screamed again as my kneecaps strained, threatening to crack in two, but I saw that enchanted forest, saw that afternoon we'd lain in the grass, saw that morning we'd watched the sunrise, when for a moment--just one moment--I'd known true happiness. "Say that you don't truly love him," Amarantha spat, and my body twisted, breaking bit by bit. "Admit to your inconstant heart." "Amarantha, please," Tamlin moaned, his blood spilling onto the floor. "I'll do anything." "I'll deal with you later," she snarled at him, and sent me falling into a fiery pit of pain. I would never say it--never let her hear that, even if she killed me. And if it was to be my downfall, so be it. If it would be the weakness that would break me, I would embrace it with all my heart. If this was-- For though each of my strikes lands a powerful blow, When I kill, I do it slow... That's what these three months had been--a slow, horrible death. What I felt for Tamlin was the cause of this. There was no cure--not pain, or absence, or happiness. But scorned, I become a difficult beast to defeat. She could torture me all she liked, but it would never destroy what I felt for him. It would never make Tamlin want her--never ease the sting of his rejection. The world became dark at the borders of my vision, taking the edge off the pain. But I bless all those who are brave enough to dare. For so long, I had run from it. But opening myself to him, to my sisters--that had been a test of bravery as harrowing as any of my trials. "Say it, you vile beast," Amarantha hissed. She might have lied her way out of our bargain, but she'd sworn differently with the riddle--instantaneous freedom, regardless of her will. Blood filled my mouth, warm as it dribbled out between my lips. I gazed at Tamlin's masked face one last time. "Love," I breathed, the world crumbling into a blackness with no end. A pause in Amarantha's magic. "The answer to the riddle ...," I got out, choking on my own blood, "is ... love." Tamlin's eyes went wide before something forever cracked in my spine. <|title|>Chapter 45 <|startofchapter|>I was far away but still seeing--seeing through eyes that weren't mine, eyes attached to a person who slowly rose from his position on a cracked, bloodied floor. Amarantha's face slackened. There my body was, prostrate on the ground, my head snapped to one side at a horribly wrong angle. A flash of red hair in the crowd. Lucien. Tears shone in Lucien's remaining eye as he raised his hands and removed the fox mask. The brutally scarred face beneath was still handsome--his features sharp and elegant. But my host was looking at Tamlin now, who slowly faced my dead body. Tamlin's still-masked face twisted into something truly lupine as he raised his eyes to the queen and snarled. Fangs lengthened. Amarantha backed away--away from my corpse. She only whispered "Please" before golden light exploded. The queen was blasted back, thrown against the far wall, and Tamlin let out a roar that shook the mountain as he launched himself at her. He shifted into his beast form faster than I could see--fur and claws and pound upon pound of lethal muscle. She had no sooner hit the wall than he gripped her by the neck, and the stones cracked as he shoved her against it with a clawed paw. She thrashed but could do nothing against the brutal onslaught of Tamlin's beast. Blood ran down his furred arm from where she scratched. The Attor and the guards rushed for the queen, but several faeries and High Fae, their masks clattering to the ground, jumped into their path, tackling them. Amarantha screeched, kicking at Tamlin, lashing at him with her dark magic, but a wall of gold encompassed his fur like a second skin. She couldn't touch him. "Tam!" Lucien cried over the chaos. A sword hurtled through the air, a shooting star of steel. Tamlin caught it in a massive paw. Amarantha's scream was cut short as he drove the sword through her head and into the stone beneath. And then closed his powerful jaws around her throat--and ripped it out. Silence fell. It wasn't until I was again staring down at my own broken body that I realized whose eyes I'd been seeing through. But Rhysand didn't come any closer to my corpse, not as rushing paws--then a flash of light, then footsteps--filled the air. The beast was already gone. Amarantha's blood had vanished from his face, his tunic, as Tamlin slammed to his knees. He scooped up my limp, broken body, cradling me to his chest. He hadn't removed his mask, but I saw the tears that fell onto my filthy tunic, and I heard the shuddering sobs that broke from him as he rocked me, stroking my hair. "No," someone breathed--Lucien, his sword dangling from his hand. Indeed, there were many High Fae and faeries who watched with damp eyes as Tamlin held me. I wanted to get to Tamlin. I wanted to touch him, to beg for his forgiveness for what I'd done, for the other bodies on the floor, but I was so far away. Someone appeared beside Lucien--a tall, handsome brown-haired man with a face similar to his own. Lucien didn't look at his father, though he stiffened as the High Lord of the Autumn Court approached Tamlin and extended a clenched hand to him. Tamlin glanced up only when the High Lord opened his fingers and tipped over his hand. A glittering spark fell upon me. It flared and vanished as it touched my chest. Two more figures approached--both handsome and young. Through my host's eyes, I knew them instantly. The brown-skinned one on the left wore a tunic of blue and green, and atop his white-blond head was a garland of roses--the High Lord of the Summer Court. His pale-skinned companion, clad in colors of white and gray, possessed a crown of shimmering ice. The High Lord of the Winter Court. Chins raised, shoulders back, they, too, dropped those glittering kernels upon me, and Tamlin bowed his head in gratitude. Another High Lord approached, also bestowing upon me a drop of light. He glowed brightest of them all, and from his gold-and-ruby raiment, I knew him to be High Lord of the Dawn Court. Then the High Lord of the Day Court, clad in white and gold, his dark skin gleaming with an inner light, presented his similar gift, and smiled sadly at Tamlin before he walked away. Rhysand stepped forward, bringing my shred of soul with him, and I found Tamlin staring at me--at us. "For what she gave," Rhysand said, extending a hand, "we'll bestow what our predecessors have granted to few before." He paused. "This makes us even," he added, and I felt the twinkle of his humor as he opened his hand and let the seed of light fall on me. Tamlin tenderly brushed aside my matted hair. His hand glowed bright as the rising sun, and in the center of his palm, that strange, shining bud formed. "I love you," he whispered, and kissed me as he laid his hand on my heart. <|title|>Chapter 46 <|startofchapter|>Everything was black, and warm--and thick. Inky, but bordered with gold. I was swimming, kicking for the surface, where Tamlin was waiting, where life was waiting. Up and up, frantic for air. The golden light grew, and the darkness became like sparkling wine, easier to swim through, the bubbles fizzing around me, and-- I gasped, air flooding my throat. I was lying on the cold floor. No pain--no blood, no broken bones. I blinked. A chandelier dangled above me--I'd never noticed how intricate the crystals were, how the hushed gasp of the crowd echoed off them. A crowd--meaning I was still in that throne room, meaning I ... I truly wasn't dead. Meaning I had ... I had killed those ... I had ... The room spun. I groaned as I braced my hands against the floor, readying myself to stand, but--the sight of my skin stopped me cold. It gleamed with a strange light, and my fingers seemed longer where I'd laid them flat on the marble. I pushed to my feet. I felt--felt strong, and fast and sleek. And-- And I'd become High Fae. I went rigid as I sensed Tamlin standing behind me, smelled that rain and spring meadow scent of him, richer than I'd ever noticed. I couldn't turn around to look at him-- I couldn't ... couldn't move. A High Fae--immortal. What had they done? I could hear Tamlin holding his breath--hear as he loosed it. Hear the breathing, the whispering and weeping and quiet celebrating of everyone in that hall, still watching us-- watching me--some chanting praise for the glorious power of their High Lords. "It was the only way we could save you," Tamlin said softly. But then I looked to the wall, and my hand rose to my throat. I forgot about the stunned crowd entirely. There, beneath Clare's decayed body, was Amarantha, her mouth gaping as the sword protruded from her brow. Her throat gone--and blood now soaked the front of her gown. Amarantha was dead. They were free. I was free. Tamlin was-- Amarantha was dead. And I had killed those two High Fae; I had-- I shook my head slowly. "Are you--" My voice sounded too loud in my ears as I pushed back against that wall of black that threatened to swallow me. Amarantha was dead. "See for yourself," he said. I kept my eyes on the ground as I turned. There, on the red marble, lay a golden mask, staring at me with its hollow eyeholes. "Feyre," Tamlin said, and he cupped my chin between his fingers, gently lifting my face. I saw that familiar chin first, then the mouth, and then-- He was exactly how I dreamed he would be. He smiled at me, his entire face alight with that quiet joy I had come to love so dearly, and he brushed my hair aside. I savored the feel of his fingers on my skin and raised my own to touch his face, to trace the contours of those high cheekbones and that lovely, straight nose--the clear, broad brow, the slightly arching eyebrows that framed his green eyes. What I had done to get to this moment, to be standing here ... I shoved against the thought again. In a minute, in an hour, in a day, I would think about that, force myself to face it. I put a hand on Tamlin's heart, and a steady beat echoed into my bones. I sat on the edge of a bed, and while I'd thought being an immortal meant a higher pain threshold and faster healing, I winced a good deal as Tamlin inspected my few remaining wounds, then healed them. We'd scarcely had a moment alone together in the hours that followed Amarantha's death--that followed what I had done to those two faeries. But now, in this quiet room ... I couldn't look away from the truth that sounded in my head with each breath. I'd killed them. Slaughtered them. I hadn't even seen their bodies being taken away. For it had been chaos in the throne room in the moments after I'd awakened. The Attor and the nastier faeries had disappeared instantly, along with Lucien's brothers, which was a clever move, as Lucien wasn't the only faerie with a score to settle. No sign of Rhysand, either. Some faeries had fled, while others had burst into celebration, and others just stood or paced--eyes distant, faces pale. As if they, too, didn't quite feel like this was real. One by one, crowding him, weeping and laughing with joy, the High Fae and faeries of the Spring Court knelt or embraced or kissed Tamlin, thanking him--thanking me. I kept far enough back that I would only nod, because I had no words to offer them in exchange for their gratitude, the gratitude for the faeries I'd butchered to save them. Then there had been meetings in the frenzied throne room--quick, tense meetings with the High Lords Tamlin was allied with to sort out next steps; then with Lucien and some Spring Court High Fae who introduced themselves as Tamlin's sentries. But every word, every breath was too loud, every smell too strong, the light too bright. Keeping still throughout it all was easier than moving, than adjusting to the strange, strong body that was now mine. I couldn't even touch my hair without the slight difference in my fingers jarring me. On and on, until every newly heightened sense was chafing and raw, and Tamlin at last noticed my dull eyes, my silence, and took my arm. He escorted me through the labyrinth of tunnels and hallways until we found a quiet bedroom in a distant wing of the court. "Feyre," Tamlin said now, looking up from inspecting my bare leg. I had been so accustomed to his mask that the handsome face surprised me each time I beheld it. This--this was what I had murdered those faeries for. Their deaths had not been in vain, and yet ... The blood on me had been gone when I'd awoken--as if becoming an immortal, as if surviving, somehow earned me the right to wash their blood off me. "What is it?" I said. My voice was--quiet. Hollow. I should try--try to sound more cheerful, for him, for what had just happened, but ... He gave me that half smile. Had he been human, he might have been in his late twenties. But he wasn't human--and neither was I. I wasn't certain whether that was a happy thought or not. It was one of my smallest concerns. I should be begging for his forgiveness, begging the families and friends of those faeries for their forgiveness. I should be on my knees, weeping with shame for all that I had done-- "Feyre," he said again, lowering my leg to stand between my knees. He caressed my cheek with a knuckle. "How can I ever repay you for what you did?" "You don't need to," I said. Let that be that--let that dark, dank cell fade away, and Amarantha's face forever disappear from my memory. Even if those two dead faeries-- even if their faces would never fade for me. If I could ever bring myself to paint again, I would never be able to stop seeing those faces instead of the colors and light. Tamlin held my face in his hands, leaning close, but then released me and grasped my left arm--my tattooed arm. His brows narrowed as he studied the markings. "Feyre--" "I don't want to talk about it," I mumbled. The bargain I had with Rhysand--another small concern compared to the stain on my soul, the pit inside it. But I didn't doubt I'd see Rhys again soon. Tamlin's fingers traced the marks of my tattoo. "We'll find a way out of this," he murmured, and his hand traveled up my arm to rest on my shoulder. He opened his mouth, and I knew what he would say--the subject he would try to broach. I couldn't talk about it, about them--not yet. So I breathed "Later" and hooked my feet around his legs, drawing him closer. I placed my hands on his chest, feeling the heart beating beneath. This--I needed this right now. It wouldn't wash away what I'd done, but ... I needed him near, needed to smell and taste him, remind myself that he was real--this was real. "Later," he echoed, and leaned down to kiss me. It was soft, tentative--nothing like the wild, hard kisses we'd shared in the hall of throne room. He brushed his lips against mine again. I didn't want apologies, didn't want sympathy or coddling. I gripped the front of his tunic, tugging him closer as I opened my mouth to him. He let out a low growl, and the sound of it sent a wildfire blazing through me, pooling and burning in my core. I let it burn through that hole in my chest, my soul. Let it raze through the wave of black that was starting to press around me, let it consume the phantom blood I could still feel on my hands. I gave myself to that fire, to him, as his hands roved across me, unbuttoning as he went. I pulled back, breaking the kiss to look into his face. His eyes were bright--hungry-- but his hands had stopped their exploring and rested firmly on my hips. With a predator's stillness, he waited and watched as I traced the contours of his face, as I kissed every place I touched. His ragged breathing was the only sound--and his hands soon began roaming across my back and sides, caressing and teasing and baring me to him. When my traveling fingers reached his mouth, he bit down on one, sucking it into his mouth. It didn't hurt, but the bite was hard enough for me to meet his eyes again. To realize that he was done waiting--and so was I. He eased me onto the bed, murmuring my name against my neck, the shell of my ear, the tips of my fingers. I urged him--faster, harder. His mouth explored the curve of my breast, the inside of my thigh. A kiss for each day we'd spent apart, a kiss for every wound and terror, a kiss for the ink etched into my flesh, and for all the days we would be together after this. Days, perhaps, that I no longer deserved. But I gave myself again to that fire, threw myself into it, into him, and let myself burn. I was pulled from sleep by something tugging at my middle, a thread deep inside. I left Tamlin sleeping in the bed, his body heavy with exhaustion. In a few hours, we would be leaving Under the Mountain and returning home, and I didn't want to wake him sooner than I had to. I prayed I would ever get to sleep that peacefully again. I knew who summoned me long before I opened the door to the hall and padded down it, stumbling and teetering every now and then as I adjusted to my new body, its new balance and rhythms. I carefully, slowly took a narrow set of stairs upward, up and up, until, to my shock, a trickle of sunlight poured into the stairwell and I found myself on a small balcony jutting out of the side of the mountain. I hissed against the brightness, shielding my eyes. I'd thought it was the middle of the night--I'd completely lost all sense of time in the darkness of the mountain. Rhysand chuckled softly from where I could vaguely make him out standing along the stone rail. "I forgot that it's been a while for you." My eyes stung from the light, and I remained silent until I could look at the view without a shooting pain going through my head. A land of violet snowcapped mountains greeted me, but the rock of this mountain was brown and bare--not even a blade of grass or a crystal of ice gleamed on it. I looked at him finally. His membranous wings were out--tucked behind him--but his hands and feet were normal, no talons in sight. "What do you want?" It didn't come out with the snap I'd intended. Not as I remembered how he'd fought, again and again, to attack Amarantha, to save me. "Just to say good-bye." A warm breeze ruffled his hair, brushing tendrils of darkness off his shoulders. "Before your beloved whisks you away forever." "Not forever," I said, wiggling my tattooed fingers for him to see. "Don't you get a week every month?" Those words, thankfully, came out frosty. Rhys smiled slightly, his wings rustling and then settling. "How could I forget?" I stared at the nose I'd seen bleeding only hours before, the violet eyes that had been so filled with pain. "Why?" I asked. He knew what I meant, and shrugged. "Because when the legends get written, I didn't want to be remembered for standing on the sidelines. I want my future offspring to know that I was there, and that I fought against her at the end, even if I couldn't do anything useful." I blinked, this time not at the brightness of the sun. "Because," he went on, his eyes locked with mine, "I didn't want you to fight alone. Or die alone." And for a moment, I remembered that faerie who had died in our foyer, and how I'd told Tamlin the same thing. "Thank you," I said, my throat tight. Rhys flashed a grin that didn't quite reach his eyes. "I doubt you'll be saying that when I take you to the Night Court." I didn't bother to reply as I turned toward the view. The mountains went on and on, gleaming and shadowed and vast under the open, clear sky. But nothing in me stirred--nothing cataloged the light and colors. "Are you going to fly home?" I said. A soft laugh. "Unfortunately, it would take longer than I can afford. Another day, I'll taste the skies again." I glanced at the wings tucked into his powerful body, and my voice was hoarse as I spoke. "You never told me you loved the wings--or the flying." No, he'd made his shape- shifting seem ... base, useless, boring. He shrugged. "Everything I love has always had a tendency to be taken from me. I tell very few about the wings. Or the flying." Some color had already come into that moon-white face--and I wondered whether he might once have been tan before Amarantha had kept him belowground for so long. A High Lord who loved to fly--trapped under a mountain. Shadows not of his own making still haunted those violet eyes. I wondered if they would ever fade. "How does it feel to be a High Fae?" he asked--a quiet, curious question. I looked out toward the mountains again, considering. And maybe it was because there was no one else to hear, maybe it was because the shadows in his eyes would also forever be in mine, but I said, "I'm an immortal--who has been mortal. This body ..." I looked down at my hand, so clean and shining--a mockery of what I'd done. "This body is different, but this'--I put my hand on my chest, my heart--"this is still human. Maybe it always will be. But it would have been easier to live with it ..." My throat welled. "Easier to live with what I did if my heart had changed, too. Maybe I wouldn't care so much; maybe I could convince myself their deaths weren't in vain. Maybe immortality will take that away. I can't tell whether I want it to." Rhysand stared at me for long enough that I faced him. "Be glad of your human heart, Feyre. Pity those who don't feel anything at all." I couldn't explain about the hole that had already formed in my soul--didn't want to, so I just nodded. "Well, good-bye for now," he said, rolling his neck as if we hadn't been talking about anything important at all. He bowed at the waist, those wings vanishing entirely, and had begun to fade into the nearest shadow when he went rigid. His eyes locked on mine, wide and wild, and his nostrils flared. Shock--pure shock flashed across his features at whatever he saw on my face, and he stumbled back a step. Actually stumbled. "What is--" I began. He disappeared--simply disappeared, not a shadow in sight--into the crisp air. Tamlin and I left the way I'd come in--through that narrow cave in the belly of the mountain. Before departing, the High Fae of several courts destroyed and then sealed Amarantha's court Under the Mountain. We were the last to leave, and with a wave of Tamlin's arm, the entrance to the court crumbled behind us. I still didn't have the words to ask what they'd done with those two faeries. Maybe someday, maybe soon, I would ask who they were, what their names had been. Amarantha's body, I'd heard, had been hauled off to be burned--though Jurian's bone and eye were somehow missing. As much as I wanted to hate her, as much as I wished I could have spat on her burning body ... I understood what had driven her--a very small part of her, but I understood it. Tamlin gripped my hand as we strode through the darkness. Neither of us said anything when a glimmer of sunlight appeared, staining the damp cave walls with a silvery sheen, but our steps quickened as the sunlight grew brighter and the cave warmer, and then both of us emerged onto the spring-green grass that covered the bumps and hollows of his lands. Our lands. The breeze, the scent of wildflowers hit me, and despite the hole in my chest, the stain on my soul, I couldn't stop the smile that spread as we mounted a steep hill. My faerie legs were far stronger than my human ones, and when we reached the top of the knoll, I wasn't nearly as winded as I might once have been. But the breath was knocked from my chest when I beheld the rose-covered manor. Home. In all my imaginings in Amarantha's dungeons, I'd never allowed myself to think of this moment--never allowed myself to dream that outrageously. But I'd made it--I'd brought us both home. I squeezed his hand as we gazed down at the manor, with its stables and gardens, two sets of childish laughter--true, free laughter--coming from somewhere inside its grounds. A moment later, two small, shining figures darted into the field beyond the garden, shrieking as they were chased by a taller, chuckling figure--Alis and her boys. Safe and out of hiding at last. Tamlin slipped an arm around my shoulders, tucking me close to him as he rested his cheek on my head. My lips trembled, and I wrapped my arm around his waist. We stood atop the hill in silence, until the setting sun gilded the house and the hills and the world and Lucien called us to dinner. I stepped out of Tamlin's arms and kissed him softly. Tomorrow--there would be tomorrow, and an eternity, to face what I had done, to face what I shredded into pieces inside myself while Under the Mountain. But for now ... for today ... "Let's go home," I said, and took his hand. <|startofbook|><|title|>A Court of Wings and Ruin <|startofchapter|>Rhysand Two Years Before the Wall The buzzing flies and screaming survivors had long since replaced the beating war-drums. The killing field was now a tangled sprawl of corpses, human and faerie alike, interrupted only by broken wings jutting toward the gray sky or the occasional bulk of a felled horse. With the heat, despite the heavy cloud cover, the smell would soon be unbearable. Flies already crawled along eyes gazing unblinkingly upward. They didn't differentiate between mortal and immortal flesh. I picked my way across the once-grassy plain, marking the banners half-buried in mud and gore. It took most of my lingering strength to keep my wings from dragging over corpse and armor. My own power had been depleted well before the carnage had stopped. I'd spent the final hours fighting as the mortals beside me had: with sword and fist and brute, unrelenting focus. We'd held the lines against Ravennia's legions--hour after hour, we'd held the lines, as I had been ordered to do by my father, as I knew I must do. To falter here would have been the killing blow to our already-sundering resistance. The keep looming at my back was too valuable to be yielded to the Loyalists. Not just for its location in the heart of the continent, but for the supplies it guarded. For the forges that smoldered day and night on its western side, toiling to stock our forces. The smoke of those forges now blended with the pyres already being kindled behind me as I kept walking, scanning the faces of the dead. I made a note to dispatch any soldiers who could stomach it to claim weapons from either army. We needed them too desperately to bother with honor. Especially since the other side did not bother with it at all. So still--the battlefield was so still, compared with the slaughter and chaos that had finally halted hours ago. The Loyalist army had retreated rather than surrender, leaving their dead for the crows. I edged around a fallen bay gelding, the beautiful beast's eyes still wide with terror, flies crusting his bloodied flank. The rider was twisted beneath it, the man's head partially severed. Not from a sword blow. No, those brutal gashes were claws. They wouldn't yield easily. The kingdoms and territories that wanted their human slaves would not lose this war unless they had no other choice. And even then ... We'd learned the hard way, very early on, that they had no regard for the ancient rules and rites of battle. And for the Fae territories that fought beside mortal warriors ... We were to be stomped out like vermin. I waved away a fly that buzzed in my ear, my hand caked with blood both my own and foreign. I'd always thought death would be some sort of peaceful homecoming--a sweet, sad lullaby to usher me into whatever waited afterward. I crunched down with an armored boot on the flagpole of a Loyalist standard-bearer, smearing red mud across the tusked boar embroidered on its emerald flag. I now wondered if the lullaby of death was not a lovely song, but the droning of flies. If flies and maggots were all Death's handmaidens. The battlefield stretched toward the horizon in every direction save the keep at my back. Three days, we had held them off; three days, we had fought and died here. But we'd held the lines. Again and again, I'd rallied human and faerie, had refused to let the Loyalists break through, even when they'd hammered our vulnerable right flank with fresh troops on the second day. I'd used my power until it was nothing but smoke in my veins, and then I'd used my Illyrian training until swinging my shield and sword was all I knew, all I could manage against the hordes. A half-shredded Illyrian wing jutted from a cluster of High Fae corpses, as if it had taken all six of them to bring the warrior down. As if he'd taken them all out with him. My heartbeat pounded through my battered body as I hauled away the piled corpses. Reinforcements had arrived at dawn on the third and final day, sent by my father after my plea for aid. I had been too lost in battle-rage to note who they were beyond an Illyrian unit, especially when so many had been wielding Siphons. But in the hours since they'd saved our asses and turned the tide of the battle, I had not spotted either of my brothers amongst the living. Did not know if Cassian or Azriel had even fought on the plain. The latter was unlikely, as my father kept him close for spying, but Cassian ... Cassian could have been reassigned. I wouldn't have put it past my father to shift Cassian to a unit most likely to be slaughtered. As this one had been, barely half limping off the battlefield earlier. My aching, bloodied fingers dug into dented armor and clammy, stiff flesh as I heaved away the last of the High Fae corpses piled atop the fallen Illyrian soldier. The dark hair, the golden-brown skin ... The same as Cassian's. But it was not Cassian's death-gray face that gaped at the sky. My breath whooshed from me, my lungs still raw from roaring, my lips dry and chapped. I needed water--badly. But nearby, another set of Illyrian wings poked up from the piled dead. I stumbled and lurched toward it, letting my mind drift someplace dark and quiet while I righted the twisted neck to peer at the face beneath the simple helm. Not him. I picked my way through the corpses to another Illyrian. Then another. And another. Some I knew. Some I didn't. Still the killing field stretched onward under the sky. Mile after mile. A kingdom of the rotting dead. And still I looked. <|title|>Chapter 1: Feyre <|startofchapter|>The painting was a lie. A bright, pretty lie, bursting with pale pink blooms and fat beams of sunshine. I'd begun it yesterday, an idle study of the rose garden lurking beyond the open windows of the studio. Through the tangle of thorns and satiny leaves, the brighter green of the hills rolled away into the distance. Incessant, unrelenting spring. If I'd painted this glimpse into the court the way my gut had urged me, it would have been flesh-shredding thorns, flowers that choked off the sunlight for any plants smaller than them, and rolling hills stained red. But each brushstroke on the wide canvas was calculated; each dab and swirl of blending colors meant to portray not just idyllic spring, but a sunny disposition as well. Not too happy, but gladly, finally healing from horrors I carefully divulged. I supposed that in the past weeks, I had crafted my demeanor as intricately as one of these paintings. I supposed that if I had also chosen to show myself as I truly wished, I would have been adorned with flesh-shredding talons, and hands that choked the life out of those now in my company. I would have left the gilded halls stained red. But not yet. Not yet, I told myself with every brushstroke, with every move I'd made these weeks. Swift revenge helped no one and nothing but my own, roiling rage. Even if every time I spoke to them, I heard Elain's sobbing as she was forced into the Cauldron. Even if every time I looked at them, I saw Nesta fling that finger at the King of Hybern in a death-promise. Even if every time I scented them, my nostrils were again full of the tang of Cassian's blood as it pooled on the dark stones of that bone-castle. The paintbrush snapped between my fingers. I'd cleaved it in two, the pale handle damaged beyond repair. Cursing under my breath, I glanced to the windows, the doors. This place was too full of watching eyes to risk throwing it in the rubbish bin. I cast my mind around me like a net, trawling for any others near enough to witness, to be spying. I found none. I held my hands before me, one half of the brush in each palm. For a moment, I let myself see past the glamour that concealed the tattoo on my right hand and forearm. The markings of my true heart. My true title. High Lady of the Night Court. Half a thought had the broken paintbrush going up in flames. The fire did not burn me, even as it devoured wood and brush and paint. When it was nothing but smoke and ash, I invited in a wind that swept them from my palms and out the open windows. For good measure, I summoned a breeze from the garden to snake through the room, wiping away any lingering tendril of smoke, filling it with the musty, suffocating smell of roses. Perhaps when my task here was done, I'd burn this manor to the ground, too. Starting with those roses. Two approaching presences tapped against the back of my mind, and I snatched up another brush, dipping it in the closest swirl of paint, and lowered the invisible, dark snares I'd erected around this room to alert me of any visitors. I was working on the way the sunlight illuminated the delicate veins in a rose petal, trying not to think of how I'd once seen it do the same to Illyrian wings, when the doors opened. I made a good show of appearing lost in my work, hunching my shoulders a bit, angling my head. And made an even better show of slowly looking over my shoulder, as if the struggle to part myself from the painting was a true effort. But the battle was the smile I forced to my mouth. To my eyes--the real tell of a smile's genuine nature. I'd practiced in the mirror. Over and over. So my eyes easily crinkled as I gave a subdued yet happy smile to Tamlin. To Lucien. "Sorry to interrupt," Tamlin said, scanning my face for any sign of the shadows I remembered to occasionally fall prey to, the ones I wielded to keep him at bay when the sun sank beyond those foothills. "But I thought you might want to get ready for the meeting." I made myself swallow. Lower the paintbrush. No more than the nervous, unsure girl I'd been long ago. "Is--you talked it over with Ianthe? She's truly coming?" I hadn't seen her yet. The High Priestess who had betrayed my sisters to Hybern, betrayed us to Hybern. And even if Rhysand's murky, swift reports through the mating bond had soothed some of my dread and terror ... She was responsible for it. What had happened weeks ago. It was Lucien who answered, studying my painting as if it held the proof I knew he was searching for. "Yes. She ... had her reasons. She is willing to explain them to you." Perhaps along with her reasons for laying her hands on whatever males she pleased, whether they wished her to or not. For doing it to Rhys, and Lucien. I wondered what Lucien truly made of it. And the fact that the collateral in her friendship with Hybern had wound up being his mate. Elain. We had not spoken of Elain save for once, the day after I'd returned. Despite what Jurian implied regarding how my sisters will be treated by Rhysand, I had told him, despite what the Night Court is like, they wont hurt Elain or Nesta like that--not yet. Rhysand has more creative ways to harm them. Lucien still seemed to doubt it. But then again, I had also implied, in my own "gaps" of memory, that perhaps I had not received the same creativity or courtesy. That they believed it so easily, that they thought Rhysand would ever force someone ... I added the insult to the long, long list of things to repay them for. I set down the brush and pulled off the paint-flecked smock, carefully laying it on the stool I'd been perched on for two hours now. "I'll go change," I murmured, flicking my loose braid over a shoulder. Tamlin nodded, monitoring my every movement as I neared them. "The painting looks beautiful." "It's nowhere near done," I said, dredging up that girl who had shunned praise and compliments, who had wanted to go unnoticed. "It's still a mess." Frankly, it was some of my best work, even if its soullessness was only apparent to me. "I think we all are," Tamlin offered with a tentative smile. I reined in the urge to roll my eyes, and returned his smile, brushing my hand over his shoulder as I passed. Lucien was waiting outside my new bedroom when I emerged ten minutes later. It had taken me two days to stop going to the old one--to turn right at the top of the stairs and not left. But there was nothing in that old bedroom. I'd looked into it once, the day after I returned. Shattered furniture; shredded bedding; clothes strewn about as if he'd gone looking for me inside the armoire. No one, it seemed, had been allowed in to clean. But it was the vines--the thorns--that had made it unlivable. My old bedroom had been overrun with them. They'd curved and slithered over the walls, entwined themselves amongst the debris. As if they'd crawled off the trellises beneath my windows, as if a hundred years had passed and not months. That bedroom was now a tomb. I gathered the soft pink skirts of my gauzy dress in a hand and shut the bedroom door behind me. Lucien remained leaning against the door across from mine. His room. I didn't doubt he'd ensured I now stayed across from him. Didn't doubt that the metal eye he possessed was always turned toward my own chambers, even while he slept. "I'm surprised you're so calm, given your promises in Hybern," Lucien said by way of greeting. The promise I'd made to kill the human queens, the King of Hybern, Jurian, and Ianthe for what they'd done to my sisters. To my friends. "You yourself said IJanthe had her reasons. Furious as I might be, I can hear her out." I had not told Lucien of what I knew regarding her true nature. It would mean explaining that Rhys had thrown her out of his own home, that Rhys had done it to defend himself and the members of his court, and it would raise too many questions, undermine too many carefully crafted lies that had kept him and his court--my court--safe. Though I wondered if, after Velaris, it was even necessary. Our enemies knew of the city, knew it was a place of good and peace. And had tried to destroy it at the first opportunity. The guilt for the attack on Velaris after Rhys had revealed it to those human queens would haunt my mate for the rest of our immortal lives. "She's going to spin a story that you'll want to hear," Lucien warned. I shrugged, heading down the carpeted, empty hall. "I can decide for myself. Though it sounds like you've already chosen not to believe her." He fell into step beside me. "She dragged two innocent women into this." "She was working to ensure Hybern's alliance held strong." Lucien halted me with a hand around my elbow. I allowed it because not allowing it, winnowing the way I'd done in the woods those months ago, or using an Illyrian defensive maneuver to knock him on his ass, would ruin my ruse. "You're smarter than that." I studied the broad, tan hand wrapped around my elbow. Then I met one eye of russet and one of whirring gold. Lucien breathed, "Where is he keeping her?" I knew who he meant. I shook my head. "I don't know. Rhysand has a hundred places where they could be, but I doubt he'd use any of them to hide Elain, knowing that I'm aware of them." "Tell me anyway. List all of them." "You'll die the moment you set foot in his territory." "I survived well enough when I found you." "You couldn't see that he had me in thrall. You let him take me back." Lie, lie, lie. But the hurt and guilt I expected weren't there. Lucien slowly released his grip. "I need to find her." "You don't even know Elain. The mating bond is just a physical reaction overriding your good sense." "Ts that what it did to you and Rhys?" A quiet, dangerous question. But I made fear enter my eyes, let myself drag up memories of the Weaver, the Carver, the Middengard Wyrm so that old terror drenched my scent. "I don't want to talk about that," I said, my voice a rasping wobble. A clock chimed on the main level. I sent a silent prayer of thanks to the Mother and launched into a quick walk. "We'll be late." Lucien only nodded. But I felt his gaze on my back, fixed right on my spine, as I headed downstairs. To see Ianthe. And at last decide how I was going to shred her into pieces. The High Priestess looked exactly as I remembered, both in those memories Rhys had shown me and in my own daydreamings of using the talons hidden beneath my nails to carve out her eyes, then her tongue, then open up her throat. My rage had become a living thing inside my chest, an echoing heartbeat that soothed me to sleep and stirred me to waking. I quieted it as I stared at Ianthe across the formal dining table, Tamlin and Lucien flanking me. She still wore the pale hood and silver circlet set with its limpid blue stone. Like a Siphon--the jewel in its center reminded me of Azriel's and Cassian's Siphons. And I wondered if, like the Illyrian warriors', the jewel somehow helped shape an unwieldy gift of magic into something more refined, deadlier. She had never removed it--but then again, I had never seen Ianthe summon any greater power than igniting a ball of faelight in a room. The High Priestess lowered her teal eyes to the dark wood table, the hood casting shadows on her perfect face. "I wish to begin by saying how truly sorry I am. I acted out of a desire to ... to grant what I believed you perhaps yearned for but did not dare voice, while also keeping our allies in Hybern satisfied with our allegiance." Pretty, poisoned lies. But finding her true motive ... I'd been waiting these weeks for this meeting. Had spent these weeks pretending to convalesce, pretending to heal from the horrors I'd survived at Rhysand's hands. "Why would I ever wish for my sisters to endure that?" My voice came out trembling, cold. Ianthe lifted her head, scanning my unsure, if not a bit aloof, face. "So you could be with them forever. And if Lucien had discovered that Elain was his mate beforehand, it would have been ... devastating to realize he'd only have a few decades." The sound of Elain's name on her lips sent a snarl rumbling up my throat. But I leashed it, falling into that mask of pained quiet, the newest in my arsenal. Lucien answered, "If you expect our gratitude, you'll be waiting a while, Ianthe." Tamlin shot him a warning look--both at the words and the tone. Perhaps Lucien would kill Ianthe before I had the chance, just for the horror she'd put his mate through that day. "No," Ianthe breathed, eyes wide, the perfect picture of remorse and guilt. "No, I don't expect gratitude in the least. Or forgiveness. But understanding ... This is my home, too." She lifted a slender hand clad in silver rings and bracelets to encompass the room, the manor. "We have all had to make alliances we didn't believe we'd ever forge--perhaps unsavory ones, yes, but ... Hybern's force is too great to stop. It now can only be weathered like any other storm." A glance toward Tamlin. "We have worked so hard to prepare ourselves for Hybern's inevitable arrival--all these months. I made a grave mistake, and I will always regret any pain I caused, but let us continue this good work together. Let us find a way to ensure our lands and people survive." "At the cost of how many others?" Lucien demanded. Again, that warning look from Tamlin. But Lucien ignored him. "What I saw in Hybern," Lucien said, gripping the arms of his chair hard enough that the carved wood groaned. "Any promises he made of peace and immunity ..." He halted, as if remembering that Ianthe might very well feed this back to the king. He loosened his grip on the chair, his long fingers flexing before settling on the arms again. "We have to be careful." "We will be," Tamlin promised. "But we've already agreed to certain conditions. Sacrifices. If we break apart now ... even with Hybern as our ally, we have to present a solid front. Together." He still trusted her. Still thought that Ianthe had merely made a bad call. Had no idea what lurked beneath the beauty, the clothes, and the pious incantations. But then again, that same blindness kept him from realizing what prowled beneath my skin as well. Ianthe bowed her head again. "I will endeavor to be worthy of my friends." Lucien seemed to be trying very, very hard not to roll his eyes. But Tamlin said, "We'll all try." That was his new favorite word: try. I only swallowed, making sure he heard it, and nodded slowly, keeping my eyes on Ianthe. "Don't ever do anything like that again." A fool's command--one she'd expected me to make, from the quickness with which she nodded. Lucien leaned back in his seat, refusing to say anything else. "Lucien is right, though," I blurted, the portrait of concern. "What of the people in this court during this conflict?" I frowned at Tamlin. "They were brutalized by Amarantha--I'm not sure how well they will endure living beside Hybern. They have suffered enough." Tamlin's jaw tightened. "Hybern has promised that our people shall remain untouched and undisturbed." Our people. I nearly scowled--even as I nodded again in understanding. "It was a part of our ... bargain." When he'd sold out all of Prythian, sold out everything decent and good in himself, to retrieve me. "Our people will be safe when Hybern arrives. Though I've sent out word that families should ... relocate to the eastern part of the territory. For the time being." Good. At least he'd considered those potential casualties-- at least he cared that much about his people, understood what sorts of sick games Hybern liked to play and that he might swear one thing but mean another. If he was already moving those most at risk during this conflict out of the way ... It made my work here all the easier. And east--a bit of information I tucked away. If east was safe, then the west ... Hybern would indeed be coming from that direction. Arriving there. Tamlin blew out a breath. "That brings me to the other reason behind this meeting." I braced myself, schooling my face into bland curiosity, as he declared, "The first delegation from Hybern arrives tomorrow." Lucien's golden skin paled. Tamlin added, "Jurian will be here by noon." <|title|>Chapter 2 <|startofchapter|>I'd barely heard a whisper of Jurian these past weeks--hadn't seen the resurrected human commander since that night in Hybern. Jurian had been reborn through the Cauldron using the hideous remnants of him that Amarantha had hoarded as trophies for five hundred years, his soul trapped and aware within his own magically preserved eye. He was mad--had gone mad long before the King of Hybern had resurrected him to lead the human queens down a path of ignorant submission. Tamlin and Lucien had to know. Had to have seen that gleam in Jurian's eyes. But ... they also did not seem to entirely mind that the King of Hybern possessed the Cauldron--that it was capable of cleaving this world apart. Starting with the wall. The only thing standing between the gathering, lethal Fae armies and the vulnerable human lands below. No, that threat certainly didn't seem to keep Lucien or Tamlin awake at night. Or from inviting these monsters into their home. Tamlin had promised upon my return that I was to be included in the planning, in every meeting. And he was true to his word when he explained that Jurian would arrive with two other commanders from Hybern, and I would be present for it. They indeed wished to survey the wall, to test for the perfect spot to rend it once the Cauldron had recovered its strength. Turning my sisters into Fae, apparently, had drained it. My smugness at the fact was short-lived. My first task: learn where they planned to strike, and how long the Cauldron required to return to its full capacity. And then smuggle that information to Rhysand and the others. I took extra care dressing the next day, after sleeping fitfully thanks to a dinner with a guilt-ridden Ianthe, who went to excessive lengths to kiss my ass and Lucien's. The priestess apparently wished to wait until the Hybern commanders were settled before making her appearance. She'd cooed about wanting to ensure they had the chance to get to know us before she intruded, but one look at Lucien told me that he and I, for once, agreed: she had likely planned some sort of grand entrance. It made little difference to me--to my plans. Plans that I sent down the mating bond the next morning, words and images tumbling along a night-filled corridor. I did not dare risk using the bond too often. I had communicated with Rhysand only once since I'd arrived. Just once, in the hours after I'd walked into my old bedroom and spied the thorns that had conquered it. It had been like shouting across a great distance, like speaking underwater. I am safe and well, I'd fired down the bond. I'll tell you what I know soon. I'd waited, letting the words travel into the dark. Then I'd asked, Are they alive? Hurt? I didn't remember the bond between us being so hard to hear, even when I'd dwelled on this estate and he'd used it to see if I was still breathing, to make sure my despair hadn't swallowed me whole. But Rhysand's response had come a minute later. I love you. They are alive. They are healing. That was it. As if it was all that he could manage. I had drifted back to my new chambers, locked the door, and enveloped the entire place in a wall of hard air to keep any scent from my silent tears escaping as I curled up in a corner of the bathing room. I had once sat in such a position, watching the stars during the long, bleak hours of the night. Now I took in the cloudless blue sky beyond the open window, listened to the birds singing to one another, and wanted to roar. I had not dared to ask for more details about Cassian and Azriel--or my sisters. In terror of knowing just how bad it had been--and what I'd do if their healing turned grim. What I'd bring down upon these people. Healing. Alive and healing. I reminded myself of that every day. Even when I still heard their screams, smelled their blood. But I did not ask for more. Did not risk touching the bond beyond that first time. I didn't know if someone could monitor such things--the silent messages between mates. Not when the mating bond could be scented, and I was playing such a dangerous game with it. Everyone believed it had been severed, that Rhys's lingering scent was because he'd forced me, had planted that scent in me. They believed that with time, with distance, his scent would fade. Weeks or months, likely. And when it didn't fade, when it remained ... That's when I'd have to strike, with or without the information I needed. But out of the possibility that communicating down the bond kept its scent strong ... I had to minimize how much I used it. Even if not talking to Rhys, not hearing that amusement and cunning ... I would hear those things again, I promised myself over and over. See that wry smile. And I was again thinking of how pained that face had been the last time I'd seen it, thinking of Rhys, covered in Azriel's and Cassian's blood, as Jurian and the two MHybern commanders winnowed into the gravel of the front drive the next day. Jurian was in the same light leather armor, his brown hair whipping across his face in the blustery spring breeze. He spied us standing on the white marble steps into the house and his mouth curled in that crooked, smug smile. I willed ice into my veins, the coldness from a court I had never set foot in. But I wielded its master's gift on myself, turning burning rage into frozen calm as Jurian swaggered toward us, a hand on the hilt of his sword. But it was the two commanders--one male, one female-- that had a sliver of true fear sliding into my heart. High Fae in appearance, their skin the same ruddy hue and hair the identical inky black as their king. But it was their vacant, unfeeling faces that snagged the eye. A lack of emotion honed from millennia of cruelty. Tamlin and Lucien had gone rigid by the time Jurian halted at the foot of the sweeping front stairs. The human commander smirked. "You're looking better than the last time I saw you." I dragged my eyes to his. And said nothing. Jurian snorted and gestured the two commanders forward. "May I present Their Highnesses, Prince Dagdan and Princess Brannagh, nephew and niece to the King of Hybern." Twins--perhaps linked in power and mental bonds as well. Tamlin seemed to remember that these were now his allies and marched down the stairs. Lucien followed. He'd sold us out. Sold out Prythian--for me. To get me back. Smoke curled in my mouth. I willed frost to fill it again. Tamlin inclined his head to the prince and princess. "Welcome to my home. We have rooms prepared for all of you. "My brother and I shall reside in one together," the princess said. Her voice was deceptively light--almost girlish. The utter lack of feeling, the utter authority was anything but. I could practically feel the snide remark simmering in Lucien. But I stepped down the stairs and said, ever the lady of the house that these people, that Tamlin, had once expected me to gladly embrace, "We can easily make adjustments." Lucien's metal eye whirred and narrowed on me, but I kept my face impassive as I curtsied to them. To my enemy. Which of my friends would face them on the battlefield? Would Cassian and Azriel have even healed enough to fight, let alone lift a sword? I did not allow myself to dwell on it--on how Cassian had screamed as his wings had been shredded. Princess Brannagh surveyed me: the rose-colored dress, the hair that Alis had curled and braided over the top of my head in a coronet, the pale pink pearls at my ears. A harmless, lovely package, perfect for a High Lord to mount whenever he wished. Brannagh's lip curled as she glanced at her brother. The prince deemed the same thing, judging by his answering sneer. Tamlin snarled softly in warning. "If you're done staring at her, perhaps we can move on to the business between us." Jurian let out a low chuckle and strode up the stairs without being given leave to do so. "They're curious." Lucien stiffened at the impudence of the gesture, the words. "It's not every century that the contested possession of a female launches a war. Especially a female with such ... talents." I only turned on a heel and stalked up the steps after him. "Perhaps if you'd bothered going to war over Miryam, she wouldn't have left you for Prince Drakon." A ripple seemed to go through Jurian. Tamlin and Lucien tensed at my back, torn between monitoring our exchange and escorting the two Hybern royals into the house. Upon my own explanation that Azriel and his network of spies were well trained, we'd cleared any unnecessary servants, wary of spying ears and eyes. Only the most trusted among them remained. Of course, I'd forgotten to mention that I knew Azriel had pulled his spies weeks ago, the information not worth the cost of their lives. Or that it served my own purposes to have fewer people watching me. Jurian halted at the top of the stairs, his face a mask of cruel death as I took the last steps to him. "Careful what you say, girl." I smiled, breezing past. "Or what? You'll throw me in the Cauldron?" I strode between the front doors, edging around the table in the heart of the entry hall, its towering vase of flowers arching to meet the crystal chandelier. Right there--just a few feet away, I had crumpled into a ball of terror and despair all those months ago. Right there in the center of the foyer, Mor had picked me up and carried me out of this house and into freedom. "Here's the first rule of this visit," I said to Jurian over my shoulder as I headed for the dining room, where lunch awaited. "Don't threaten me in my own home." The posturing, I knew a moment later, had worked. Not on Jurian, who glowered as he claimed a seat at the table. But on Tamlin, who brushed a knuckle over my cheek as he passed by, unaware of how carefully I had chosen the words, how I had baited Jurian to serve up the opportunity on a platter. That was my first step: make Tamlin believe, truly believe, that I loved him and this place, and everyone in it. So that he would not suspect when I turned them on each other. Prince Dagdan yielded to his twin's every wish and order. As if he were the blade she wielded to slice through the world. He poured her drinks, sniffing them first. He selected the finest cuts of meat from the platters and neatly arranged them on her plate. He always let her answer, and never so much as looked at her with doubt in his eyes. One soul in two bodies. And from the way they glanced to each other in wordless exchanges, I wondered if they were perhaps ... perhaps like me. Daemati. My mental shields had been a wall of black adamant since arriving. But as we dined, beats of silence going on longer than conversation, I found myself checking them over and over. "We will set out for the wall tomorrow," Brannagh was saying to Tamlin. More of an order than a request. "Jurian will accompany us. We require the use of sentries who know where the holes in it are located." The thought of them so close to the human lands ... But my sisters were not there. No, my sisters were somewhere in the vast territory of my own court, protected by my friends. Even if my father would return home from his business dealings on the continent in a matter of a month or two. I still had not figured out how I'd tell him. "Lucien and I can escort you," I offered. Tamlin whipped his head to me. I waited for the refusal, the shutdown. But it seemed the High Lord had indeed learned his lesson, was indeed willing to try, as he merely gestured to Lucien. "My emissary knows the wall as well as any sentry." You are letting them do this; you are rationally allowing them to bring down that wall and prey upon the humans on the other side. The words tangled and hissed in my mouth. But I made myself give Tamlin a slow, if not slightly displeased, nod. He knew I'd never be happy about it--the girl he believed had been returned to him would always seek to protect her mortal homeland. Yet he thought I'd stomach it for him, for us. That Hybern wouldn't feast on the humans once that wall came down. That we'd merely absorb them into our territory. "We'll leave after breakfast," I told the princess. And I added to Tamlin, "With a few sentries as well." His shoulders loosened at that. I wondered if he'd heard how I'd defended Velaris. That I had protected the Rainbow against a legion of beasts like the Attor. That I had slaughtered the Attor, brutally, cruelly, for what it had done to me and mine. Jurian surveyed Lucien with a warrior's frankness. "I always wondered who made that eye after she carved it out." We did not speak of Amarantha here. We had never allowed her presence into this house. And it had stifled me for those months I'd lived here after Under the Mountain, killed me day by day to shove those fears and pain down deep. For a heartbeat, I weighed who I had been with who I was now supposed to be. Slowly healing--emerging back into the girl Tamlin had fed and sheltered and loved before Amarantha had snapped my neck after three months of torture. So I shifted in my seat. Studied the table. Lucien merely leveled a hard look at Jurian as the two Hybern royals watched with impassive faces. "I have an old friend at the Dawn Court. She's skilled at tinkering--blending magic and machinery. Tamlin got her to craft it for me at great risk." A hateful smile from Jurian. "Does your little mate have a rival?" "My mate is none of your concern." Jurian shrugged. "She shouldn't be any of yours, either, considering she's probably been fucked by half the Illyrian army by now." I was fairly certain that only centuries of training kept Lucien from leaping over the table to rip out Jurian's throat. But it was Tamlin's snarl that rattled the glasses. "You will behave as a proper guest, Jurian, or you will sleep in the stables like the other beasts." Jurian merely sipped from his wine. "Why should I be punished for stating the truth? Neither of you were in the War, when my forces allied with the Illyrian brutes." A sidelong glance at the two Hybern royals. "I suppose you two had the delight of fighting against them." "We kept the wings of their generals and lords as trophies," Dagdan said with a small smile. It took every bit of concentration not to glance at Tamlin. Not to demand the whereabouts of the two sets of wings his father had kept as trophies after he'd butchered Rhysand's mother and sister. Pinned in the study, Rhys had said. But I hadn't spotted any trace when I'd gone hunting for them upon returning here, feigning exploration out of sheer boredom on a rainy day. The cellars had yielded nothing, either. No trunks or crates or locked rooms containing those wings. The two bites of roasted lamb I'd forced down now rebelled against me. But at least any hint of disgust was a fair reaction to what the Hybern prince had claimed. Jurian indeed smiled at me as he sliced his lamb into little pieces. "You know that we fought together, don't you? Me and your High Lord. Held the lines against the Loyalists, battled side by side until gore was up to our shins." "He is not her High Lord," Tamlin said with unnerving softness. Jurian only purred at me, "He must have told you where he hid Miryam and Drakon." "They're dead," I said flatly. "The Cauldron says otherwise." Cold fear settled into my gut. He'd tried it already--to resurrect Miryam for himself. And had found that she was not amongst the deceased. "I was told they were dead," I said again, trying to sound bored, impatient. I took a bite of my lamb, so bland compared to the wealth of spices in Velaris. "I'd think you'd have better things to do, Jurian, than obsess over the lover who jilted you." His eyes gleamed, bright with five centuries of madness, as he skewered a morsel of meat with his fork. "They say you were fucking Rhysand before you ever jilted your own lover." "That is enough," Tamlin growled. But I felt it then. The tap against my mind. Saw their plan, clear and simple: rile us, distract us, while the two quiet royals slid into our minds. Mine was shielded. But Lucien's--Tamlin's-- I reached out with my night-kissed power, casting it like a net. And found two oily tendrils spearing for Lucien's and Tamlin's minds, as if they were indeed javelins thrown across the table. I struck. Dagdan and Brannagh jolted back in their seats as if I'd landed a physical blow, while their powers slammed into a barrier of black adamant around Lucien's and Tamlin's minds. They shot their dark eyes toward me. I held each of their gazes. "What's wrong?" Tamlin asked, and I realized how quiet it had become. I made a good show of furrowing my brow in confusion. "Nothing." I offered a sweet smile to the two royals. "Their Highnesses must be tired after such a long journey." And for good measure, I lunged for their own minds, finding a wall of white bone. They flinched as I dragged black talons down their mental shields, gouging deep. The warning blow cost me, a low, pulsing headache forming around my temples. But I merely dug back into my food, ignoring Jurian's wink. No one spoke for the rest of the meal. <|title|>Chapter 3 <|startofchapter|>The spring woods fell silent as we rode between the budding trees, birds and small furred beasts having darted for cover long before we passed. Not from me, or Lucien, or the three sentries trailing a respectful distance behind. But from Jurian and the two Hybern commanders who rode in the center of our party. As if they were as awful as the Bogge, as the naga. We reached the wall without incident or Jurian trying to bait us into distraction. I'd been awake most of the night, casting my awareness through the manor, hunting for any sign that Dagdan and Brannagh were working their daemati influence on anyone else. Mercifully, the curse-breaking ability I'd inherited from Helion Spell-Cleaver, High Lord of the Day Court, had detected no tangles, no spells, save for the wards around the house itself, preventing anyone from winnowing in or out. Tamlin had been tense at breakfast, but had not asked me to remain behind. I'd even gone so far as to test him by asking what was wrong--to which he'd only replied that he had a headache. Lucien had just patted him on the shoulder and promised to look after me. I'd nearly laughed at the words. But laughter was now far from my lips as the wall pulsed and throbbed, a heavy, hideous presence that loomed from half a mile away. Up close, though ... Even our horses were skittish, tossing their heads and stomping their hooves on the mossy earth as we tied them to the low-hanging branches of blooming dogwoods. "The gap in the wall is right up here," Lucien was saying, sounding about as thrilled as me to be in such company. Stomping over the fallen pink blossoms, Dagdan and Brannagh slid into step beside him, Jurian slithering off to survey the terrain, the sentries remaining with our mounts. I followed Lucien and the royals, keeping a casual distance behind. I knew my elegant, fine clothes weren't fooling the prince and princess into forgetting that a fellow daemati now walked at their backs. But I'd still carefully selected the embroidered sapphire jacket and brown pants--adorned only with the jeweled knife and belt that Lucien had once gifted me. A lifetime ago. "Who cleaved the wall here?" Brannagh asked, surveying the hole that we could not see--no, the wall itself was utterly invisible--but rather felt, as if the air had been sucked from one spot. "We don't know," Lucien replied, the dappled sunlight glinting along the gold thread adorning his fawn-brown jacket as he crossed his arms. "Some of the holes just appeared over the centuries. This one is barely wide enough for one person to get through." An exchanged glance between the twins. I came up behind them, studying the gap, the wall around it that made every instinct recoil at its ... wrongness. "This is where I came through--that first time." Lucien nodded, and the other two lifted their brows. But I took a step closer to Lucien, my arm nearly brushing his, letting him be a barrier between us. They'd been more careful at breakfast this morning about pushing against my mental shields. Yet now, letting them think I was physically cowed by them ... Brannagh studied how closely I stood to Lucien; how he shifted slightly to shield me, too. A little, cold smile curled her lips. "How many holes are in the wall?" "We've counted three along our entire border," Lucien said tightly. "Plus one off the coast--about a mile away." I didn't let my cool mask falter as he offered up the information. But Brannagh shook her head, dark hair devouring the sunlight. "The sea entrances are of no use. We need to break it on the land." "The continent surely has spots, too." "Their queens have an even weaker grasp on their people than you do," Dagdan said. I plucked up that gem of information, studied it. "We'll leave you to explore it, then," I said, waving toward the hole. "When you're done, we'll ride to the next." "It's two days from here," Lucien countered. "Then we'll plan a trip for that excursion," I said simply. Before Lucien could object, I asked, "And the third hole?" Lucien tapped a foot against the mossy ground, but said, "Two days past that." I turned to the royals, arching a brow. "Can both of you winnow?" Brannagh flushed, straightening. But it was Dagdan who admitted, "I can." He must have carried both Brannagh and Jurian when they arrived. He added, "Only a few miles if I bear others." I merely nodded and headed toward a tangle of stooping dogwoods, Lucien following close behind. When there was nothing but ruffling pink blossoms and trickling sunlight through the thatch of branches, when the royals had busied themselves with the wall, out of sight and sound, I took up a perch on a smooth, bald rock. Lucien sat against a nearby tree, folding one booted ankle over another. "Whatever you're planning, it'll land us knee- deep in shit." "Pm not planning anything." I plucked up a fallen pink blossom and twirled it between my thumb and forefinger. That golden eye narrowed, clicking softly. "What do you even see with that thing?" He didn't answer. I chucked the blossom onto the soft moss between us. "Don't trust me? After all we've been through?" He frowned at the discarded blossom, but still said nothing. I busied myself by sorting through my pack until I found the canteen of water. "If you'd been alive for the War," I asked him, taking a swig, "would you have fought on their side? Or fought for the humans?" "I would have been a part of the human-Fae alliance." "Even if your father wasn't?" "Especially if my father wasn't." But Beron had been part of that alliance, if I correctly recalled my lessons with Rhys all those months ago. "And yet here you are, ready to march with Hybern." "I did it for you, too, you know." Cold, hard words. "I went with him to get you back." "I never realized what a powerful motivator guilt can be." "That day you--went away," he said, struggling to avoid that other word--left. "I beat Tamlin back to the manor-- received the message when we were out on the border and raced here. But the only trace of you was that ring, melted between the stones of the parlor. I got rid of it a moment before Tam arrived home to see it." A probing, careful statement. Of the facts that pointed not toward abduction. "They melted it off my finger," I lied. His throat bobbed, but he just shook his head, the sunlight leaking through the forest canopy setting the ember-red of his hair flickering. We sat in silence for minutes. From the rustling and murmuring, the royals were finishing up, and I braced myself, calculating the words I'd need to wield without seeming SUSPICIOUS. I said quietly, "Thank you. For coming to Hybern to get me. He pulled at the moss beside him, jaw tight. "It was a trap. What I thought we were to do there ... it did not turn out that way. It was an effort not to bare my teeth. But I walked to him, taking up a place at his side against the wide trunk of the tree. "This situation is terrible," I said, and it was the truth. A low snort. I knocked my knee against his. "Don't let Jurian bait you. He's doing it to feel out any weaknesses between us." "I know." I turned my face to him, resting my knee against his in silent demand. "Why?" I asked. "Why does Hybern want to do this beyond some horrible desire for conquest? What drives him--his people? Hatred? Arrogance?" Lucien finally looked at me, the intricate pieces and carvings on the metal eye much more dazzling up close. "Do you--" Brannagh and Dagdan shoved through the bushes, frowning to find us sitting there. But it was Jurian--right on their heels, as if he'd been divulging the details of his surveying--who smiled at the sight of us, knee to knee and nearly nose to nose. "Careful, Lucien," the warrior sneered. "You see what happens to males who touch the High Lord's belongings." Lucien snarled, but I shot him a warning glare. Point proven, I said silently. And despite Jurian, despite the sneering royals, a corner of Lucien's mouth tugged upward. Ianthe was waiting at the stables when we returned. She'd made her grand arrival at the end of breakfast hours before, breezing into the dining room when the sun was shining in shafts of pure gold through the windows. I had no doubt she'd planned the timing, just as she had planned the stop in the middle of one of those sunbeams, angled so her hair glowed and the jewel atop her head burned with blue fire. I would have titled the painting Model Piety. After she'd been briefly introduced by Tamlin, she'd mostly cooed over Jurian--who had only scowled at her like some insect buzzing in his ear. Dagdan and Brannagh had listened to her fawning with enough boredom that I was starting to wonder if the two of them perhaps preferred no one's company but each other's. In whatever unholy capacity. Not a blink of interest toward the beauty who often made males and females stop to gape. Perhaps any sort of physical passion had long ago been drained away, alongside their souls. So the Hybern royals and Jurian had tolerated Ianthe for about a minute before they'd found their food more interesting. A slight that no doubt explained why she had decided to meet us here, awaiting our return as we rode in. It was my first time on a horse in months, and I was stiff enough that I could barely move as the party dismounted. I gave Lucien a subtle, pleading look, and he barely hid his smirk as he sauntered over to me. Our dispersing party watched as he braced my waist in his broad hands and easily hefted me off the horse, none more closely than Ianthe. I only patted Lucien on the shoulder in thanks. Ever the courtier, he bowed back. It was hard, sometimes, to remember to hate him. To remember the game I was already playing. Ianthe trilled, "A successful journey, I hope?" I jerked my chin toward the royals. "They seemed pleased." Indeed, whatever they'd been looking for, they'd found agreeable. I hadn't dared ask too many prying questions. Not yet. Ianthe bowed her head. "Thank the Cauldron for that." "What do you want," Lucien said a shade too flatly. She frowned but lifted her chin, folding her hands before her as she said, "We're to have a party in honor of our guests --and to coincide with the Summer Solstice in a few days. I wished to speak to Feyre about it." A two-faced smile. "Unless you have an objection to that." "He doesn't," I answered before Lucien could say something he'd regret. "Give me an hour to eat and change, and I'll meet you in the study." Perhaps a tinge more assertive than I'd once been, but she nodded all the same. I linked my elbow with Lucien's and steered him away. "See you soon," I told her, and felt her gaze on us as we walked from the dim stables and into the bright midday light. His body was taut, near-trembling. "What happened between you?" I hissed when we were lost among the hedges and gravel paths of the garden. "It's not worth repeating." "When I--was taken," I ventured, almost stumbling on the word, almost saying left. "Did she and Tamlin ..." I was not faking the twisting low in my gut. "No," he said hoarsely. "No. When Calanmai came along, he refused. He flat-out refused to participate. I replaced him in the Rite, but ..." I'd forgotten. Forgotten about Calanmai and the Rite. I did a mental tally of the days. No wonder I'd forgotten. I'd been in that cabin in the mountains. With Rhys buried in me. Perhaps we'd generated our own magic that night. But Lucien ... "You took Ianthe into that cave on Calanmai?" He wouldn't meet my gaze. "She insisted. Tamlin was ... Things were bad, Feyre. I went in his stead, and I did my duty to the court. I went of my own free will. And we completed the Rite." No wonder she'd backed off him. She'd gotten what she wanted. "Please don't tell Elain," he said. "When we--when we find her again," he amended. He might have completed the Great Rite with Ianthe of his own free will, but he certainly hadn't enjoyed it. Some line had been blurred--badly. And my heart shifted a bit in my chest as I said to him with no guile whatsoever, "I won't tell anyone unless you say so." The weight of that jeweled knife and belt seemed to grow. "I wish I had been there to stop it. I should have been there to stop it." I meant every word. Lucien squeezed our linked arms as we rounded a hedge, the house rising up before us. "You are a better friend to me, Feyre," he said quietly, "than I ever was to you." Alis frowned at the two dresses hanging from the armoire door, her long brown fingers smoothing over the chiffon and silk. "I don't know if the waist can be taken out," she said without peering back at where I sat on the edge of the bed. "We took so much of it in that there's not much fabric left to play with ... You might very well need to order new ones." She faced me then, running an eye over my robed body. I knew what she saw--what lies and poisoned smiles couldn't hide: I had become wraith-thin while living here after Amarantha. Yet for all Rhys had done to harm me, I'd gained back the weight ld lost, put on muscle, and discarded the sickly pallor in favor of sun-kissed skin. For a woman who had been tortured and tormented for months, I looked remarkably well. Our eyes held across the room, the silence hewn only by the humming of the few remaining servants in the hallway, busy with preparations for the solstice tomorrow morning. I'd spent the past two days playing the pretty pet, allowed into meetings with the Hybern royals mostly because I remained quiet. They were as cautious as we were, hedging Tamlin and Lucien's questions about the movements of their armies, their foreign allies--and other allies within Prythian. The meetings went nowhere, as all they wanted to know was information about our own forces. And about the Night Court. I fed Dagdan and Brannagh details both true and false, mixing them together seamlessly. I laid out the Illyrian host amongst the mountains and steppes, but selected the strongest clan as their weakest; I mentioned the efficiency of those blue stones from Hybern against Cassian's and Azriel's power but failed to mention how easily they'd worked around them. Any questions I couldn't evade, I feigned memory loss or trauma too great to bear recalling. But for all my lying and maneuvering, the royals were too guarded to reveal much of their own information. And for all my careful expressions, Alis seemed the only one who noted the tiny tells that even I couldn't control. "Do you think there are any gowns that will fit for solstice?" I said casually as her silence continued. "The pink and green ones fit, but I've worn them thrice already." "You never cared for such things," Alis said, clicking her tongue. "Am I not allowed to change my mind?" Those dark eyes narrowed slightly. But Alis yanked open the armoire doors, the dresses swaying with it, and riffled through its dark interior. "You could wear this." She held up an outfit. A set of turquoise Night Court clothes, cut so similarly to Amren's preferred fashion, dangled from her spindly fingers. My heart lurched. "That--why--" Words stumbled out of me, bulky and slippery, and I silenced myself with a sharp yank on my inner leash. I straightened. "I have never known you to be cruel, Alis." A snort. She chucked the clothes back into the armoire. "Tamlin shredded the two other sets--missed this one because it was in the wrong drawer." I wove a mental thread into the hallway to ensure no one was listening. "He was upset. I wish he'd destroyed that pair, too." "I was there that day, you know," Alis said, folding her spindly arms across her chest. "I saw the Morrigan arrive. Saw her reach into that cocoon of power and pick you up like a child. I begged her to take you out." My swallow wasn't feigned. "I never told him that. Never told any of them. I let them think you'd been abducted. But you clung to her, and she was willing to slaughter all of us for what had happened." "I don't know why you'd assume that." I tugged the edges of my silk robe tighter around me. "Servants talk. And Under the Mountain, I never heard of or saw Rhysand laying a hand on a servant. Guards, Amarantha's cronies, the people he was ordered to kill, yes. But never the meek. Never those unable to defend themselves." "He's a monster." "They say you came back different. Came back wrong." A crow's laugh. "I never bother to tell them I think you came back right. Came back right at last." A precipice yawned open before me. Lines--there were lines here, and my survival and that of Prythian depended upon navigating them. I rose from the bed, hands shaking slightly. But then Alis said, "My cousin works in the palace at Adriata." Summer Court. Alis had originally been from the Summer Court, and had fled here with her two nephews after her sister had been brutally murdered during Amarantha's reign. "Servants in that palace are not meant to be seen or heard, but they see and hear plenty when no one believes they're present." She was my friend. She had helped me at great risk Under the Mountain. Had stood by me in the months after. But if she jeopardized everything-- "She said you visited. And that you were healthy, and laughing, and happy." "It was a lie. He made me act that way." The wobble in my voice didn't take much to summon. A knowing, crooked smile. "If you say so." "I do say so." Alis pulled out a dress of creamy white. "You never got to wear this one. I had it ordered for after your wedding day." It wasn't exactly bride-like, but rather pure. Clean. The kind of gown I'd have resented when I returned from Under the Mountain, desperate to avoid any comparison to my ruined soul. But now ... I held Alis's stare, and wondered which of my plans she'd deciphered. Alis whispered, "I will only say this once. Whatever you plan to do, I beg you leave my boys out of it. Take whatever retribution you desire, but please spare them." I would never--I almost began. But I only shook my head, knotting my brows, utterly confused and distressed. "All I want is to settle back into life here. To heal." Heal the land of the corruption and darkness spreading across it. Alis seemed to understand it, too. She set the dress on the armoire door, airing out the loose, shining skirts. "Wear this on solstice," she said quietly. So I did. <|title|>Chapter 4 <|startofchapter|>Summer Solstice was exactly as I had remembered: streamers and ribbons and garlands of flowers everywhere, casks of ale and wine hauled out to the foothills surrounding the estate, High Fae and lesser faeries alike flocking to the celebrations. But what had not existed here a year ago was Ianthe. The celebrating would be sacrilege, she intoned, if we did not give thanks first. So we all were up two hours before the dawn, bleary-eyed and none of us too keen to endure her ceremony as the sun crested the horizon on the longest day of the year. I wondered if Tarquin had to weather such tedious rituals in his shining palace by the sea. Wondered what sort of celebrations would occur in Adriata today, with the High Lord of Summer who had come so very close to being a friend. As far as I knew, despite the murmurings between servants, Tarquin still had never sent word to Tamlin about the visit Rhys, Amren, and I had made. What did the Summer lord now think of my changed circumstances? I had little doubt Tarquin had heard. And I prayed he stayed out of it until my work here was finished. Alis had found me a luxurious white velvet cloak for the brisk ride into the hills, and Tamlin had lifted me onto a moon- pale mare with wildflowers woven into her silver mane. If I had wanted to paint a picture of serene purity, it would have been the image I cast that morning, my hair braided above my head, a crown of white hawthorn blossoms upon it. I'd dabbed rouge onto my cheeks and lips--a slight hint of color. Like the first blush of spring across a winter landscape. As our procession arrived at the hill, a gathered crowd of hundreds already atop it, all eyes turned to me. But I kept my gaze ahead, to where Ianthe stood before a rudimentary stone altar bedecked in flowers and the first fruits and grains of summer. The hood was off her pale blue robe for once, the silver circlet now resting directly atop her golden head. I smiled at her, my mare obediently pausing at the northern arc of the half circle that the crowd had formed around the hill's edge and Ianthe's altar, and wondered if Ianthe could spy the wolf grinning beneath. Tamlin helped me off the horse, the gray light of predawn shimmering along the golden threads in his green jacket. I forced myself to meet his eyes as he set me on the soft grass, aware of every other stare upon us. The memory gleamed in his gaze--in the way his gaze dipped to my mouth. A year ago, he had kissed me on this day. A year ago, I'd danced amongst these people, carefree and joyous for the first time in my life, and had believed it was the happiest I'd ever been and ever would be. I gave him a little, shy smile and took the arm he extended. Together, we crossed the grass toward Ianthe's stone altar, the Hybern royals, Jurian, and Lucien trailing behind. I wondered if Tamlin was also remembering another day all those months ago, when I'd worn a different white gown, when there had also been flowers strewn about. When my mate had rescued me after I'd decided not to go through with the wedding, some fundamental part of me knowing it wasn't right. I had believed I didn't deserve it, hadn't wanted to burden Tamlin for an eternity with someone as broken as I'd been at the time. And Rhys ... Rhys would have let me marry him, believing me to be happy, wanting me to be happy even if it killed him. But the moment I had said no ... He had saved me. Helped me save myself. I glanced sidelong at Tamlin. But he was studying my hand, braced on his arm. The empty finger where that ring had once perched. What did he make of it--where did he think that ring had gone, if Lucien had hidden the evidence? For a heartbeat, I pitied him. Pitied that not only Lucien had lied to him, but Alis as well. How many others had seen the truth of my suffering--and tried to spare him from it? Seen my suffering and done nothing to help me. Tamlin and I paused before the altar, Ianthe offering us a serene, regal nod. The Hybern royals shifted on their feet, not bothering to hide their impatience. Brannagh had made barely veiled complaints about the solstice at dinner last night, declaring that in Hybern they did not bother with such odious things and got on with the revelry. And implying, in her way, that soon, neither would we. I ignored the royals as Janthe lifted her hands and called to the crowd behind us, "A blessed solstice to us all." Then began an endless string of prayers and rituals, her prettiest young acolytes assisting with the pouring of sacred wine, with the blessing of the harvest goods on the altar, with beseeching the sun to rise. A lovely, rehearsed little number. Lucien was half-asleep behind me. But I'd gone over the ceremony with Ianthe, and knew what was coming when she lifted the sacred wine and intoned, "As the light is strongest today, let it drive out unwanted darkness. Let it banish the black stain of evil." Jab after jab at my mate, my home. But I nodded along with her. "Would Princess Brannagh and Prince Dagdan do us the honor of imbibing this blessed wine?" The crowd shifted. The Hybern royals blinked, frowning to each other. But I stepped aside, smiling prettily at them and gesturing to the altar. They opened their mouths, no doubt to refuse, but Ianthe would not be denied. "Drink, and let our new allies become new friends," she declared. "Drink, and wash away the endless night of the year." The two daemati were likely testing that cup for poison through whatever magic and training they possessed, but I kept the bland smile on my face as they finally approached the altar and Brannagh accepted the outstretched silver cup. They each barely had a sip before they made to step back. But Ianthe cooed at them, insisting they come behind the altar to witness our ceremony at her side. I had made sure she knew precisely how disgusted they were with her rituals. How they would do their best to stomp out her usefulness as a leader of her people once they arrived. She now seemed inclined to convert them. More prayers and rituals, until Tamlin was summoned to the other side of the altar to light a candle for the souls extinguished in the past year--to now bring them back into the light's embrace when the sun rose. Pink began to stain the clouds behind them. Jurian was also called forward to recite one final prayer I'd requested Ianthe add, in honor of the warriors who fought for our safety each day. And then Lucien and I were standing alone in the circle of grass, the altar and horizon before us, the crowd at our backs and sides. From the rigidity of his posture, the dart of his gaze over the site, I knew he was now running through the prayers and how I had worked with Ianthe on the ceremony. How he and I remained on this side of the line right as the sun was about to break over the world, and the others had been maneuvered away. Ianthe stepped toward the hill's edge, her golden hair tumbling freely down her back as she lifted her arms to the sky. The location was intentional, as was the positioning of her arms. She'd made the same gesture on Winter Solstice, standing in the precise spot where the sun would rise between her upraised arms, filling them with light. Her acolytes had discreetly marked the place in the grass with a carved stone. Slowly, the golden disc of the sun broke over the hazy greens and blues of the horizon. Light filled the world, clear and strong, spearing right for us. Ianthe's back arched, her body a mere vessel for the solstice's light to fill, and what I could see of her face was already limned in pious ecstasy. The sun rose, a held, gilded note echoing through the land. The crowd began to murmur. Then cry out. Not at Ianthe. But at me. At me, resplendent and pure in white, beginning to glow with the light of day as the sun's path flowed directly over me instead. No one had bothered to confirm or even notice that Ianthe's marker stone had moved five feet to the right, too busy with my parading arrival to spy a phantom wind slide it through the grass. It took Ianthe longer than anyone else to look. To turn to see that the sun's power was not filling her, blessing her. I released the damper on the power that I had unleashed in Hybern, my body turning incandescent as light shone through. Pure as day, pure as starlight. "Cursebreaker," some murmured. "Blessed," others whispered. I made a show of looking surprised--surprised and yet accepting of the Cauldron's choice. Tamlin's face was taut with shock, the Hybern royals' nothing short of baffled. But I turned to Lucien, my light radiating so brightly that it bounced off his metal eye. A friend beseeching another for help. I reached a hand toward him. Beyond us, I could feel Ianthe scrambling to regain control, to find some way to spin it. Perhaps Lucien could, too. For he took my hand, and then knelt upon one knee in the grass, pressing my fingers to his brow. Like stalks of wheat in a wind, the others fell to their knees as well. For in all of her preening ceremonies and rituals, never had Ianthe revealed any sign of power or blessing. But Feyre Cursebreaker, who had led Prythian from tyranny and darkness ... Blessed. Holy. Undimming before evil. I let my glow spread, until it, too, rippled from Lucien's bowed form. A knight before his queen. When I looked to Ianthe and smiled again, I let a little bit of the wolf show. The festivities, at least, remained the same. Once the uproar and awe had ebbed, once my own glow had vanished when the sun crested higher than my head, we made our way to the nearby hills and fields, where those who had not attended the ceremony had already heard about my small miracle. I kept close to Lucien, who was inclined to indulge me, as everyone seemed to be torn between joy and awe, question and concern. Ianthe spent the next six hours trying to explain what had happened. The Cauldron had blessed her chosen friend, she told whoever would listen. The sun had altered its very path to show how glad it was for my return. Only her acolytes really paid attention, and half of them appeared only mildly interested. Tamlin, however, seemed the wariest--as if the blessing had somehow upset me, as if he remembered that same light in Hybern and could not figure out why it disturbed him so. But duty had him fielding thanks and good wishes from his subjects, warriors, and the lesser lords, leaving me free to wander. I was stopped every now and then by fervent, adoring faeries who wished to touch my hand, to weep a bit over me. Once, I would have cringed and winced. Now I received their thanks and prayers beatifically, thanking them, smiling at them. Some of it was genuine. I had no quarrel with the people of these lands, who had suffered alongside the rest. None. But the courtiers and sentries who sought me out ... I put on a better show for them. Cauldron-blessed, they called me. An honor, I merely replied. On and on I repeated those words, through breakfast and lunch, until I returned to the house to freshen up and take a moment for myself. In the privacy of my room, I set my crown of flowers on the dressing table and smiled slightly at the eye tattooed into my right palm. The longest day of the year, I said into the bond, sending along flickers of all that had occurred atop that hill. I wish I could spend it with you. He would have enjoyed my performance--would have laughed himself hoarse afterward at the expression on Ianthe's face. I finished washing up and was about to head out into the hills again when Rhysand's voice filled my mind. It'd be an honor, he said, laughter in every word, to spend even a moment in the company of Feyre Cauldron-blessed. I chuckled. The words were distant, strained. Keep it quick --TI had to keep it quick, or risk exposure. And more than anything, I needed to ask, to know-- Is everyone all right? I waited, counting the minutes. Yes. As well as we can be. When do you come home to me? Each word was quieter than the last. Soon, I promised him. Hybern is here. I'll be done soon. He didn't reply--and I waited another few minutes before I again donned my flower crown and strode down the stairs. As I emerged into the bedecked garden, though, Rhysand's faint voice filled my head once more. I wish I could spend today with you, too. The words wrapped a fist around my heart, and I forced them from my mind as I returned to the party in the hills, my steps heavier than they'd been when I floated into the house. But lunch had been cleared away, and dancing had begun. I saw him waiting on the outskirts of one of the circles, observing every move I took. I glanced between the grass and the crowd and the cluster of musicians coaxing such lively music from drums and fiddles and pipes as I approached, no more than a shy, hesitant doe. Once, those same sounds had shaken me awake, had made me dance and dance. I supposed they were now little more than weapons in my arsenal as I stopped before Tamlin, lowered my lashes, and asked softly, "Will you dance with me?" Relief, happiness, and a slight edge of concern. "Yes," he breathed. "Yes, of course." So I let him lead me into the swift dance, spinning and tilting me, people gathering to cheer and clap. Dance after dance after dance, until sweat was running down my back as I worked to keep up, keep that smile on my face, to remember to laugh when my hands were within strangling distance of his throat. The music eventually shifted into something slower, and Tamlin eased us into the melody. When others had found their own partners more interesting to watch, he murmured, "This morning ... Are you all right?" My head snapped up. "Yes. I--I don't know what that was, but yes. Is Ianthe ... mad?" "I don't know. She didn't see it coming--I don't think she handles surprises very well." "I should apologize." His eyes flashed. "What for? Perhaps it was a blessing. Magic still surprises me. If she's angry, it's her problem." I made a show of considering, then nodded. Pressed closer, loathing every place where our bodies touched. I didn't know how Rhys had endured it--endured Amarantha. For five decades. "You look beautiful today," Tamlin said. "Thank you." I made myself peer up into his face. "Lucien --Lucien told me that you didn't complete the Rite at Calanmai. That you refused." And you let Ianthe take him into that cave instead. His throat bobbed. "I couldn't stomach it." And yet you could stomach making a deal with Hybern, as if I were a stolen item to be returned. "Maybe this morning was not just a blessing for me," I offered. A stroke of his hand down my back was his only reply. That was all we said for the next three dances, until hunger dragged me toward the tables where dinner had now been laid out. I let him fill a plate for me, let him serve me himself as we found a spot under a twisted old oak and watched the dancing and the music. I nearly asked if it was worth it--if giving up this sort of peace was worth it, in order to have me back. For Hybern would come here, use these lands. And there would be no more singing and dancing. Not once they arrived. But I kept quiet as the sunlight faded and night finally fell. The stars winked into existence, dim and small above the blazing fires. I watched them through the long hours of celebrating, and could have sworn that they kept me company, my silent and stalwart friends. <|title|>Chapter 5 <|startofchapter|>I crawled back to the manor two hours after midnight, too exhausted to last until dawn. Especially when I noted the way Tamlin looked at me, remembering that dawn last year when he'd led me away and kissed me as the sun rose. I asked Lucien to escort me, and he'd been more than happy to do so, given that his own status as a mated male made him uninterested in any sort of female company these days. And given that Ianthe had been trying to corner him all day to ask about what had happened at the ceremony. I changed into my nightgown, a small, lacy thing I'd once worn for Tamlin's enjoyment and now was glad to don thanks to the day's sweat still clinging to my skin, and flopped into bed. For nearly half an hour, I kicked at the sheets, tossing and turning, thrashing. The Attor. The Weaver. My sisters being thrown into the Cauldron. All of them twined and eddied around me. I let them. Most of the others were still celebrating when I yelped, a sharp, short cry that had me bouncing from the bed. My heart thundered along my veins, my bones, as I cracked open the door, sweating and haggard, and padded across the hall. Lucien answered on the second knock. "I heard you--what's wrong." He scanned me, russet eye wide as he noted my disheveled hair, my sweaty nightgown. I swallowed, a silent question on my face, and he nodded, retreating into the room to let me inside. Bare from the waist up, he'd managed to haul on a pair of pants before opening the door, and hastily buttoned them as I strode past. His room had been bedecked in Autumn Court colors--the only tribute to his home he'd ever let show--and I surveyed the night-dark space, the rumpled bedsheets. He perched on the rolled arm of a large chair before the blackened fire, watching me wring my hands in the center of the crimson carpet. "I dream about it," I rasped. "Under the Mountain. And when I wake up, I can't remember where I am." I lifted my now-unmarred left arm before me. "I can't remember when I am. Truth--and half a lie. I still dreamed of those horrible days, but no longer did they consume me. No longer did I run to the bathroom in the middle of the night to hurl my guts up. "What did you dream of tonight?" he asked quietly. I dragged my eyes to his, haunted and bleak. "She had me spiked to the wall. Like Clare Beddor. And the Attor was--" I shuddered, running my hands over my face. Lucien rose, stalking to me. The ripple of fear and pain at my own words masked my scent enough, masked my own power as my dark snares picked up a slight vibration in the house. Lucien paused half a foot from me. He didn't so much as object as I threw my arms around his neck, burying my face against his warm, bare chest. It was seawater from Tarquin's own gift that slipped from my eyes, down my face, and onto his golden skin. Lucien loosed a heavy sigh and slid an arm around my waist, the other threading through my hair to cradle my head. "I'm sorry," he murmured. "I'm sorry." He held me, stroking soothing lines down my back, and I calmed my weeping, those seawater tears drying up like wet sand in the sun. I lifted my head from his sculpted chest at last, my fingers digging into the hard muscles of his shoulders as I peered into his concerned face. I took deep, heaving breaths, my brows knotting and mouth parting as I-- "What's going on." Lucien whipped his head toward the door. Tamlin stood there, face a mask of cold calm. The beginnings of claws glinted at his knuckles. We pushed away, too swiftly to be casual. "I had a nightmare," I explained, straightening my nightgown. "I--I didn't want to wake the house." Tamlin was just staring at Lucien, whose mouth had tightened into a thin line as he marked those claws, still half- drawn. "I had a nightmare," I repeated a bit sharply, gripping Tamlin's arm and leading him from the room before Lucien could so much as open his mouth. I closed the door, but could still feel Tamlin's attention fixed on the male behind it. He didn't sheath his claws. Didn't summon them any further, either. I strode the few feet to my room, watching Tamlin assess the hall. The distance between my door and Lucien's. "Good night," I said, and shut the door in Tamlin's face. I waited the five minutes it took Tamlin to decide not to kill Lucien, and then smiled. I wondered if Lucien had pieced it together. That I had known Tamlin would come to my room tonight, after I had given him so many shy touches and glances today. That I had changed into my most indecent nightgown not for the heat, but so that when my invisible snares in the house informed me that Tamlin had finally worked up the nerve to come to my bedroom, I'd look the part. A feigned nightmare, the evidence set into place with my thrashed sheets. I'd left Lucien's door open, with him too distracted and unsuspecting of why I'd really be there to bother to shut it, or notice the shield of hard air I'd placed around the room so that he wouldn't hear or scent Tamlin as he arrived. Until Tamlin saw us there, limbs entwined, my nightgown askew, staring at each other so intently, so full of emotion that we'd either just been starting or finishing up. That we didn't even notice until Tamlin was right there--and that invisible shield vanished before he could sense it. A nightmare, I'd told Tamlin. I was the nightmare. Preying on what Tamlin had feared from my very first days here. I had not forgotten that long-ago fight he'd picked with Lucien. The warning he'd given him to stop flirting with me. To stay away. The fear that I'd preferred the red-haired lord over him and that it would threaten every plan he had. Back off, he'd told Lucien. I had no doubt Tamlin was now running through every look and conversation since then. Every time Lucien had intervened on my behalf, both Under the Mountain and afterward. Weighing how much that new mating bond with Elain held sway over his friend. Considering how this very morning, Lucien had knelt before me, swearing fealty to a newborn god, as if we had both been Cauldron-blessed. I let myself smile for a moment longer, then dressed. There was more work to do. <|title|>Chapter 6 <|startofchapter|>A set of keys to the estate gates had gone missing. But after last night's incident, Tamlin didn't appear to care. Breakfast was silent, the Hybern royals sullen at being kept waiting so long to see the second cleft in the wall, and Jurian, for once, too tired to do anything but shovel meat and eggs into his hateful mouth. Tamlin and Lucien, it seemed, had spoken before the meal, but the latter made a point to keep a healthy distance from me. To not look at or speak to me, as if still needing to convince Tamlin of our innocence. I debated asking Jurian outright if he'd stolen the keys from whatever guard had lost them, but the silence was a welcome reprieve. Until Ianthe breezed in, carefully avoiding acknowledging me, as if I was indeed the blinding sun that had been stolen from her. "I am sorry to interrupt your meal, but there is a matter to discuss, High Lord," Ianthe said, pale robes swirling at her feet as she halted halfway to the table. All of us perked up at that. Tamlin, brooding and snarly, demanded, "What is it." She made a show of realizing the Hybern royals were present. Listening. I tried not to snort at the oh-so-nervous glance she threw their way, then to Tamlin. The next words were no surprise whatsoever. "Perhaps we should wait until after the meal. When you are alone." No doubt a power play, to remind them that she did, in fact, have sway here--with Tamlin. That Hybern, too, might want to remain on her good side, considering the information she bore. But I was cruel enough to say sweetly, "If we can trust our allies in Hybern to go to war with us, then we can trust them to use discretion. Go ahead, Ianthe." She didn't so much as look in my direction. But now caught between outright insult and politeness ... Tamlin weighed our company against Ianthe's posture and said, "Let's hear it." Her white throat bobbed. "There is ... My acolytes discovered that the land around my temple is ... dying." Jurian rolled his eyes and went back to his bacon. "Then tell the gardeners," Brannagh said, returning to her own food. Dagdan snickered into his cup of tea. "It is not a matter of gardening." Ianthe straightened. "It is a blight upon the land. Grass, root, bud--all of it, shriveled up and sickly. It reeks of the naga." It was an effort not to glance to Lucien--to see if he also noticed the too-eager gleam in her eye. Even Tamlin loosed a sigh, as if he saw it for what it was: an attempt to regain some ground, perhaps a scheme to poison the earth and then miraculously heal it. "There are other spots in the woods where things have died and are not coming back," Ianthe went on, pressing a silver- adorned hand to her chest. "I fear it's a warning that the naga are gathering--and plan to attack." Oh, I'd gotten under her skin. d been wondering what she'd do after yesterday's solstice, after I'd robbed her of her moment and power. But this ... Clever. I hid my smirk down deep and said gently, "Ianthe, perhaps it is a case for the groundskeepers." She stiffened, at last facing me. You think you're playing the game, I itched to tell her, but you have no idea that every choice you made last night and this morning were only steps I nudged you toward. I jerked my chin toward the royals, then Lucien. "We're heading out this afternoon to survey the wall, but if the problem remains when we return in a few days, I'll help you look into it." Those silver-ringed fingers curled into loose fists at her sides. But like the true viper she was, Ianthe said to Tamlin, "Will you be joining them, High Lord?" She looked to me and Lucien--the assessment too lingering to be casual. A faint, low headache was already forming, made worse with every word out of her mouth. I'd been up too late, and had gotten too little sleep--and I needed my strength for the days ahead. "He will not," I said, cutting off Tamlin before he could reply. He set down his utensils. "I think I will." "I don't need an escort." Let him unravel the layers of defensiveness in that statement. Jurian snorted. "Starting to doubt our good intentions, High Lord?" Tamlin snarled at him. "Careful." I placed a hand flat on the table. "I'll be fine with Lucien and the sentries." Lucien seemed inclined to sink into his seat and disappear forever. I surveyed Dagdan and Brannagh and smiled a bit. "I can defend myself, if it comes to that," I said to Tamlin. The daemati smiled back at me. I hadn't felt another touch on my mental barriers, or the ones I'd been working to keep around as many people here as possible. The constant use of my power was wearing on me, however--being away from this place for four or five days would be a welcome relief. Especially as Ianthe murmured to Tamlin, "Perhaps you should go, my friend." I waited--waited for whatever nonsense was about to come out of that pouty mouth-- "You never know when the Night Court will attempt to snatch her away." I had a blink to debate my reaction. To opt for leaning back in my chair, shoulders curling inward, hauling up those images of Clare, of Rhys with those ash arrows through his wings-- any sort of way to dredge my scent in fear. "Have you news?" I whispered. Brannagh and Dagdan looked very interested at that. The priestess opened her mouth, but Jurian cut her off, drawling, "There is no news. Their borders are secure. Rhysand would be a fool to push his luck by coming here." I stared at my plate, the portrait of bowed terror. "A fool, yes," Ianthe countered, "but one with a vendetta." She faced Tamlin, the morning sun catching in the jewel atop her head. "Perhaps if you returned to him his family's wings, he might ... settle." For a heartbeat, silence rippled through me. Followed by a wave of roaring that drowned out nearly every thought, every self-preserving instinct. I could barely hear over that bellowing in my blood, my bones. But the words, the offer ... A cheap attempt at snaring me. I pretended not to hear, not to care. Even as I waited and waited for Tamlin's reply. When Tamlin answered, his voice was low. "I burned them a long time ago." I could have sworn there was something like remorse-- remorse and shame--in his words. Ianthe only tsked. "Too bad. He might have paid handsomely for them." My limbs ached with the effort of not leaping over the table to smash her head into the marble floor. But I said to Tamlin, soothing and gentle, "I'll be fine out there." I touched his hand, brushing my thumb over the back of his palm. Held his stare. "Let's not start down this road again." As I pulled away, Tamlin merely fixed Lucien with a look, any trace of that guilt gone. His claws slid free, embedding in the scar-flecked wood of his chair's arm. "Be careful." None of us pretended it was anything but a threat. It was a two-day ride, but took us only a day to get there with winnowing-walking-winnowing. We could manage a few miles at a time, but Dagdan was slower than I'd anticipated, given that he had to carry his sister and Jurian. I didn't fault him for it. With each of us bearing another, the drain was considerable. Lucien and I both bore a sentry, minor lords' sons who had been trained to be polite and watchful. Supplies, as a result, were limited. Including tents. By the time we made it to the cleft in the wall, darkness was falling. The few supplies we'd hauled also had encumbered our winnowing through the world, and I let the sentries erect the tents for us, ever the lady keen to be waited on. Our dinner around the small fire was near-silent, none of us bothering to speak, save for Jurian, who questioned the sentries endlessly about their training. The twins retreated to their own tent after they'd picked at the meat sandwiches we'd packed, frowning at them as if they were full of maggots instead, and Jurian wandered off into the woods soon after, claiming he wanted a walk before he retired. I hauled myself into the canvas tent when the fire was dying out, the space barely big enough for Lucien and me to sleep shoulder to shoulder. His red hair gleamed in the faint firelight a moment later as he shoved through the flaps and swore. "Maybe I should sleep out there." I rolled my eyes. "Please." A wary, considering glance as he knelt and removed his boots. "You know Tamlin can be ... sensitive about things." "He can also be a pain in my ass," I snapped, and slithered under the blankets. "If you yield to him on every bit of paranoia and territorialism, you'll just make it worse." Lucien unbuttoned his jacket but remained mostly dressed as he slid onto his sleeping roll. "I think it's made worse because you two haven't ... I mean, you haven't, right?" I stiffened, tugging the blanket higher onto my shoulders. "No. I don't want to be touched like that--not for a while." His silence was heavy--sad. I hated the lie, hated it for how filthy it felt to wield it. "I'm sorry," he said. And I wondered what else he was apologizing for as I faced him in the darkness of our tent. "Isn't there some way to get out of this deal with Hybern?" My words were barely louder than the murmuring embers outside. "I'm back, I'm safe. We could find some way around it" "No. The King of Hybern crafted his bargain with Tamlin too cleverly, too clearly. Magic bound them--magic will strike him if he does not allow Hybern into these lands." "In what way? Kill him?" Lucien's sigh ruffled my hair. "It will claim his own powers, maybe kill him. Magic is all about balance. It's why he couldn't interfere with your bargain with Rhysand. Even the person who tries to sever the bargain faces consequences. If he'd kept you here, the magic that bound you to Rhys might have come to claim his life as payment for yours. Or the life of someone else he cared about. It's old magic--old and strange. It's why we avoid bargains unless it's necessary: even the scholars at the Day Court don't know how it works. Believe me, I've asked." "For me--you asked them for me." "Yes. I went last winter to inquire about breaking your bargain with Rhys." "Why didn't you tell me?" "I--we didn't want to give you false hope. And we didn't dare let Rhysand get wind of what we were doing, in case he found a way to interfere. To stop it." "So Ianthe pushed Tamlin to Hybern instead." "He was frantic. The scholars at the Day Court worked too slowly. I begged him for more time, but you'd already been gone for months. He wanted to act, not wait--despite that letter you sent. Because of that letter you sent. I finally told him to go ahead with it after--after that day in the forest." I turned onto my back, staring at the sloped ceiling of the tent. "How bad was it?" I asked quietly. "You saw your room. He trashed it, the study, his bedroom. He--he killed the sentries who'd been on guard. After he got the last bit of information from them. He executed them in front of everyone in the manor." My blood chilled. "You didn't stop him." "I tried. I begged him for mercy. He didn't listen. He couldn't listen." "The sentries didn't try to stop him, either?" "They didn't dare. Feyre, he's a High Lord. He's a different breed." I wondered if he'd say the same thing if he knew what I was. "We were backed into a corner with no options. None. It was either go to war with the Night Court and Hybern, or ally with Hybern, let them try to stir up trouble, and then use that alliance to our own advantage further down the road." "What do you mean," I breathed. But Lucien realized what he'd said, and hedged, "We have enemies in every court. Having Hybern's alliance will make them think twice." Liar. Trained, clever liar. I loosed a heaving, sleepy breath. "Even if they're now our allies," I mumbled, "I still hate them." A snort. "Me too." "Get up." Blinding sunlight cut into the tent, and I hissed. The order was drowned out by Lucien's snarl as he sat up. "Out," he ordered Jurian, who looked us over once, sneered, and stalked away. I'd rolled onto Lucien's bedroll at some point, any schemes indeed second to my most pressing demand--warmth. But I had no doubt Jurian would tuck away the information to throw in Tamlin's face when we returned: we'd shared a tent, and had been very cozy upon awakening. I washed in the nearby stream, my body stiff and aching from a night on the ground, with or without the help of a bedroll. Brannagh was prowling for the stream by the time I'd finished. The princess gave me a cold, thin smile. "I'd pick Beron's son, too." I stared at the princess beneath lowered brows. She shrugged, her smile growing. "Autumn Court males have fire in their blood--and they fuck like it, too." "I suppose you know from experience?" A chuckle. "Why do you think I had so much fun in the War?" I didn't bother to hide my disgust. Lucien caught me cringing at him when her words replayed for the tenth time an hour later, while we hiked the half mile toward the crack in the wall. "What?" he demanded. I shook my head, trying not to imagine Elain subject to that ae fire. "Nothing," I said, just as Jurian swore ahead. We were both moving at his barked curse--and then broke into a run at the sound of a sword whining free of its sheath. Leaves and branches whipped at me, but then we were at the wall, that invisible, horrible marker humming and throbbing in my head. And staring right at us through the hole were three Children of the Blessed. <|title|>Chapter 7 <|startofchapter|>Brannagh and Dagdan looked like they'd just found second breakfast waiting for them. Jurian had his sword out, the two young women and one young man gaping between him and the others. Then at us, their eyes widening further as they noted Lucien's cruel beauty. They dropped to their knees. "Masters and Mistresses," they beseeched us, their silver jewelry glinting in the dappled sunlight through the leaves. "You have found us on our journey." The two royals smiled so broadly I could see all of their too-white teeth. Jurian, for once, seemed torn before he snapped, "What are you doing here?" The dark-haired girl at the front was lovely, her honey-gold skin flushed as she lifted her head. "We have come to dwell in the immortal lands; we have come as tribute." Jurian cut cold, hard eyes to Lucien. "Is this true?" Lucien stared him down. "We accept no tribute from the human lands. Least of all children." Never mind that the three of them appeared only a few years younger than myself. "Why don't you come through," Brannagh cooed, "and we can ... enjoy ourselves." She was indeed sizing up the brown- haired young man and the other girl, her hair a ruddy brown, face sharp but interesting. From the way Dagdan was leering at the beautiful girl in front, I knew he'd silently made his claim already. I shoved in front of them and said to the three mortals, "Get out. Go back to your villages, back to your families. You cross this wall, and you will die." They balked, rising to their feet, faces taut with fear--and awe. "We have come to live in peace." "There is no such thing here. There is only death for your kind." Their eyes slid to the immortals behind me. The dark-haired girl blushed at Dagdan's intent stare, seeing the High Fae beauty and none of the predator. So I struck. The wall was a screeching, terrible vise, crushing my magic, battering my head. But I speared my power through that gap, and slammed into their minds. Too hard. The young man flinched a bit. So soft--defenseless. Their minds yielded like butter melting on my tongue. I beheld pieces of their lives like shards in a broken mirror, flashing every which way: the dark-haired girl was rich, educated, headstrong--had wanted to escape an arranged marriage and believed Prythian was a better option. The ruddy-haired girl had known nothing but poverty and her father's fists, which had turned more violent after they'd ended her mother's life. The young man had sold himself on the streets of a large village until the Children had come one day and offered him something better. I worked quickly. Neatly. I was finished before three heartbeats had passed, before Brannagh had even drawn breath to say, "There is no death here. Only pleasure, if you are willing." Even if they weren't willing, I wanted to add. But the three of them now blinked--balking. Beholding us for what we were: deadly, merciless. The truth behind the spun stories. "We--perhaps have ... made a mistake," their leader said, retreating a step. "Or perhaps this was fate," Brannagh countered with a snake's smile. They kept backing away. Kept seeing the histories I'd planted into their minds--that we were here to hurt and kill them, that we had done so with all their friends, that we'd use and discard them. I showed them the naga, the Bogge, the Middengard Wyrm; I showed them Clare and the golden- haired queen, skewered on that lamppost. The memories I gave them became stories they had ignored--but now understood with us before them. "Come here," Dagdan ordered. The words were kindling to their fear. The three of them turned, heavy pale robes twisting with them, and bolted for the trees. Brannagh tensed, as if she'd charge through the wall after them, but I gripped her arm and hissed, "If you pursue them, then you and I will have a problem." In emphasis, I dragged mental talons down her own shield. The princess snarled at me. But the humans were already gone. I prayed they'd listen to the other command I'd woven into their minds: to get on a boat, get as many friends as they could, and flee for the continent. To return here only when the war was over, and to warn as many humans as possible to get out before it was too late. The Hybern royals growled their displeasure, but I ignored it as I took up a spot against a tree and settled in to wait, not trusting them to stay on this side of the border. The royals resumed their work, stalking up and down the wall. A moment later, a male body came up beside mine. Not Lucien, I realized with a jolt, but did not so much as flinch. Jurian's eyes were on the place where the humans had been. "Thank you," he said, his voice rough. "I don't know what you're talking about," I replied, well aware that Lucien carefully watched from the shade of a nearby oak. Jurian gave me a knowing smirk and sauntered after Dagdan. They took all day. Whatever it was they were inspecting, whatever they were hunting for, the royals didn't inform us. And after the confrontation that morning, I knew pushing them into revealing it wouldn't happen. ld used up my allotted tolerance for the day. So we spent another night in the woods, which was precisely how I wound up sitting across the fire from Jurian after the twins had crawled into their tent and the sentries had taken up their watch positions. Lucien had gone to the stream to get more water, and I watched the flame dance amongst the logs, feeling it echo inside myself. Spearing my power through the wall had left me with a lingering, pounding headache all day, more than a bit dizzy. I had no doubt sleep would claim me fast and hard, but the fire was too warm and the spring night too brisk to willingly breach that long gap of darkness between the flame and my tent. "What happens to the ones who do make it through the wall?" Jurian asked, the hard panes of his face cast in flickering relief by the fire. I ground the heel of my boot into the grass. "I don't know. They never came back once they went over. But while Amarantha ruled, creatures prowled these woods, so ... I don't think it ended well. I've never encountered a mention of them being at any court." "Five hundred years ago, they'd have been flogged for that nonsense," Jurian said. "We were their slaves and whores and laborers for millennia--men and women fought and died so we'd never have to serve them again. Yet there they are, in those costumes, unaware of the danger, the history." "Careful, or you might not sound like Hybern's faithful A low, hateful laugh. "That's what you think I am, isn't it. His dog." "What's the end goal, then?" "I have unfinished business." "Miryam is dead." That madness danced again, replacing the rare lucidity. "Everything I did during the War, it was for Miryam and me. For our people to survive and one day be free. And she left me for that pretty-faced prince the moment I put my people before her." "I heard she left you because you became so focused on wringing information from Clythia that you lost sight of the real conflict." "Miryam told me to go ahead and fuck her for information. Told me to seduce Clythia until she'd sold out all of Hybern and the Loyalists. She had no qualms with that. None." "So all of this is to get Miryam back?" He stretched his long legs before him, crossing one ankle over the other. "It's to draw her out of her little nest with that winged prick and make her regret it." "You get a second shot at life and that's what you wish to do? Revenge?" Jurian smiled slowly. "Isn't that what you're doing?" Months of working with Rhys had me remembering to furrow my brow in confusion. "Against Rhys, I would one day like it." "That's what they all say, when they pretend he's a sadistic murderer. You forget I knew him in the War. You forget he risked his legion to save Miryam from our enemy's fort. That's how Amarantha captured him, you know. Rhys knew it was a trap--for Prince Drakon. So Rhys went against orders, and marched in his whole legion to get Miryam out. For his friend, for my lover--and for that bastard Drakon's sake. Rhys sacrificed his legion in the process, got all of them captured and tortured afterward. Yet everyone insists Rhysand is soulless, wicked. But the male I knew was the most decent of them all. Better than that prick-prince. You don't lose that quality, no matter the centuries, and Rhys was too smart to do anything but have the vilification of his character be a calculated move. And yet here you are--his mate. The most powerful High Lord in the world lost his mate, and has not yet come to claim her, even when she is defenseless in the woods." Jurian chuckled. "Perhaps that's because Rhysand has not lost you at all. But rather unleashed you upon us." I had never heard that story, but it seemed so like my mate that I knew the flames between us now smoldered in my eyes as I said, "You love to hear yourself talk, don't you." "Hybern will kill all of you," was all Jurian replied. Jurian wasn't wrong. Lucien woke me the next morning with a hand over my mouth, warning gleaming in his russet eye. I smelled it a moment later: the coppery tang of blood. We shoved into our clothes and boots, and I did a quick inventory of the weapons we'd squeezed into the tent with us. I had three daggers. Lucien had two, as well as an elegant short sword. Better than nothing, but not much. A glance from him communicated our plan well enough: play casual until we assessed the situation. I had a heartbeat to realize that this was perhaps the first time he and I had worked in tandem. Hunting had never been a joint effort, and Under the Mountain had been one of us looking out for the other--never a team. A unit. Lucien slid from the tent, limbs loose and ready to shift into a defensive position. He'd been trained, he once told me--at the Autumn Court and at this one. Like Rhys, he usually opted for words to win his battles, but I'd seen him and Tamlin in the practice ring. He knew how to handle a weapon. How to kill, if need be. I pushed past him, devouring the details of my surroundings as if I were a starving man at a feast. The forest was the same. Jurian was crouched before the fire, stirring the embers back to alertness, his face a hard, brooding mask. But the sentries--they were pale as Lucien stalked to them. I followed their shifting attention to the trees behind Jurian. No sign of the royals. The blood-- A coppery tang, yes. But laced with earth and marrow and --rot. Mortality. I stormed for the trees and dense brush. "You're too late," Jurian said as I passed him, still poking the embers. "They finished two hours ago." Lucien was on my heels as I shoved into the brambles, thorns tearing at my hands. The Hybern royals hadn't bothered to clean up their mess. From what was left of the three bodies, their shredded pale robes like fallen ashes through the small clearing, Dagdan and Brannagh must have shut out their screams with some sort of shield. Lucien swore. "They went through the wall last night. To hunt them down." Even with hours separating them, the royals were Fae-- swift, immortal. The three Children of the Blessed would have tired after running, would have camped somewhere. Blood was already drying on the grass, on the trunks of the surrounding trees. Hybern's brand of torture wasn't very creative: Clare, the golden queen, and these three ... A similar mutilating and torment. I unfastened my cloak and carefully laid it over the biggest remains of them I could find: the torso of the young man, clawed up and bloodless. His face was still etched in pain. Flame heated at my fingertips, begging me to burn them, to give them at least that sort of burial. But-- "Do you think it was for sport, or to send us a message?" Lucien laid his own cloak across the remains of the two young women. His face was as serious as I'd ever seen it. "I think they aren't accustomed to being denied. I'd call this an immortal temper tantrum." I closed my eyes, trying to calm my roiling stomach. "You aren't to blame," he added. "They could have killed them out in the mortal lands, but they brought them here. To make a statement about their power." He was right. The Children of the Blessed would have been dead even if I hadn't interfered. "They're threatened," I mused. "And proud to a fault." I toed the blood-soaked grass. "Do we bury them?" Lucien considered. "It sends a message--that we're willing to clean up their messes." I surveyed the clearing again. Considered everything at stake. "Then we send another sort of message." <|title|>Chapter 8 <|startofchapter|>Tamlin paced in front of the hearth in his study, every turn as sharp as a blade. "They are our allies," he growled at me, at Lucien, both of us seated in armchairs flanking the mantel. "They're monsters," I countered. "They butchered three innocents." "And you should have left it alone for me to deal with." Tamlin heaved a jagged breath. "Not retaliated like children." He threw a glare in Lucien's direction. "I expected better from you. "But not from me?" I asked quietly. Tamlin's green eyes were like frozen jade. "You have a personal connection to those people. He does not." "That's the sort of thinking," I snapped, clutching the armrests, "that has allowed for a wall to be the only solution between our two peoples; for the Fae to look at these sorts of murders and not care." I knew the guards outside could hear. Knew anyone walking by could hear. "The loss of any life on either side is a personal connection. Or is it only High Fae lives that matter to you?" Tamlin stopped short. And snarled at Lucien, "Get out. PH deal with you later." "Don't you talk to him like that," I hissed, shooting to my feet. "You have jeopardized this alliance with that stunt you two pulled--" "Good. They can burn in Aell for all I care!" I shouted. Lucien flinched. "You sent the Bogge after them!" Tamlin roared. I didn't so much as blink. And I knew the sentries had heard indeed by the cough of one outside--a sound of muffled shock. And I made sure those sentries could still hear as I said, "They terrorized those humans--made them suffer. I figured the Bogge was one of the few creatures that could return the favor." Lucien had tracked it down--and we'd lured it, carefully, over hours, back to that camp. Right to where Dagdan and Brannagh had been gloating over their kill. They'd managed to get away--but only after what had sounded like a good bit of screaming and fighting. Their faces remained bloodless even hours later, their eyes still brimming with hate whenever they deigned to look at us. Lucien cleared his throat. Stood as well. "Tam--those humans were barely more than children. Feyre gave the royals an order to stand down. They ignored it. If we let Hybern walk all over us, we stand to lose more than their alliance. The Bogge reminded them that we aren't without our claws, too." Tamlin didn't take his eyes off me as he said to Lucien, "Get. Out." There was enough violence in the words that neither Lucien nor I objected this time as he slipped from the room and shut the double doors behind him. I speared my power into the hall, sensing him sitting on the foot of the stairs. Listening. As the six sentries in the hall were listening. I said to Tamlin, my back ramrod straight, "You don't get to speak to me like that. You promised you wouldn't act this way. "You have no idea what's at risk--" "Don't you talk down to me. Not after what I went through to get back here, to you. To our people. You think any of us are happy to be working with Hybern? You think I don't see it in their faces? The question of whether I am worth the dishonor of it?" His breathing turned ragged again. Good, I wanted to urge him. Good. "You sold us out to get me back," I said, low and cold. "You whored us out to Hybern. Forgive me if I am now trying to regain some of what we lost." Claws slid free. A feral growl rippled out of him. "They hunted down and butchered those humans for sport," I went on. "You might be willing to get on your knees for Hybern, but I certainly am not." He exploded. Furniture splintered and went flying, windows cracked and shattered. And this time, I did not shield myself. The worktable slammed into me, throwing me against the bookshelf, and every place where flesh and bone met wood barked and ached. My knees slammed into the carpeted floor, and Tamlin was instantly in front of me, hands shaking-- The doors burst open. "What have you done," Lucien breathed, and Tamlin's face was the picture of devastation as Lucien shoved him aside. He let Lucien shove him aside and help me stand. Something wet and warm slid down my cheek--blood, from the scent of it. "Let's get you cleaned up," Lucien said, an arm around my shoulders as he eased me from the room. I barely heard him over the ringing in my ears, the slight spinning to the world. The sentries--Bron and Hart, two of Tamlin's favorite lord- warriors among them--were gaping, attention torn between the wrecked study and my face. With good reason. As Lucien led me past a gilded hall mirror, I beheld what had drawn such horror. My eyes were glassy, my face pallid--save for the scratch just beneath my cheekbone, perhaps two inches long and leaking blood. Little scratches peppered my neck, my hands. But I willed that cleansing, healing power--that of the High Lord of Dawn --to keep from seeking them out. From smoothing them away. "Feyre," Tamlin breathed from behind us. I halted, aware of every eye that watched. "I'm fine," I whispered. "I'm sorry." I wiped at the blood dribbling down my cheek. "I'm fine," I told him again. No one, not even Tamlin, looked convinced. And if I could have painted that moment, I would have named it A Portrait in Snares and Baiting. Rhysand sent word down the bond the second I was soaking in the bathtub. Are you hurt? The question was faint, the bond quieter and tenser than it had been days ago. Sore, but fine. Nothing I can't handle. Though my injuries still lingered. And showed no signs of a speedy healing. Perhaps I'd been too good at keeping those healing powers at bay. The reply was a long time coming. Then it came all at once, as if he wanted to cram every word in before the difficulty of the distance silenced us. I know better than to tell you to be careful, or to come home. But I want you home. Soon. And I want him dead for putting a hand on you. Even with the entirety of the land between us, his rage rippled down the bond. I answered, my tone soothing, dry, Technically, his magic touched me, not his hand. The bathwater was cold by the time his reply came through. I'm glad you have a sense of humor about this. I certainly don't. I sent back an image of me sticking out my tongue at him. My clothes were back on when his answer arrived. Like mine, it was wordless, a mere image. Like mine, Rhysand's tongue was out. But it was occupied with doing something else. I made a point to take a ride the next day. Made sure it was when Bron and Hart were on duty, and asked them to escort me. They didn't say much, but I felt their assessing glances at my every wince as we rode the worn paths through the spring wood. Felt them study the cut on my face, the bruises beneath my clothes that had me hissing every now and then. Still not fully healed to my surprise--though I supposed it worked to my advantage. Tamlin had begged my forgiveness at dinner yesterday-- and I'd given it to him. But Lucien hadn't spoken to him all evening. Jurian and the Hybern royals had sulked at the delay after I'd quietly admitted my bruises made it too difficult to accompany them to the wall. Tamlin hadn't possessed the nerve to suggest they go without me, to rob me of that duty. Not when he saw the purplish markings and knew that if they were on a human, I might have been dead. And the royals, after Lucien and I had sent the Bogge's invisible malice after them, had backed off. For now. I kept my shields up--around myself and the others, the strain now a constant headache that had any extra sort of magic feeling feeble and thin. The reprieve on the border hadn't done much --no, it'd made the strain worse after I'd sent my power through the wall. I'd invited Ianthe to the house, subtly requesting her comforting presence. She arrived knowing the full details of what had transpired in that study--letting it conveniently slip that Tamlin had confessed it to her, pleading for absolution from the Mother and Cauldron and whoever else. I prattled about my own forgiveness to her that evening, and made a show of taking her good counsel, telling the courtiers and others at our crowded table that night how lucky we were to have Tamlin and Janthe guarding our lands. Honestly, I don't know how none of them connected it. How none of them saw my words as not a strange coincidence but a dare. A threat. That last little nudge. Especially when seven naga broke into the estate grounds just past midnight. They were dispatched before they reached the house--an attack halted by a Cauldron-sent warning vision from none other than Ianthe herself. The chaos and screaming woke the estate. I remained in my room, guards beneath my windows and outside my door. Tamlin himself, blood-drenched and panting, came to inform me that the grounds were again secure. That the naga had been found with the keys to the gate, and the sentry who had lost them would be dealt with in the morning. A freak accident, a final show of power from a tribe that had not gone gently after Amarantha's reign. All of us saved from further harm by Ianthe. We all gathered outside the barracks the next morning, Lucien's face pallid and drawn, purple smudges beneath his glazed eyes. He hadn't returned to his room last night. Beside me, the Hybern royals and Jurian were silent and grim as Tamlin paced before the sentry strung up between two posts. "You were entrusted with guarding this estate and its people," Tamlin said to the shuddering male, already stripped down to his pants. "You were found not only asleep at the gate last night, but it was your set of keys that originally went missing." Tamlin snarled softly. "Do you deny this?" "I--I never fall asleep. It's never happened until now. I must have just nodded off for a minute or two," the sentry stammered, the ropes restraining him groaning as he strained against them. "You jeopardized the lives of everyone in this manor." And it could not go unpunished. Not with the Hybern royals here, seeking any sign of weakness. Tamlin held out a hand. Bron, stone-faced, approached to give him a whip. All the sentries, his most trusted warriors, shifted about. Some outright glaring at Tamlin, some trying not to watch what was about to unfold. I grabbed Lucien's hand. It wasn't entirely for show. Ianthe stepped forward, hands folded over her stomach. "Twenty lashes. And one more, for the Cauldron's forgiveness." The guards turned baleful eyes toward her now. Tamlin unfurled the whip onto the dirt. I made my move. Slid my power into the bound sentry's mind and freed the memory I'd coiled up tightly in his head-- freed his tongue, too. "It was her," he panted, jerking his chin to Ianthe. "She took the keys." Tamlin blinked--and everyone in that courtyard looked right to Ianthe. Her face didn't so much as flinch at the accusation--the truth he'd flung her way. I'd been waiting to see how she'd counter my showing of power at the solstice, tracking her movements that entire day and night. Within moments of my leaving the party she'd gone to the barracks, used some glimmer of power to lull him to sleep, and taken his keys. Then planted her warnings about the naga's impending attacks ... after she gave the creatures the keys to the gates. So she could sound the alarm last night. So she could save us from a real threat. Clever idea--had it not played right into everything I'd laid out. Ianthe said smoothly, "Why should I take the keys? I warned you of the attack." "You were at the barracks--I saw you that night," the sentry insisted, then turned pleading eyes to Tamlin. It wasn't fear of pain that propelled him, I realized. No, the lashings would have been deserved and earned and borne well. It was the fear of honor lost. "I would have thought one of your sentries, Tamlin, would have more dignity than to spread lies to spare himself from some fleeting pain." Ianthe's face remained serene as always. Tamlin, to his credit, studied the sentry for a long moment. I stepped forward. "I will hear his story." Some of the guards loosed sighs. Some looked at me with pity and affection. Ianthe lifted her chin. "With all due respect, milady, it is not your judgment to make." And there it was. The attempt to knock me down a few pegs. Just because it would make her see red, I ignored her completely and said to the sentry, "I will hear your story." I kept my focus on him, even as I counted my breaths, even as I prayed that Ianthe would take the bait-- "You'll take the word of a sentry over that of a High Priestess?" My disgust at her blurted words wasn't entirely feigned-- even though hiding my faint smile was an effort. The guards shifted on their feet at the insult, the tone. Even if they had not already trusted their fellow sentry, from her words alone, they realized her guilt. I looked to Tamlin then--saw his eyes sharpen as well. With understanding. Too many protests from Ianthe. Oh, he was well aware that Ianthe had perhaps planned that naga attack to reclaim some shred of power and influence--as a savior of these people. Tamlin's mouth tightened in disapproval. I'd given them both a length of rope. I supposed now would be the moment to see whether they'd hang themselves with it. I dared one more step forward, upturning my palms to Tamlin. "Perhaps it was a mistake. Don't take it from his hide --or his honor. Let's hear him out." Tamlin's eyes softened a fraction. He remained silent-- considering. But behind me, Brannagh snorted. "Pathetic," she murmured, though everyone could hear it. Weak. Vulnerable. Ripe for conquest. I saw the words slam through Tamlin's face, as if they were shutting doors in their wake. There was no other interpretation--not for Tamlin. But Ianthe assessed me, standing before the crowd, the influence I'd made so very clear I was capable of stealing. If she admitted guilt ... whatever she had left would come crumbling down. Tamlin opened his mouth, but Ianthe cut him off. "There are laws to be obeyed," she told me, gently enough that I wanted to drag my nails down her face. "Traditions. He has broken our trust, has let our blood be spilled for his carelessness. Now he seeks to accuse a High Priestess of his failings. It cannot go unpunished." She nodded to Tamlin. "Twenty-one lashes, High Lord." I glanced between them, my mouth going dry. "Please. Just listen to him." The guard hanging between the posts had such hope and gratitude in his eyes. In this ... in this, my revenge edged toward something oily, something foreign and queasy. He would heal from the pain, but the blow to his honor ... It'd take a little piece out of mine as well. Tamlin stared at me, then Ianthe. Then glanced to the smirking Hybern royals--to Jurian, who crossed his arms, his face unreadable. And like I'd gambled, Tamlin's need for control, for strength, won out. Ianthe was too important an ally to risk isolating. The word of a low sentry ... no, it did not matter as much as hers. Tamlin turned to the sentry tied to the posts. "Put the bit in," he quietly ordered Bron. There was a heartbeat of hesitation from Bron--as if the shock of Tamlin's order had rippled through him. Through all the guards. Siding with Ianthe--over them. His sentries. Who had gone over the wall, again and again, to try to break that curse for him. Who had gladly done it, gladly died, hunted down as those wolves, for him. And the wolf I'd felled, Andras ... He'd gone willingly, too. Tamlin had sent them all over, and not all of them had come back. They had gone willingly, yet this ... this was his thanks. His gratitude. His trust. But Bron did as commanded, sliding the small piece of wood into the now-trembling sentry's mouth. Judging by the barely concealed disdain in the guards' faces, at least they were aware of what had occurred--or what they believed had occurred: the High Priestess had orchestrated this entire attack to cast herself as a savior, offering up the reputation of one of their own as the asking price. They had no idea--none--that I'd goaded her into it, pushed and pushed her to reveal just what a snake she was. How little anyone without a title meant to her. How Tamlin listened to her without question--to a fault. It wasn't much of an act when I put a hand to my throat, backing up a step, then another, until Lucien's warmth was against me, and I leaned fully into him. The sentries were sizing up Ianthe, the royals. Tamlin had always been one of them--fought for them. Until now. Until Hybern. Until he put these foreign monsters before them. Until he put a scheming High Priestess before them. Tamlin's eyes were on us, on the hand Lucien put on my arm to steady me, as he drew back the whip. The thunderous crack as it cleaved the air snapped through the barracks, the estate. Through the very foundations of the court. <|title|>Chapter 9 <|startofchapter|>Ianthe wasn't done. I knew it--braced myself for it. She didn't flit back to her temple a few miles away. Rather, she remained at the house, seizing her chance to worm her way closer to Tamlin. She believed she'd gained a foothold, that her declaration of justice served at the bloody end of the whipping hadn't been anything but a final slap in the face to the guards who watched. And when that sentry had sagged from his bindings, when the others came to gently untie him, Ianthe merely ushered the Hybern party and Tamlin into the manor for lunch. But I'd remained at the barracks, tending to the groaning sentry, drawing away bloodied bowls of water while the healer quietly patched him up. Bron and Hart personally escorted me back to the estate hours later. I thanked them each by name. Then apologized that I hadn't been able to prevent it--Ianthe's scheming or the unjust punishment of their friend. I meant every word, the crack of the whip still echoing in my ears. Then they spoke the words I'd been waiting for. They were sorry they hadn't stopped any of it, either. Not just today. But the bruises now fading--at last. The other incidents. If I had asked them, they would have handed me their own knives to slit their throats. The next evening, I was hurrying back to my room to change for dinner when Ianthe made her next move. She was to come with us to the wall tomorrow morning. Her, and Tamlin, too. If we were all to be a united front, she'd declared over dinner, then she wished to see the wall herself. The Hybern royals didn't care. But Jurian winked at me, as if he, too, saw the game in motion. I packed my own bags that night. Alis entered right before bed, a third pack in her hands. "Since it's a longer trip, I brought you supplies." Even with Tamlin joining us, it was too many people for him to winnow us directly. So we'd go, as we'd done before, in segments. A few miles at a time. Alis laid the pack she'd prepared beside my own. Picked up the brush on the vanity and beckoned me to sit on the cushioned bench before it. I obeyed. For a few minutes, she brushed my hair in silence. Then she said, "When you leave tomorrow, I leave, too." I lifted my eyes to hers in the mirror. "My nephews are packed, the ponies ready to take us back to Summer Court territory at last. It has been too long since I saw my home," she said, though her eyes shone. "I know the feeling," was all I said. "I wish you well, lady," Alis said, setting down the brush and beginning to braid back my hair. "For the rest of your days, however long they may be, I wish you well." I let her finish the plait, then pivoted on the bench to grip her thin fingers in mine. "Don't ever tell Tarquin you know me well." Her brows rose. "There is a blood ruby with my name on it," I clarified. Even her tree-bark skin seemed to blanch. She understood it well enough: I was a hunted enemy of the Summer Court. Only my death would be accepted as payment for my crimes. Alis squeezed my hand. "Blood rubies or no, you will always have one friend in the Summer Court." My throat bobbed. "And you will always have one in mine," I promised her. She knew which court I meant. And did not look afraid. The sentries did not glance at Tamlin, or so much as speak to him unless absolutely necessary. Bron, Hart, and three others were to join us. They had spotted me checking on their friend before dawn--a courtesy I knew none of the others had extended. Winnowing felt like wading through mud. In fact, my powers had become more of a burden than a help. I had a throbbing headache by noon, and spent the last leg of the journey dizzy and disoriented as we winnowed again and again. We arrived and set up camp in near-silence. I quietly, shyly asked to share a tent with Ianthe instead of Tamlin, appearing eager to mend the rift the whipping had torn between us. But I did it more to spare Lucien from her attention than to keep Tamlin at bay. Dinner was made and eaten, bedrolls laid out, and Tamlin ordered Bron and Hart on the first watch. Lying beside Ianthe without slitting her throat was an exercise in patience and control. But whenever the knife beneath my pillow seemed to whisper her name, I'd remind myself of my friends. The family that was alive--healing in the North. I repeated their names silently, over and over into the darkness. Rhysand. Mor. Cassian. Amren. Azriel. Elain. Nesta. I thought of how I had last seen them, so bloodied and hurting. Thought of Cassian's scream as his wings were shredded; of Azriel's threat to the king as he advanced on Mor. Nesta, fighting every step toward the Cauldron. My goal was bigger than revenge. My purpose greater than personal retribution. Dawn broke, and I found my palm curled around the hilt of my knife anyway. I drew it out as I sat up, staring down at the sleeping priestess. The smooth column of her neck seemed to glow in the early-morning sun leaking through the tent flaps. I weighed the knife in my hand. I wasn't sure I'd been born with the ability to forgive. Not for terrors inflicted on those I loved. For myself, I didn't care --not nearly as much. But there was some fundamental pillar of steel in me that could not bend or break in this. Could not stomach the idea of letting these people get away with what they'd done. Ianthe's eyes opened, the teal as limpid as her discarded circlet. They went right to the knife in my hand. Then to my face. "You can't be too careful while sharing a camp with enemies," I said. I could have sworn something like fear shone in her eyes. "Hybern is not our enemy," she said a tad breathlessly. From her paleness as I left the tent, I knew my answering smile had done its job well. Lucien and Tamlin showed the twins where the crack in the wall lay. And as they had done with the first two, they spent hours surveying it, the surrounding land. I kept close this time, watching them, my presence now deemed relatively unthreatening if not a nuisance. We'd played our little power games, established I could bite if I wished, but we'd tolerate each other. "Here," Brannagh murmured to Dagdan, jerking her chin to the invisible divider. The only markings were the different trees: on our side, they were the bright, fresh green of spring. On the other, they were dark, broad, curling slightly with heat --the height of summer. "The first one was better," Dagdan countered. I sat atop a small boulder, peeling an apple with a paring knife. "Closer to the western coast, too," he added to his twin. "This is closer to the continent--to the strait." I sliced deep into the flesh of the apple, carving out a hunk of white meat. "Yes, but we'd have more access to the High Lord's supplies." Said High Lord was currently off with Jurian, hunting for food more filling than the sandwiches we'd packed. Ianthe had gone to a nearby spring to pray, and I had no idea whatsoever where Lucien or the sentries were. Good. Easier for me as I shoved the apple slice into my mouth and said around it, "I say go for this one." They twisted toward me, Brannagh sneering and Dagdan's brows high. "What do you know of any of it?" Brannagh demanded. I shrugged, cutting another piece of apple. "You two talk louder than you realize." Shared accusatory glares between them. Proud, arrogant, cruel. I'd been taking their measure this fortnight. "Unless you want to risk the other courts having time to rally and intercepting you before you can cross to the strait, I'd pick this one. Brannagh rolled her eyes. I went on, rambling and bored, "But what do I know? You two have squatted on a little island for five hundred years. Clearly you know more about Prythian and moving armies than me." Brannagh hissed, "This is not about armies, so I will trust you to keep that mouth shut until we have use for you." I snorted. "You mean to tell me all of this nonsense hasn't been to find a place to break through the wall and use the Cauldron to also transport the mass of your armies here?" She laughed, swinging her dark curtain of hair over a shoulder. "The Cauldron is not for transporting grunt armies. It is for remaking worlds. It is for bringing down this hideous wall and reclaiming what we were." I merely crossed my legs. "I'd think that with an army of ten thousand you wouldn't need any magical objects to do your dirty work." "Our army is ten times that, girl," Brannagh sneered. "And twice that number if you count our allies in Vallahan, Montesere, and Rask." Two hundred thousand. Mother save us. "You've certainly been busy all these years." I surveyed them, utterly nonplussed. "Why not strike when Amarantha had the island?" "The king had not yet found the Cauldron, despite years of searching. It served his purposes to let her be an experiment for how we might break these people. And served as good motivation for our allies on the continent to join us, knowing what would await them." I finished off my apple and chucked the core into the woods. They watched it fly like two hounds tracking a pheasant. "So they're all going to converge here? I'm supposed to play hostess to so many soldiers?" "Our own force will take care of Prythian before uniting with the others. Our commanders are preparing for it as we speak." "You must think you stand a shot at losing if you're bothering to use the Cauldron to help you win." "The Cauldron is victory. It will wipe this world clean again." I lifted my brows in irreverent cynicism. "And you need this exact spot to unleash it?" "This exact spot," Dagdan said, a hand on the hilt of his sword, "exists because a person or object of mighty power passed through it. The Cauldron will study the work they've already done--and magnify it until the wall collapses entirely. It is a careful, complex process, and one I doubt your mortal mind can grasp." "Probably. Though this mortal mind did manage to solve Amarantha's riddle--and destroy her." Brannagh merely turned back to the wall. "Why do you think Hybern let her live for so long in these lands? Better to have someone else do his dirty work." I had what I needed. Tamlin and Jurian were still off hunting, the royals were preoccupied, and I'd sent the sentries to fetch me more water, claiming that some of my bruises still ached and I wanted to make a poultice for them. They'd looked positively murderous at that. Not at me--but at who had given me those bruises. Who had picked Ianthe over them--and Hybern over their honor and people. I'd brought three packs, but I'd only need one. The one I'd carefully repacked with Alis's new supplies, now tucked beside everything I'd anticipated needing to get clear of them and go. The one I'd brought with me on every trip out to the wall, just in case. And now ... I had numbers, I had a purpose, I had a specific location, and the names of foreign territories. But more than that, I had a people who had lost faith in their High Priestess. I had sentries who were beginning to rebel against their High Lord. And as a result of those things, I had Hybern royals doubting the strength of their allies here. I'd primed this court to fall. Not from outside forces--but its own internal warring. And I had to be clear of it before it happened. Before the last sliver of my plan fell into place. The party would return without me. And to maintain that illusion of strength, Tamlin and Ianthe would lie about it-- where I'd gone. And perhaps a day or two after that, one of these sentries would reveal the news, a carefully sprung trap that I'd coiled into his mind like one of my snares. I'd fled for my life--after being nearly killed by the Hybern prince and princess. I'd planted images in his head of my brutalized body, the markings consistent with what Dagdan and Brannagh had already revealed to be their style. He'd describe them in detail--describe how he helped me get away before it was too late. How I ran for my life when Tamlin and Ianthe refused to intervene, to risk their alliance with Hybern. And when the sentry revealed the truth, no longer able to stomach keeping quiet when he saw how my sorry fate was concealed by Tamlin and Ianthe, just as Tamlin had sided with Ianthe the day he'd flogged that sentry ... When he described what Hybern had done to me, their Cursebreaker, their newly anointed Cauldron-blessed, before I'd fled for my life ... There would be no further alliance. For there would be no sentry or denizen of this court who would stand with Tamlin or Ianthe after this. After me. I ducked into my tent to grab my pack, my steps light and swift. Listening, barely breathing, I scanned the camp, the woods. A few seconds extra had me snatching Tamlin's bandolier of knives from where he'd left them inside his tent. They'd get in the way while using a bow and arrow, he'd explained that morning. Their weight was considerable as I slung it across my chest. Illyrian fighting knives. Home. I was going home. I didn't bother to look back at that camp as I slipped into the northern tree line. If I winnowed without stopping between leaps, I'd be at the foothills in an hour--and would vanish through one of the caves not long after that. I made it about a hundred yards into the cover of the trees before I halted. I heard Lucien first. "Back off." A low female laugh. Everything in me went still and cold at that sound. I'd heard it once before--in Rhysand's memory. Keep going. They were distracted, horrible as it was. Keep going, keep going, keep going. "I thought you'd seek me out after the Rite," Ianthe purred. They couldn't be more than thirty feet through the trees. Far enough away not to hear my presence, if I was quiet enough. "I was obligated to perform the Rite," Lucien snapped. "That night wasn't the product of desire, believe me." "We had fun, you and I." "I'm a mated male now." Every second was the ringing of my death knell. I'd primed everything to fall; I'd long since stopped feeling any sort of guilt or doubt about my plan. Not with Alis now safely away. And yet--and yet-- "You don't act that way with Feyre." A silk-wrapped threat. "You're mistaken." "Am I?" Twigs and leaves crunched, as if she was circling him. "You put your hands all over her." I had done my job too well, provoked her jealousy too much with every instance I'd found ways to get Lucien to touch me in her presence, in Tamlin's presence. "Do not touch me," he growled. And then I was moving. I masked the sound of my footfalls, silent as a panther as I stalked to the little clearing where they stood. Where Lucien stood, back against a tree--twin bands of blue stone shackled around his wrists. I'd seen them before. On Rhys, to immobilize his power. Stone hewn from Hybern's rotted land, capable of nullifying magic. And in this case ... holding Lucien against that tree as Ianthe surveyed him like a snake before a meal. She slid a hand over the broad panes of his chest, his stomach. And Lucien's eyes shot to me as I stepped between the trees, fear and humiliation reddening his golden skin. "That's enough," I said. Ianthe whipped her head to me. Her smile was innocent, simpering. But I saw her note the pack, Tamlin's bandolier. Dismiss them. "We were in the middle of a game. Weren't we, Lucien?" He didn't answer. And the sight of those shackles on him, however she'd trapped him, the sight of her hand still on his stomach-- "We'll return to the camp when we're done," she said, turning to him again. Her hand slid lower, not for his own pleasure, but simply to throw it in my face that she could-- I struck. Not with my knives or magic, but my mind. I ripped down the shield I'd kept up around her to avoid the twins' control--and slammed myself into her consciousness. A mask over a face of decay. That's what it was like to go inside that beautiful head and find such hideous thoughts inside it. A trail of males she'd used her power on or outright forced to bed, convinced of her entitlement to them. I pulled back against the tug of those memories, mastering myself. "Take your hands off him." She did. "Unshackle him." Lucien's skin drained of color as Ianthe obeyed me, her face queerly vacant, pliant. The blue stone shackles thumped to the mossy ground. Lucien's shirt was askew, the top button on his pants already undone. The roaring that filled my mind was so loud I could barely hear myself as I said, "Pick up that rock." Lucien remained pressed against that tree. And he watched in silence as Ianthe stooped to pick up a gray, rough rock about the size of an apple. "Put your right hand on that boulder." She obeyed, though a tremor went down her spine. Her mind thrashed and struggled against me, like a fish snared on a line. I dug my mental talons in deeper, and some inner voice of hers began screaming. "Smash your hand with the rock as hard as you can until I tell you to stop." The hand she'd put on him, on so many others. Ianthe brought the stone up. The first impact was a muffled, wet thud. The second was an actual crack. The third drew blood. Her arm rose and fell, her body shuddering with the agony. And I said to her very clearly, "You will never touch another person against their will. You will never convince yourself that they truly want your advances; that they're playing games. You will never know another's touch unless they initiate, unless it's desired by both sides." Thwack; crack, thud. "You will not remember what happened here. You will tell the others that you fell." Her ring finger had shifted in the wrong direction. "You are allowed to see a healer to set the bones. But not to erase the scarring. And every time you look at that hand, you are going to remember that touching people against their will has consequences, and if you do it again, everything you are will cease to exist. You will live with that terror every day, and never know where it originates. Only the fear of something chasing you, hunting you, waiting for you the instant you let your guard down." Silent tears of pain flowed down her face. "You can stop now." The bloodied rock tumbled onto the grass. Her hand was little more than cracked bones wrapped in shredded skin. "Kneel here until someone finds you." Ianthe fell to her knees, her ruined hand leaking blood onto her pale robes. "I debated slitting your throat this morning," I told her. "I debated it all last night while you slept beside me. I've debated it every single day since I learned you sold out my sisters to Hybern." I smiled a bit. "But I think this is a better punishment. And I hope you live a long, long life, Ianthe, and never know a moment's peace." I stared down at her for a moment longer, tying off the tapestry of words and commands I'd woven into her mind, and turned to Lucien. He'd fixed his pants, his shirt. His wide eyes slid from her to me, then to the bloodied stone. "The word you're looking for, Lucien," crooned a deceptively light female voice, "is daemati." We whirled toward Brannagh and Dagdan as they stepped into the clearing, grinning like wolves. <|title|>Chapter 10 <|startofchapter|>Brannagh ran her fingers through Ianthe's golden hair, clicking her tongue at the bloodied pulp cradled in her lap. "Going somewhere, Feyre?" I let my mask drop. "I have places to be," I told the Hybern royals, noting the flanking positions they were too casually establishing around me. "What could be more important than assisting us? You are, after all, sworn to assist our king." Time--biding their time until Tamlin returned from hunting with Jurian. Lucien shoved off the tree, but didn't come to my side. Something like agony flickered across his face as he finally noted the stolen bandolier, the pack on my shoulders. "I have no allegiance to you," I told Brannagh, even as Dagdan began to edge past my line of sight. "I am a free person, allowed to go where and when I will it." "Are you?" Brannagh mused, sliding a hand to her sword at her hip. I pivoted slightly to keep Dagdan from slipping into my blind spot. "Such careful plotting these weeks, such skilled maneuvering. You didn't seem to worry that we'd be doing the same." They weren't letting Lucien leave this clearing alive. Or at least with his mind intact. He seemed to realize it at the same moment I did, understanding that there was no way they'd reveal this without knowing they'd get away with it. "Take the Spring Court," I said, and meant it. "It's going to fall one way or another." Lucien snarled. I ignored him. "Oh, we intend to," Brannagh said, sword inching free of its dark sheath. "But then there's the matter of you." I thumbed free two of the Illyrian fighting knives. "Haven't you wondered at the headaches? How things seem a little muffled on certain mental bonds?" My powers had tired so swiftly, had become weaker and weaker these weeks-- Dagdan snorted and finally observed to his sister, "I'd give her about ten minutes before the apple sets in." Brannagh chuckled, toeing the blue stone shackle. "We gave the priestess the powder at first. Crushed faebane stone, ground so fine you couldn't see or scent or taste it in your food. She'd add a little at a time, nothing suspicious--not too much, lest it stifle all your powers at once." Unease began to clench my gut. "We've been daemati for a thousand years, girl," Dagdan sneered. "But we didn't even need to slip into her mind to get her to do our bidding. But you ... what a valiant effort you put up, trying to shield them all from us." Dagdan's mind speared for Lucien's, a dark arrow shot between them. I slammed up a shield between them. And my head--my very bones ached-- "What apple," I bit out. "The one you shoved down your throat an hour ago," Brannagh said. "Grown and tended in the king's personal garden, fed a steady diet of water laced with faebane. Enough to knock out your powers for a few days straight, no shackles required. And here you are, thinking no one had noticed you planned to vanish today." She clicked her tongue again. "Our uncle would be most displeased if we allowed that to happen." I was running out of borrowed time. I could winnow, but then I'd abandon Lucien to them if he somehow couldn't manage to himself with the faebane in his system from the food at the camp-- Leave him. I should and could leave him. But to a fate perhaps worse than death-- His russet eye gleamed. "Go." I made my choice. I exploded into night and smoke and shadow. And even a thousand years wasn't enough for Dagdan to adequately prepare as I winnowed in front of him and struck. I sliced through the front of his leather armor, not deep enough to kill, and as steel snagged on its plates, he twisted expertly, forcing me to either expose my right side or lose the knife-- I winnowed again. This time, Dagdan went with me. I was not fighting Hybern cronies unaware in the woods. I was not fighting the Attor and its ilk in the streets of Velaris. Dagdan was a Hybern prince--a commander. He fought like one. Winnow. Strike. Winnow. Strike. We were a black whirlwind of steel and shadow through the clearing, and months of Cassian's brutal training clicked into place as I kept my feet under me. I had the vague sense of Lucien gaping, even Brannagh taken aback by my show of skill against her brother. But Dagdan's blows weren't hard--no, they were precise and swift, but he didn't throw himself into it wholly. Buying time. Wearing me down until my body fully absorbed that apple and its power rendered me nearly mortal. So I hit him where he was weakest. Brannagh screamed as a wall of flame slammed into her. Dagdan lost his focus for all of a heartbeat. His roar as I sliced deep into his abdomen shook the birds from the trees. "You little bitch," he spat, dancing back from my next blow as the fire cleared and Brannagh was revealed on her knees. Her physical shield had been sloppy--she'd expected me to attack her mind. She was shuddering, gasping with agony. The reek of charred skin now drifted to us, directly from her right arm, her ribs, her thigh. Dagdan lunged for me again, and I brought up both of my knives to meet his blade. He didn't pull the blow this time. I felt its reverberation in every inch of my body. Felt the rising, stifling silence, too. I'd felt it once before-- that day in Hybern. Brannagh surged to her feet with a sharp cry. But Lucien was there. Her focus wholly on me, on taking from me the beauty I'd burned from her, Brannagh did not see him winnow until it was too late. Until Lucien's sword refracted the light of the sun leaking through the canopy. And then met flesh and bone. A tremor shuddered through the clearing--like some thread between the twins had been snipped as Brannagh's dark head thudded onto the grass. Dagdan screamed, launching himself at Lucien, winnowing across the fifteen feet between us. Lucien had barely heaved his blade out of Brannagh's severed neck when Dagdan was before him, sword shoving forward to ram through his throat. Lucien only had enough time to stumble back from Dagdan's killing blow. I had enough time to stop it. I parried Dagdan's blade aside with one knife, the male's eyes going wide as I winnowed between them--and punched the other into his eye. Right into the skull behind it. Bone and blood and soft tissue scraped and slid along the blade, Dagdan's mouth still open with surprise as I yanked out the knife. I let him fall atop his sister, the thud of flesh on flesh the only sound. I merely looked at Ianthe, my power guttering, a hideous ache building in my gut, and made my last command, amending my earlier ones. "You tell them I killed them. In self-defense. After they hurt me so badly while you and Tamlin did nothing. Even when they torture you for the truth, you say that I fled after I killed them--to save this court from their horrors." Blank, vacant eyes were my only answer. "Feyre." Lucien's voice was a hoarse rasp. I merely wiped my two knives on Dagdan's back before going to reclaim my fallen pack. "You're going back. To the Night Court." I shouldered my heavy pack and finally looked at him. "Yes." His tan face had paled. But he surveyed Ianthe, the two dead royals. "I'm going with you." "No," was all I said, heading for the trees. A cramp formed deep in my belly. I had to get away--had to use the last of my power to winnow to the hills. "You won't make it without magic," he warned me. I just gritted my teeth against the sharp pain in my abdomen as I rallied my strength to winnow to those distant foothills. But Lucien gripped my arm, halting me. "I'm going with you," he said again, face splattered with blood as bright as his hair. "I'm getting my mate back." There was no time for this argument. For the truth and debate and the answers I saw he desperately wanted. Tamlin and the others would have heard the shouting by now. "Don't make me regret this," I told him. Blood coated the inside of my mouth by the time we reached the foothills hours later. I was panting, my head throbbing, my stomach a twisting knot of aching. Lucien was barely better off, his winnowing as shaky as my own before we halted amongst the rolling green and he doubled over, hands braced on his knees. "It's--gone," he said, gasping for breath. "My magic--not an ember. They must have dosed all of us today." And given me a poisoned apple just to make sure it kept me down. My power pulled away from me like a wave reeling back from the shore. Only there was no return. It just went farther and farther out into a sea of nothing. I peered at the sun, now a hand's width above the horizon, shadows already thick and heavy between the hills. I took my bearings, sorting through the knowledge I'd compiled these weeks. I stepped northward, swaying. Lucien gripped my arm. "You're taking a door?" I slid aching eyes toward him. "Yes." The caves--doors, they called them--in those hollows led to other pockets of Prythian. I'd taken one straight Under the Mountain. I would now take one to get me home. Or as close to it as I could get. No door to the Night Court existed, here or anywhere. And I would not risk my friends by bringing them here to retrieve me. No matter that the bond between Rhys and me ... I couldn't so much as feel it. A numbness had spread through me. I needed to get out-- now. "The Autumn Court portal is that way." Warning and reproach. "I can't go into Summer. They'll kill me on sight." Silence. He released my arm. I swallowed, my throat so dry I could barely do so. "The only other door here leads Under the Mountain. We sealed off all the other entrances. If we go there, we could wind up trapped--or have to return." "Then we go to Autumn. And from there ..." I trailed off before I finished. Home. But Lucien gleaned it anyway. And seemed to realize then--that's what the Night Court was. Home. I could almost see the word in his russet eye as he shook his head. Later. I gave him a silent nod. Yes--later, we'd have it all out. "The Autumn Court will be as dangerous as Summer," he warned. "I just need somewhere to hide--to lie low until ... until we can winnow again." A faint buzzing and ringing filled my ears. And I felt my magic vanish entirely. "I know a place," Lucien said, walking toward the cave that would take us to his home. To the lands of the family who'd betrayed him as badly as this court had betrayed mine. We hurried through the hills, swift and silent as shadows. The cave to the Autumn Court had been left unguarded. Lucien looked at me over his shoulder as if to ask if I, too, had been responsible for the lack of guards who were always stationed here. I gave him another nod. I'd slid into their minds before we'd left, making sure this door would be left open. Cassian had taught me to always have a second escape route. Always. Lucien paused before the swirling gloom of the cave mouth, the blackness like a wyrm poised to devour us both. A muscle feathered in his jaw. I said, "Stay, if you want. What's done is done." For Hybern was coming--already here. I had debated it for weeks: whether it was better to claim the Spring Court for ourselves, or to let it fall to our enemies. But it could not remain neutral--a barrier between our forces in the North and the humans in the South. It would have been easy to call in Rhys and Cassian, to have the latter bring in an Illyrian legion to claim the territory when it was weakest after my own maneuverings. Depending on how much mobility Cassian had retained--if he was still healing. Yet then we'd hold one territory--with five other courts between us. Sympathy might have swayed for the Spring Court; others might have joined Hybern against us, considering our conquest here proof of our wickedness. But if Spring fell to Hybern ... We could rally the other courts to us. Charge as one from the North, drawing Hybern in close. "You were right," Lucien declared at last. "That girl I knew did die Under the Mountain." I wasn't sure if it was an insult. But I nodded all the same. "At least we can agree on that." I stepped into the awaiting cold and dark. Lucien fell into step beside me as we strode beneath the archway of carved, crude stone, our blades out as we left behind the warmth and green of eternal spring. And in the distance, so faint I thought I might have imagined it, a beast's roar cleaved the land. <|title|>Chapter 11 <|startofchapter|>The cold was what hit me first. Brisk, crisp cold, laced with loam and rotting things. In the twilight, the world beyond the narrow cave mouth was a latticework of red and gold and brown and green, the trees thick and old, the mossy ground strewn with rocks and boulders that cast long shadows. We emerged, blades out, barely breathing beyond a trickle of air. But there were no Autumn Court sentries guarding the entrance to Beron's realm--none that we could see or scent. Without my magic, I was blind again, unable to sweep a net of awareness through the ancient, vibrant trees to catch any traces of nearby Fae minds. Utterly helpless. That's how I'd been before. How I'd survived so long without it ... I didn't want to consider. We crept on cat-soft feet into the moss and stone and wood, our breath curling in front of us. Keep moving, keep striding north. Rhys would have realized by now that our bond had gone dark--was likely trying to glean whether I had planned for that. Whether it was worth the risk of revealing our scheming to find me. But until he did ... until he could hear me, find me ... I had to keep moving. So I let Lucien lead the way, wishing I'd at least been able to shift my eyes to something that could pierce the darkening wood. But my magic was still and frozen. A crutch I'd become too reliant upon. We picked our way through the forest, the chill deepening with each vanishing shaft of sunlight. We hadn't spoken since we'd entered that cave between courts. From the stiffness of his shoulders, the hard angle of his jaw as he moved on silent, steady feet, I knew only our need for stealth kept his simmering questions at bay. Night was fully overhead, the moon not yet risen, when he led us into another cave. I balked at the entrance. Lucien merely said, voice flat and as icy as the air, "It doesn't lead anywhere. It curves away in the back--it'll keep us out of sight." I let him go inside first nonetheless. Every limb and movement turned sluggish, aching. But I trailed him into the cave, and around the bend he'd indicated. Flint struck, and I found myself gazing at a makeshift camp of sorts. The candle Lucien had ignited sat on a natural stone ledge, and on the floor nearby lay three bedrolls and old blankets, crusted with leaves and cobwebs. A little fire pit lay in the sloped center of the space, the ceiling above it charred. No one had been here in months. Years. "I used to stay here while hunting. Before--I left," he said, examining a dusty, leather-bound book left on the stone ledge beside the candle. He set the tome down with a thump. "It's just for the night. We'll find something to eat in the morning." I only lifted the closest bedroll and smacked it a few times, leaves and clouds of dust flying off before I laid it upon the ground. "You truly planned this," he said at last. I sat on the bedroll and began sorting through my pack, hauling out the warmer clothes, food, and supplies Alis herself had placed within. "Yes." "That's all you have to say?" I sniffed at the food, wondering what was laced with faebane. It could be in everything. "It's too risky to eat," I admitted, evading his question. Lucien was having none of it. "I knew. I knew you were lying the moment you unleashed that light in Hybern. My friend at the Dawn Court has the same power--her light is identical. And it does not do whatever horseshit you lied about it doing." I shoved my pack off my bedroll. "Then why not tell him? You were his faithful dog in every other sense." His eye seemed to simmer. As if being in his own lands set that molten ore inside him rising to the surface, even with the damper on his power. "Glad to see the mask is off, at least." Indeed, I let him see it all--didn't alter or shape my face into anything but coldness. Lucien snorted. "I didn't tell him for two reasons. One, it felt like kicking a male already down. I couldn't take that hope away from him." I rolled my eyes. "Two," he snapped, "I knew if I was correct and called you on it, you'd find a way to make sure I never saw her." My nails dug into my palms hard enough to hurt, but I remained seated on the bedroll as I bared my teeth at him. "And that's why you're here. Not because it's right and he's always been wrong, but just so you can get what you think you're owed." "She is my mate and in my enemy's hands--" "I've made no secret from the start that Elain is safe and cared for." "And I'm supposed to believe you." "Yes," I hissed. "You are. Because if I believed for one moment that my sisters were in danger, no High Lord or king would have kept me from going to save them." He just shook his head, the candlelight dancing over his hair. "You have the gall to question my priorities regarding Elain--yet what was your motive where I was concerned? Did you plan to spare me from your path of destruction because of any genuine friendship, or simply for fear of what it might do to her?" I didn't answer. "Well? What was your grand plan for me before Ianthe interfered?" I pulled at a stray thread in the bedroll. "You would have been fine," was all I said. "And what about Tamlin? Did you plan to disembowel him before you left and simply not get the chance?" I ripped the loose thread right out of the bedroll. "I debated it." "But?" "But I think letting his court collapse around him is a better punishment. Certainly longer than an easy death." I slung off Tamlin's bandolier of knives, leather scraping against the rough stone floor. "You're his emissary--surely you realize that slitting his throat, however satisfying, wouldn't win us many allies in this war." No, it'd give Hybern too many openings to undermine us. He crossed his arms. Digging in for a good, long fight. Before he could do just that, I cut in, "I'm tired. And our voices echo. Let's have it out when it's not likely to get us caught and killed." His gaze was a brand. But I ignored it as I nestled down on the bedroll, the material reeking of dust and rot. I pulled my cloak over me, but didn't close my eyes. I didn't dare sleep--not when he might very well change his mind. Yet just lying down, not moving, not thinking ... Some of the tightness in my body eased. Lucien blew out the candle and I listened to the sounds of him settling down as well. "My father will hunt you for taking his power if he finds out," he said into the frigid dark. "And kill you for learning how to wield it." "He can get in line," was all I said. My exhaustion was a blanket over my senses as gray light stained the cave walls. I'd spent most of the night shivering, jolting at every snap and sound in the forest outside, keenly aware of Lucien's movements on his bedroll. From his own haggard face as he sat up, I knew he hadn't slept, either, perhaps wondering if I'd abandon him. Or if his family would find us first. Or mine. We took each other's measure. "What now," he rasped, scrubbing a broad hand over his face. Rhys had not come--I had not heard a whisper of him down the bond. I felt for my magic, but only ashes greeted me. "We head north," I said. "Until the faebane is out of our systems and we can winnow." Or I could contact Rhys and the others. "My father's court lies due northward. We'll have to go to the east or west to avoid it." "No. East takes us too close to the Summer Court border. And I won't lose time by going too far west. We go straight north." "My father's sentries will easily spot us." "Then we'll have to remain unseen," I said, rising. I dumped the last of the contaminated food from my pack. Let the scavengers have it. Walking through the woods of the Autumn Court felt like striding inside a jewel box. Even with all that potentially hunted us now, the colors were so vivid it was an effort not to gawk and gape. By midmorning, the rime had melted away under the buttery sun to reveal what was suitable for eating. My stomach growled with every step, and Lucien's red hair gleamed like the leaves above us as he scanned the woods for anything to fill our bellies. His woods, by blood and law. He was a son of this forest, and here ... He looked crafted from it. For it. Even that gold eye. Lucien eventually stopped at a jade stream wending through a granite-flanked gully, a spot he claimed had once been rich with trout. I was in the process of constructing a rudimentary fishing pole when he waded into the stream, boots off and pants rolled to his knees, and caught one with his bare hands. He'd tied his hair up, a few strands of it falling into his face as he swooped down again and threw a second trout onto the sandy bank where I'd been trying to find a substitute for fishing twine. We remained silent as the fish eventually stopped flapping, their sides catching and gleaming with all the colors so bright above us. Lucien picked them up by their tails, as if he'd done it a thousand times. He might very well have, right here in this stream. "I'll clean them while you start the fire." In the daylight, the glow of the flames wouldn't be noticed. Though the smoke ... a necessary risk. We worked and ate in silence, the crackling fire offering the only conversation. We hiked north for five days, hardly exchanging a word. Beron's seat was so vast it took us three days to enter, pass through, and clear it. Lucien led us through the outskirts, tense at every call and rustle. The Forest House was a sprawling complex, Lucien informed me during the few times we risked or bothered to speak to each other. It had been built in and around the trees and rocks, and only its uppermost levels were visible above the ground. Below, it tunneled a few levels into the stone. But its sprawl generated its size. You might walk from one end of the House to the other and it would take you half the morning. There were layers and circles of sentries ringing it: in the trees, on the ground, atop the moss-coated shingles and stones of the House itself. No enemies approached Beron's home without his knowledge. None left without his permission. I knew we'd passed beyond Lucien's known map of their patrol routes and stations when his shoulders sagged. Mine were slumped already. I had barely slept, only letting myself do so when Lucien's breathing slid into a different, deeper rhythm. I knew I couldn't keep it up for long, but without the ability to shield, to sense any danger ... I wondered if Rhys was looking for me. If he'd felt the silence. I should have gotten a message out. Told him I was going and how to find me. The faebane--that was why the bond had sounded so muffled. Perhaps I should have killed Ianthe outright. But what was done was done. I was rubbing at my aching eyes, taking a moment's rest beneath our new bounty: an apple tree, laden with fat, succulent fruit. I'd filled my bag with what I could fit inside. Two cores already lay discarded beside me, the sweet rotting scent as lulling as the droning of the bees gorging themselves on fallen apples. A third apple was already primed and poised for eating atop my outstretched legs. After what the Hybern royals had done, I should have sworn off apples forever, but hunger had always blurred lines for me. Lucien, sitting a few feet away, chucked his fourth apple into the bushes as I bit into mine. "The farmlands and fields are near," he announced. "We'll have to stay out of sight. My father doesn't pay well for his crops, and the land-workers will earn any extra coin they can." "Even selling out the location of one of the High Lord's sons?" "Especially that way." "They didn't like you?" His jaw tightened. "As the youngest of seven sons, I wasn't particularly needed or wanted. Perhaps it was a good thing. I was able to study for longer than my father allowed my brothers before shoving them out the door to rule over some territory within our lands, and I could train for as long as I liked, since no one believed I'd be dumb enough to kill my way up the long list of heirs. And when I grew bored with studying and fighting ... I learned what I could of the land from its people. Learned about the people, too." He eased to his feet with a groan, his unbound hair glimmering as the midday sun overhead set the blood and wine hues aglow. "I'd say that sounds more High-Lord-like than the life of an idle, unwanted son." A long, steely look. "Did you think it was mere hatred that prompted my brothers to do their best to break and kill me?" Despite myself, a shudder rippled down my spine. I finished off the apple and uncoiled to my feet, plucking another off a low-hanging branch. "Would you want it--your father's crown?" "No one's ever asked me that," Lucien mused as we moved on, dodging fallen, rotting apples. The air was sticky-sweet. "The bloodshed that would be required to earn that crown wouldn't be worth it. Neither would its festering court. I'd gain a crown--only to rule over a crafty, two-faced people." "Lord of Foxes," I said, snorting as I remembered that mask he'd once worn. "But you never answered my question--about why the people here would sell you out." The air ahead lightened, and a golden field of barley undulated toward a distant tree line. "After Jesminda, they would." Jesminda. He'd never spoken her name. Lucien slid between the swaying, bobbing stalks. "She was one of them." The words were barely audible over the sighing barley. "And when I didn't protect her ... It was a betrayal of their trust, too. I ran to some of their houses while fleeing my brothers. They turned me out for what I let happen to her." Waves of gold and ivory rolled around us, the sky a crisp, unmarred blue. "I can't blame them for it," he said. We cleared the fertile valley by the late afternoon. When Lucien offered to stop for the night, I insisted we keep going --tright into the steep foothills that leaped into gray, snowcapped mountains that marked the start of the shared range with the Winter Court. If we could get over the border in a day or two, perhaps my powers would have returned enough to contact Rhys--or winnow the rest of the way home. The hike wasn't an easy one. Great, craggy boulders made up the ascent, flecked with moss and long, white grasses that hissed like adders. The wind ripped at our hair, the temperature dropping the higher we climbed. Tonight ... We might have to risk a fire tonight. Just to stay alive. Lucien was panting as we scaled a hulking boulder, the valley sprawling away behind, the wood a tangled river of color beyond it. There had to be a pass into the range at some point--out of sight. "How are you not winded," he panted, hauling himself onto the flat top. I shoved back the hair that had torn free of my braid to whip my face. "I trained." "I gathered that much after you took on Dagdan and walked away from it." "I had the element of surprise on my side." "No," Lucien said quietly as I reached for a foothold in the next boulder. "That was all you." My nails barked as I dug my fingers into the rock and heaved myself up. Lucien added, "You had my back--with them, with Ianthe. Thank you." The words hit something low in my gut, and I was glad for the wind that kept roaring around us, if only to hide the burning in my eyes. I slept--finally. With the crackling fire in our latest cave, the heat and the relative remoteness were enough to finally drag me under. And in my dreams, I think I swam through Lucien's mind, as if some small ember of my power was at last returning. I dreamed of our cozy fire, and the craggy walls, the entire space barely big enough to fit us and the fire. I dreamed of the howling, dark night beyond, of all the sounds that Lucien so carefully sorted through while he kept watch. His attention slid to me at one point and lingered. I had never known how young, how human I looked when I slept. My braid was a rope over my shoulder, my mouth slightly parted, my face haggard with days of little rest and food. I dreamed that he removed his cloak and added it over my blanket. Then I ebbed away, flowing out of his head as my dreams shifted and sailed elsewhere. I let a sea of stars rock me into sleep. A hand gripped my face so hard the groaning of my bones jolted me awake. "Look who we found," a cold male voice drawled. I knew that face--the red hair, the pale skin, the smirk. Knew the faces of the other two males in the cave, a snarling Lucien pinned beneath them. His brothers. <|title|>Chapter 12 <|startofchapter|>"Father," the one now holding a knife to my throat said to Lucien, "is rather put out that you didn't stop by to say hello." "We're on an errand and can't be delayed," Lucien answered smoothly, mastering himself. That knife pressed a fraction harder into my skin as he let out a humorless laugh. "Right. Rumor has it you two have run off together, cuckolding Tamlin." His grin widened. "I didn't think you had it in you, little brother." "He had it in her, it seems," one of the others sniggered. I slid my gaze to the male above me. "You will release us." "Our esteemed father wishes to see you," he said with a snake's smile. The knife didn't waver. "So you will come with us to his home." "Eris," Lucien warned. The name clanged through me. Above me, mere inches away ... Mor's former betrothed. The male who had abandoned her when he found her brutalized body on the border. The High Lord's heir. I could have sworn phantom talons bit into my palms. A day or two more, and I might have been able to slash them across his throat. But I didn't have that time. I only had now. I had to make it count. Eris merely said to me, cold and bored, "Get up." I felt it then--stirring awake as if some stick had poked it. As if being here, in this territory, amongst its blooded royals, had somehow sparked it to life, boiling past that poison. Turning that poison to steam. With his knife still angled against my neck, I let Eris haul me to my feet, the other two dragging Lucien before he could stand on his own. Make it count. Use my surroundings. I caught Lucien's eye. And he saw the sweat beading on my temple, my upper lip, as my blood heated. A slight bob of his chin was his only sign of understanding. Eris would bring us to Beron, and the High Lord would either kill us for sport, sell us to the highest bidder, or hold us indefinitely. And after what they had done to Lucien's lover, what they'd done to Mor ... "After you," Eris said smoothly, lowering that knife at last. He shoved me a step. I'd been waiting. Balance, Cassian had taught me, was crucial to winning a fight. And as Eris's shove caused him to get on uneven footing, I turned my propelled step on him. Twisting, so fast he didn't see me get into his open guard, I drove my elbow into his nose. Eris stumbled back. Flame slammed into the other two, and Lucien hurtled out of the way as they shouted and fell deeper into the cave. I unleashed every drop of the flame in me, a wall of it between us and them. Sealing his brothers inside the cave. "Run," I gasped out, but Lucien was already at my side, a steadying hand under my arm as I burned that flame hotter and hotter. It wouldn't keep them contained for long, and I could indeed feel someone's power rising to challenge mine. But there was another force to wield. Lucien understood the same moment I did. Sweat simmered on Lucien's brow as a pulse of flame- licked power slammed into the stones just above us. Dust and debris rained down. I threw any trickle of magic into Lucien's next blow. His next. As Eris's livid face emerged from my net of flame, glowing like a new-forged god of wrath, Lucien and I brought down the cave ceiling. Fire burst through the small cracks like a thousand flaming serpents' tongues--but the cave-in did not so much as tremble. "Hurry," Lucien panted, and I didn't waste breath agreeing as we staggered into the night. Our packs, our weapons, our food ... all inside that cave. I had two daggers on me, Lucien one. I'd been wearing my cloak, but ... he'd indeed given me his. He shivered against the cold as we dragged and clawed our way up the mountain slope, and did not dare stop. Had I still remained human, I would have been dead. The cold was bone-deep, the screaming wind lashing us like burning whips. My teeth clacked against each other, my fingers so stiff I could scarcely grapple onto the icy granite with each mile we staggered through the mountains. Perhaps both of us were spared from an icy death by the kernel of flame that had just barely kindled inside our veins. We didn't pause once, an unspoken fear that if we did, the cold would leech any lingering warmth and we'd never again move. Or Lucien's brothers would gain ground. I tried, over and over, to shout down the bond to Rhys. To winnow. To grow wings and attempt to fly us out of the mountain pass we trudged through, the snow waist-deep and so densely packed in places we had to crawl over it, our skin scraped raw from the ice. But the faebane's stifling grip still held the majority of my power in check. We had to be close to the Winter Court border, I told myself as we squinted against a blast of icy wind through the other end of the narrow mountain pass. Close--and once we were over it, Eris and the others wouldn't dare set foot into another court's territory. My muscles screamed with every step, my boots soaked through with snow, my feet perilously numb. I'd spent enough human winters in the forest to know the dangers of exposure-- the threat of cold and wet. Lucien, a step behind me, panted hard as the walls of rock and snow parted to reveal a bitter, star-flecked night--and more mountains beyond. I almost whimpered. "We've got to keep going," he said, snow crusting the stray strands of his hair, and I wondered if the sound had indeed left me. Ice tickled my frozen nostrils. "We can't last long--we need to get warm and rest." "My brothers--" "We will die if we continue." Or lose fingers and toes at the best. I pointed to the mountain slope ahead, a hazardous plunge down. "We can't risk that at night. We need to find a cave and try to make a fire." "With what?" he snapped. "Do you see any wood?" I only continued on. Arguing just wasted energy--and time. And I didn't have an answer, anyway. I wondered if we'd make it through the night. We found a cave. Deep and shielded from wind or sight. Lucien and I carefully covered our tracks, making sure the wind blew in our favor, veiling our scents. That was where our luck ran out. No wood to be found; no fire in either of our veins. So we used our only option: body heat. Huddled in the farthest reaches of the cave, we sat thigh to thigh and arm to arm beneath my cloak, shuddering with cold and dripping wet. I could scarcely hear the hollow scream of the wind over my chattering teeth. And his. Find me, find me, find me, I tried shouting down that bond. But my mate's wry voice didn't answer. There was only the roaring void. "Tell me about her--about Elain," Lucien said quietly. As if the death that squatted in the dark beside us had drawn his thoughts to his own mate as well. I debated not saying anything, shaking too hard to dredge up speech, but ... "She loves her garden. Always loved growing things. Even when we were destitute, she managed to tend a little garden in the warmer months. And when--when our fortune returned, she took to tending and planting the most beautiful gardens you've ever seen. Even in Prythian. It drove the servants mad, because they were supposed to do the work and ladies were only meant to clip a rose here and there, but Elain would put on a hat and gloves and kneel in the dirt, weeding. She acted like a purebred lady in every regard but that." Lucien was silent for a long moment. "Acted," he murmured. "You talk about her as if she's dead." "I don't know what changes the Cauldron wrought on her. I don't think going home is an option. No matter how she might yearn to." "Surely Prythian is a better alternative, war or no." I steeled myself before saying, "She is engaged, Lucien." I felt every inch of him go stiff beside me. "To whom." Flat, cold words. With the threat of violence simmering beneath. "To a human lord's son. The lord hates faeries--has dedicated his life and wealth to hunting them. Us. I was told that though it's a love match, her betrothed's father was keen to have access to her considerable dowry to continue his crusade against faerie-kind." "Elain loves this lord's son." Not quite a question. "She says she does. Nesta--Nesta thought the father and his obsession with killing faeries was bad enough to raise some alarms. She never voiced the concern to Elain. Neither did I." "My mate is engaged to a human male." He spoke more to himself than to me. "Pm sorry if--" "I want to see her. Just once. Just--to know." "To know what?" He hitched my damp cloak higher around us. "If she is worth fighting for." I couldn't bring myself to say she was, to give him that sort of hope when Elain might very well do everything in her power to hold to her engagement. Even if immortality had already rendered it impossible. Lucien leaned his head back against the rock wall behind us. "And then I'll ask your mate how he survived it--knowing you were engaged to someone else. Sharing another male's bed." I tucked my freezing hands under my arms, gazing toward the gloom ahead. "Tell me when you knew," he demanded, his knee pressing into mine. "That Rhysand was your mate. Tell me when you stopped loving Tamlin and started loving him instead." I chose not to answer. "Was it going on before you even left?" I whipped my head to him, even if I could barely make out his features in the dark. "I never touched Rhysand like that until months later." "You kissed Under the Mountain." "I had as little choice in that as I did in the dancing." "And yet this is the male you now love." He didn't know--he had no inkling of the personal history, the secrets, that had opened my heart to the High Lord of the Night Court. They were not my stories to tell. "One would think, Lucien, that you'd be glad I fell in love with my mate, given that you're in the same situation Rhys was in six months ago." "You left us." Us. Not Tamlin. Us. The words echoed into the dark, toward the howling wind and lashing snow beyond the bend. "I told you that day in the woods: you abandoned me long before I ever physically left." I shivered again, hating every point of contact, that I so desperately needed his warmth. "You fit into the Spring Court as little as I did, Lucien. You enjoyed its pleasures and diversions. But don't pretend you weren't made for something more than that." His metal eye whirred. "And where, exactly, do you believe I will fit in? The Night Court?" I didn't answer. I didn't have one, honestly. As High Lady, I could likely offer him a position, if we survived long enough to make it home. I'd do it mostly to keep Elain from ever going to the Spring Court, but I had little doubt Lucien would be able to hold his own against my friends. And some small, horrible part of me enjoyed the thought of taking one more thing away from Tamlin, something vital, something essential. "We should leave at dawn," was my only reply. We lasted the night. Every part of me was stiff and aching when we began our careful trek down the mountain. Not a whisper or trace of Lucien's brothers--or any sort of life. I didn't care, not when we at last passed over the border and into Winter Court lands. Beyond the mountain, a great ice-plain sparkled into the distance. It would take days to cross, but it didn't matter: I'd awoken with enough power in my veins to warm us with a small fire. Slowly--so slowly, the effects of the faebane ebbed. I was willing to wager that we'd be halfway across the ice by the time we could winnow out of here. If our luck held and no one else found us. I ran through every lesson Rhys had taught me about the Winter Court and its High Lord, Kallias. Towering, exquisite palaces, full of roaring hearths and bedecked in evergreens. Carved sleighs were the court's preferred method of transportation, hauled by velvet-antlered reindeer whose splayed hooves were ideal for the ice and snow. Their forces were well trained, but they often relied on the great, white bears that stalked the realm for any unwanted visitors. I prayed none of them waited on the ice, their coats perfectly blended into the terrain. The Night Court's relationship with Winter was fine enough, still tenuous, as all our bonds were, after Amarantha. After she'd butchered so many of them--including, I remembered with no small surge of nausea, dozens of Winter Court children. I couldn't imagine it--the loss, the rage and grief. I'd never had the nerve to ask Rhys, in those months of training, who the children had belonged to. What the consequences had been. If it was considered the worst of Amarantha's crimes, or just one of countless others. But despite any tentative bonds, Winter was one of the Seasonal Courts. It might side with Tamlin, with Tarquin. Our best allies remained the Solar Courts: Dawn and Day. But they lay far to the north--above the demarcation line between the Solar and Seasonal Courts. That slice of sacred, unclaimed land that held Under the Mountain. And the Weaver's cottage. We'd be gone before we ever had to set foot in that lethal, ancient forest. It was another day and night before we cleared the mountains entirely and set foot on the thick ice. Nothing grew, and I could only tell when we were on solid land by the dense snow packed beneath. Otherwise, too frequently, the ice was clear as glass--revealing dark, depthless lakes beneath. At least we didn't encounter any of the white bears. But the real threat, we both quickly realized, was the utter lack of shelter: out on the ice, there was none to be found against the wind and cold. And if we lit a fire with our feeble magic, anyone nearby would spot it. No matter the practicality of lighting a fire atop a frozen lake. The sun was just slipping above the horizon, staining the plain with gold, the shadows still a bruised blue, when Lucien said, "Tonight, we'll melt some of the ice pack enough to soften it--and build a shelter." I considered. We were barely a hundred feet onto what seemed to be an endless lake. It was impossible to tell where it ended. "You think we'll be out on the ice for that long?" Lucien frowned toward the dawn-stained horizon. "Likely, but who knows how far it extends?" Indeed, the snowdrifts hid much of the ice beneath. "Perhaps there's some other way around ...," I mused, glancing back toward our abandoned little camp. We looked at the same time. And both beheld the three figures now standing at the lake edge. Smiling. Eris lifted a hand wreathed in flame. Flame--to melt the ice on which we stood. <|title|>Chapter 13 <|startofchapter|>"Run," Lucien breathed. I didn't dare take my eyes off his brothers. Not as Eris lowered that hand to the frozen edge of the lake. "Run where, exactly?" Flesh met ice and steam rippled. The ice went opaque, thawing in a line that shot for us-- We ran. The slick ice made for a treacherous sprint, my ankles roaring with the effort of keeping me upright. Ahead, the lake stretched on forever. And with the sun barely awake, the dangers would be even harder to spot-- "Faster," Lucien ordered. "Don't look!" he barked as I began to turn my head to see if they'd followed. He lashed out a hand to grip my elbow, steadying me before I could even register that I'd stumbled. Where would we go where would we go where would we go Water splashed beneath my boots--thawed ice. Eris had to either be expending all his power to get through millennia of ice, or was just doing it slowly to torture us-- "Zag," Lucien panted. "We need to--" He shoved me aside, and I staggered, arms wheeling. Just as an arrow ricocheted off the ice where I'd been standing. "Faster," Lucien snapped, and I didn't hesitate. I hurtled into a flat-out sprint, Lucien and I weaving in and out of each other's paths as those arrows continued firing. Ice sprayed where they landed, and no matter how fast we ran, the ground beneath us melted and melted-- Ice. I had ice in my veins, and now that we were over the border of the Winter Court-- I didn't care if they saw it--my power. Kallias's power. Not when the alternatives were far worse. I threw out a hand before us as a melting splotch began to spread, ice groaning. A spray of ice shot from my palm, freezing the lake once more. With each pump of my arms as I ran, I fired that ice from my palms, solidifying what Eris sought to melt ahead of us. Maybe--just maybe we could clear the lake, and if they were stupid enough to be atop it when we did ... If I could form ice, I could certainly un-form it. I crossed paths with Lucien again, meeting his wide eyes as we did, and opened my mouth to tell him my plan, when Eris appeared. Not behind. Ahead. But it was the other brother at his side, arrow aimed and already flying for me, who drew the shout from my throat. I lunged to the side, rolling. Not fast enough. The arrow's edge sliced the shell of my ear, my cheek, leaving a stinging wake. Lucien shouted, but another arrow was flying. It went clean through my right forearm this time. Ice sliced into my face, my hands, as I went down, knees barking, arm shrieking in agony at the impact-- Behind, steps thudded on ice as the third brother closed in. I bit my lip hard enough to draw blood as I ripped away the cloth of my jacket and shirt from my forearm, snapped the arrow in two, and tore the pieces from my flesh. My roar shattered and bounced across the ice. Eris had taken one step toward me, smiling like a wolf, when I was up again, my last two Illyrian knives in my palms, my right arm screaming at the movement-- Around me, the ice began to melt. "This can end with you going under, begging me to get you out once that ice instantly refreezes," Eris drawled. Behind him, cut off by his brothers, Lucien had drawn his own knife and now sized up the other two. "Or this can end with you agreeing to take my hand. But either way, you will be coming with me." Already, the flesh in my arm was knitting together. Healing --from Dawn's powers reawakening in my veins-- And if that was working-- I didn't give Eris time to read my move. I sucked in a sharp breath. White, blinding light erupted from me. Eris swore, and I ran. Not toward him, not when I was still too injured to wield my knives. But away--toward that distant shore. Half-blinded myself, I stumbled and staggered until I was clear of the treacherous, melting splotches, then sprinted. I made it all of twenty feet before Eris winnowed in front of me and struck. A backhanded blow to the face, so hard my teeth went through my lip. He struck again before I could even fall, a punch to my gut that ripped the air from my lungs. Beyond me, Lucien had unleashed himself upon his two brothers. Metal and fire blasted and collided, ice spraying. I'd no sooner hit the ice than Eris grabbed me by the hair, right at the roots, the grip so brutal tears stung my eyes. But he dragged me back toward that shore, back across the ice-- I fought against the blow to my gut, fought to get a wisp of air down my throat, into my lungs. My boots scraped against the ice as I feebly kicked, yet Eris held firm-- I think Lucien shouted my name. I opened my mouth, but a gag of fire shoved its way between my lips. It didn't burn, but was hot enough to tell me it would if Eris willed it. Equal bands of flame wrapped around my wrists, my ankles. My throat. I couldn't remember--couldn't remember what to do, how to move, how to stop this-- Closer and closer to the shore, to the awaiting party of sentries that winnowed in out of nowhere. No, no, no-- A shadow slammed into the earth before us, cracking the ice toward every horizon. Not a shadow. An Illyrian warrior. Seven red Siphons glinted over his scaled black armor as Cassian tucked in his wings and snarled at Eris with five centuries' worth of rage. Not dead. Not hurt. Whole. His wings repaired and strong. I loosed a shuddering sob over the burning gag. Cassian's Siphons flickered in response, as if the sight of me, at Eris's hand-- Another impact struck the ice behind us. Shadows skittered in its wake. Azriel. I began crying in earnest, some leash I'd kept on myself snapping free as my friends landed. As I saw that Azriel, too, was alive, was healed. As Cassian drew twin Illyrian blades, the sight of them like home, and said to Eris with lethal calm, "I suggest you drop my lady." Eris's grip on my hair only tightened, wringing a whimper from me. The wrath that twisted Cassian's face was world-ending. But his hazel eyes slid to mine. A silent command. He had spent months training me. Not just to attack, but to defend. Had taught me, over and over, how to get free of a captor's grasp. How to manage not only my body, but my mind. As if he'd known that it was a very real possibility that this scenario would one day happen. Eris had bound my limbs, but--I could still move them. Still use parts of my magic. And getting him off balance long enough to let go, to let Cassian jump between us and take on the High Lord's son ... Towering over me, Eris didn't so much as glance down as I twisted, spinning on the ice, and slammed my bound legs up between his. He lurched, bending over with a grunt. Right into the fisted, bound hands I drove into his nose. Bone crunched, and his hand sprang free of my hair. I rolled, scrambling away. Cassian was already there. Eris hardly had time to draw his sword as Cassian brought his own down upon him. Steel against steel rang out across the ice. Sentries on the shore unleashed arrows of wood and magic--only to bounce against a shield of blue. Azriel. Across the ice, he and Lucien were engaging the other two brothers. That any of Lucien's siblings held out against the Illyrians was a testament to their own training, but I focused the ice in my veins on the gag in my mouth, the binds around my wrists and ankles. Ice to smother fire, to sing it to sleep ... Cassian and Eris clashed, danced back, clashed again. Ropes of fire snapped free, dissolving with a hiss of steam. I was on my feet again, reaching for a weapon I did not have. My daggers had been lost forty feet away. Cassian got past Eris's guard with brutal efficiency. And Eris screamed as the Illyrian blade punched through his gut. Blood, red as rubies, stained the ice and snow. For a heartbeat, I saw how it would play out: three of Beron's sons dead at our hands. A temporary satisfaction for me, five centuries of satisfaction for Cassian, Azriel, and Mor, but if Beron still debated what side to support in this war ... I had other weapons to use. "Stop," I said. The word was a soft, cold command. And Azriel and Cassian obeyed. Lucien's other two brothers were back-to-back, bloody and gaping. Lucien himself was panting, sword still raised, as Azriel flicked the blood off his own blade and stalked toward me. I met the hazel eyes of the shadowsinger. The cool face that hid such pain--and kindness. He had come. Cassian had come. The Illyrians fell into place beside me. Eris, a hand pressed to his gut, was breathing wetly, glaring at us. Glaring--then considering. Watching the three of us as I said to Eris, to his other two brothers, to the sentries on the shore, "You all deserve to die for this. And for much, much more. But I am going to spare your miserable lives." Even with a wound through his gut, Eris's lip curled. Cassian snarled his warning. I only removed the glamour I'd kept on myself these weeks. With the sleeve of my jacket and shirt gone, there was nothing but smooth skin where that wound had been. Smooth skin that now became adorned with swirls and whorls of ink. The markings of my new title--and my mating bond. Lucien's face drained of color as he strode for us, stopping a healthy distance from Azriel's side. "I am High Lady of the Night Court," I said quietly to them all. Even Eris stopped sneering. His amber eyes widened, something like fear now creeping into them. "There's no such thing as a High Lady," one of Lucien's brothers spat. A faint smile played on my mouth. "There is now." And it was time for the world to know it. I caught Cassian's gaze, finding pride glimmering there-- and relief. "Take me home," I ordered him, my chin high and unwavering. Then to Azriel, "Take us both home." I said to the Autumn Court's scions, "We'll see you on the battlefield." Let them decide whether it was better to be fighting beside us or against us. I turned to Cassian, who opened his arms and tucked me in tight before launching us skyward in a blast of wings and power. Beside us, Azriel and Lucien did the same. When Eris and the others were nothing but specks of black on white below, when we were sailing high and fast, Cassian observed, "I don't know who looks more uncomfortable: Az or Lucien Vanserra." I chuckled, glancing over my shoulder to where the shadowsinger carried my friend, both of them making a point not to speak, look, or talk. "Vanserra?" "You never knew his family name?" I met those laughing, fierce hazel eyes. Cassian's smile softened. "Hello, Feyre." My throat tightened to the point of pain, and I threw my arms around his neck, embracing him tightly. "I missed you, too," Cassian murmured, squeezing me. We flew until we reached the border of the sacred, eighth territory. And when Cassian set us down in a snowy field before the ancient wood, I took one look at the blond female in Illyrian leathers pacing between the gnarled trees and launched into a sprint. Mor held me as tightly as I gripped her. "Where is he?" I asked, refusing to let go, to lift my head from her shoulder. "He--it's a long story. Far away, but racing home. Right now." Mor pulled back enough to scan my face. Her mouth tightened at the lingering injuries, and she gently scraped away flecks of dried blood caked on my ear. "He picked up on you --the bond--minutes ago. The three of us were closest. I winnowed in Cassian, but with Eris and the others there ..." Guilt dimmed her eyes. "Relations with the Winter Court are strained--we thought if I was out here on the border, it might keep Kallias's forces from looking south. At least long enough to get you." And to avoid an interaction with Eris that Mor was perhaps not ready for. I shook my head at the shame still shadowing her usually bright features. "I understand." I embraced her again. "I understand." Mor's answering squeeze was rib-crushing. Azriel and Lucien landed, plumes of snow spraying in the former's wake. Mor and I released each other at last, my friend's face going grave as she sized up Lucien. Snow and blood and dirt coated him--coated us both. Cassian explained to Mor, "He fought against Eris and the other two." Mor's throat bobbed, noting the blood staining Cassian's hands--realizing it wasn't his own. Scenting it, no doubt, as she blurted, "Eris. Did you--" "He remains alive," Azriel answered, shadows curling around the clawed tips of his wings, so stark against the snow beneath our boots. "So do the others." Lucien was glancing between all of them, wary and quiet. What he knew of Mor's history with his eldest brother ... I'd never asked. Never wanted to. Mor tossed her mass of golden waves over a shoulder. "Then let's go home." "Which one?" I asked carefully. Mor swept her attention over Lucien once more. I almost pitied Lucien for the weight in her gaze, the utter judgment. The stare of the Morrigan--whose gift was pure truth. Whatever she beheld in Lucien was enough for her to say, "The town house. You have someone waiting there for you." <|title|>Chapter 14 <|startofchapter|>I had not let myself imagine it: the moment I'd again stand in the wood-paneled foyer of the town house. When I'd hear the song of the gulls soaring high above Velaris, smell the brine of the Sidra River that wended through the heart of the city, feel the warmth of the sunshine streaming through the windows upon my back. Mor had winnowed us all, and now stood behind me, panting softly, as we watched Lucien survey our surroundings. His metal eye whirred, while the other warily scanned the rooms flanking the foyer: the dining room and sitting room overlooking the little front yard and street; then the stairs to the second level; then the hallway beside it that led to the kitchen and courtyard garden. Then finally to the shut front door. To the city waiting beyond. Cassian took up a place against the banister, crossing his arms with an arrogance I knew meant trouble. Azriel remained beside me, shadows wreathing his knuckles. As if battling High Lords' sons was how they usually spent their days. I wondered if Lucien knew that his first words here would either damn or save him. I wondered what my role in it would be. No--it was my call. High Lady. I--outranked them, my friends. It was my call to make whether Lucien was allowed to keep his freedom. But their watchful silence was indication enough: let him decide his own fate. At last, Lucien looked at me. At us. He said, "There are children laughing in the streets." I blinked. He said it with such ... quiet surprise. As if he hadn't heard the sound in a long, long time. I opened my mouth to reply, but someone else spoke for me. "That they do so at all after Hybern's attack is testament to how hard the people of Velaris have worked to rebuild." I whirled, finding Amren emerging from wherever she'd been sitting in the other room, the plush furniture hiding her small body. She appeared exactly as she had the last time I'd seen her: standing in this very foyer, warning us to be careful in Hybern. Her chin-length, jet-black hair gleamed in the sunlight, her silver, unearthly eyes unusually bright as they met mine. The delicate female bowed her head. As much of a gesture of obedience as a fifteen-thousand-year-old creature would make to a newly minted High Lady. And friend. "I see you brought home a new pet," she said, nose crinkling with distaste. Something like fear had entered Lucien's eye, as if he, too, beheld the monster that lurked beneath that beautiful face. Indeed, it seemed he had heard of her already. Before I could introduce him, Lucien bowed at the waist. Deeply. Cassian let out an amused grunt, and I shot him a warning glare. Amren smiled slightly. "Already trained, I see." Lucien slowly straightened, as if he were standing before the open maw of some great plains-cat he did not wish to startle with sudden movements. "Amren, this is Lucien ... Vanserra." Lucien stiffened. "I don't use my family's name." He clarified to Amren with another incline of his head, "Lucien will do." I suspected he'd ceased using that name the moment his lover's heart had stopped beating. Amren was studying that metal eye. "Clever work," she said, then surveyed me. "Looks like someone clawed you up, girl." The wound in my arm, at least, had healed, though a nasty red mark remained. I assumed my face wasn't much better. Before I could answer her, Lucien asked, "What is this place?" We all looked at him. "Home," I said. "This is--my home." I could see the details now sinking in. The lack of darkness. The lack of screaming. The scent of the sea and citrus, not blood and decay. The laughter of children that indeed continued. The greatest secret in Prythian's history. "This is Velaris," I explained. "The City of Starlight." His throat bobbed. "And you are High Lady of the Night Court." "Indeed she is." My blood stopped at the voice that drawled from behind me. At the scent that hit me, awoke me. My friends began smiling. I turned. Rhysand leaned against the archway into the sitting room, arms crossed, wings nowhere to be seen, dressed in his usual immaculate black jacket and pants. And as those violet eyes met mine, as that familiar half smile faded ... My face crumpled. A small, broken noise cracked from me. Rhys was instantly moving, but my legs had already given out. The foyer carpet cushioned the impact as I sank to my knees. I covered my face with my hands while the past month crashed into me. Rhys knelt before me, knee to knee. Gently, he pulled my hands away from my face. Gently, he took my cheeks in his hands and brushed away my tears. I didn't care that we had an audience as I lifted my head and beheld the joy and concern and love shining in those remarkable eyes. Neither did Rhys as he murmured, "My love," and kissed me. I'd no sooner slid my hands into his hair than he scooped me into his arms and stood in one smooth movement. I pulled my mouth from his, glancing toward a pallid Lucien, but Rhysand said to our companions without so much as looking at them, "Go find somewhere else to be for a while." He didn't wait to see if they obeyed. Rhys winnowed us up the stairs and launched into a steady, swift walk down the hallway. I peered down at the foyer in time to spy Mor grabbing Lucien's arm and nodding to the others before they all vanished. "Do you want to go over what happened at the Spring Court?" I asked, voice raw, as I studied my mate's face. No amusement, nothing but that predatory intensity, focused on my every breath. "There are other things I'd rather do first." He carried me into our bedroom--once his room, now full of our belongings. It was exactly as I'd last seen it: the enormous bed that he now strode for, the two armoires, the desk by the window that overlooked the courtyard garden now bursting with purple and pink and blue amid the lush greens. I braced myself to be sprawled on the bed, but Rhys paused halfway across the room, the door snicking shut on a star- kissed wind. Slowly, he set me on the plush carpet, blatantly sliding me down his body as he did so. As if he was as powerless to resist touching me, as reluctant to let go as I was with him. And every place where our bodies met, all of him so warm and solid and real ... I savored it, my throat tight as I placed a hand on his sculpted chest, the thunderous heartbeat beneath his black jacket echoing into my palm. The only sign of whatever torrent coursed through him as he skimmed his hands up my arms in a lingering caress and gripped my shoulders. His thumbs stroked a gentle rhythm over my filthy clothes as he scanned my face. Beautiful. He was even more beautiful than I had remembered, dreamed of during those weeks at the Spring Court. For a long moment, we only breathed in each other's air. For a long moment, all I could do was take the scent of him deep into my lungs, letting it settle inside me. My fingers tightened on his jacket. Mate. My mate. As if he'd heard it down the bond, Rhys finally murmured, "When the bond went dark, I thought ..." Fear--genuine terror shadowed his eyes, even as his thumbs continued stroking my shoulders, gentle and steady. "By the time I got to the Spring Court, you'd vanished. Tamlin was raging through that forest, hunting for you. But you hid your scent. And even I couldn't--couldn't find you--" The snag in his words was a knife to my gut. "We went to the Autumn Court through one of the doors," I said, setting my other hand on his arm. The corded muscles beneath shifted at my touch. "You couldn't find me because two Hybern commanders drugged my food and drink with faebane-- enough to extinguish my powers. I still don't have full use. Cold rage now flickered across that beautiful face as his thumbs halted on my shoulders. "You killed them." Not entirely a question, but I nodded. "Good." I swallowed. "Has Hybern sacked the Spring Court?" "Not yet. Whatever you did ... it worked. Tamlin's sentries abandoned him. Over half his people refused to appear for the Tithe two days ago. Some are leaving for other courts. Some are murmuring of rebellion. It seems you made yourself quite beloved. Holy, even." Amusement at last warmed his features. "They were rather upset when they believed he'd allowed Hybern to terrorize you into fleeing." I traced the faint silver whorl of embroidery on the breast of his jacket, and I could have sworn he shuddered beneath the touch. "I suppose they'll learn soon enough I'm well cared for." Rhys's hands tightened on my shoulders in agreement, as if he were about to show me just how well cared for I was, but I angled my head. "What about Ianthe--and Jurian?" Rhysand's powerful chest heaved beneath my hand as he blew out a breath. "Reports are murky on both. Jurian, it seems, has returned to the hand that feeds him. Janthe ..." Rhys lifted his brows. "I assume her hand is courtesy of you, and not the commanders." "She fell," I said sweetly. "Must have been some fall," he mused, a dark smile dancing on those lips as he drifted even closer, the heat of his body seeping into me while his hands migrated from my shoulders to brush lazy lines down my back. I bit my lip, focusing on his words and not the urge to arch into the touch, to bury my face in his chest and do some exploring of my own. "She's currently convalescing after her ordeal, apparently. Won't leave her temple." It was my turn to murmur, "Good." Perhaps one of those pretty acolytes of hers would get sick of her sanctimonious bullshit and smother Ianthe in her sleep. I braced my hands on his hips, fully ready to slide beneath his jacket, needing to touch bare skin, but Rhys straightened, pulling back. Still close enough that one of his hands remained on my waist, but the other-- He reached for my arm, gently examining the angry welt where my skin had been torn by an arrow. Darkness rumbled in the corner of the room. "Cassian let me into his mind just now--to show me what happened on the ice." He stroked a thumb over the hurt, the touch featherlight. "Eris was always a male of limited days. Now Lucien might find himself closer to inheriting his father's throne than he ever expected to be." My spine locked. "Eris is precisely as horrible as you painted him to be." Rhys's thumb glided over my forearm again, leaving gooseflesh in its wake. A promise--not of the retribution he was contemplating, but of what awaited us in this room. The bed a few feet away. Until he murmured, "You declared yourself High Lady." "Was I not supposed to?" He released my arm to brush his knuckles across my cheek. "I've wanted to roar it from the rooftops of Velaris from the moment the priestess anointed you. How typical of you to upend my grand plans." A smile tugged on my lips. "It happened less than an hour ago. I'm sure you could go crow from the chimney right now and everyone would give you credit for breaking the news." His fingers threaded through my hair, tilting my face up. That wicked smile grew, and my toes curled in their boots. "There's my darling Feyre." His head dipped, his gaze fixated on my mouth, hunger lighting those violet eyes-- "Where are my sisters?" The thought clanged through me, jarring as a pealing bell. Rhys paused, hand slipping from my hair as his smile faded. "At the House of Wind." He straightened, swallowing --as if it somehow checked him. "I can--take you to them." Every word seemed to be an effort. But he would, I realized. He'd shove down his need for me and take me to them, if that was what I wanted. My choice. It had always been my choice with him. I shook my head. I wouldn't see them--not yet. Not until I was steady enough to face them. "They're well, though?" His hesitation told me enough. "They're safe." Not really an answer, but I wasn't going to fool myself into thinking my sisters would be thriving. I leaned my brow against his chest. "Cassian and Azriel are healed," I murmured against his jacket, breathing in the scent of him over and over as a tremor shuddered through me. "You told me that--and yet I didn't ... it didn't sink in. Until now." Rhys ran a hand down my back, the other sliding to grip my hip. "Azriel healed within a few days. Cassian's wings ... it was complex. But he's been training every day to regain his strength. The healer had to rebuild most of his wings--but he'll be fine." I swallowed down the tightness in my throat and wrapped my arms around his waist, pressing my face wholly against his chest. His hand tightened on my hip in answer, the other resting at my nape, holding me to him as I breathed, "Mor said you were far away--that was why you weren't there." "I'm sorry I wasn't." "No," I said, lifting my head to scan his eyes, the guilt dampening them. "I didn't mean it like that. I just ..." I savored the feel of him beneath my palms. "Where were you?" Rhys stilled, and I braced myself as he said casually, "I couldn't very well let you do all the work to undermine our enemies, could I?" I didn't smile. "Where. Were. You." "With Az only recently back on his feet, I took it upon myself to do some of his work." I clenched my jaw. "Such as?" He leaned down, nuzzling my throat. "Don't you want to comfort your mate, who has missed you terribly these weeks?" I planted a hand on his face and pushed him back, scowling. "I want my mate to tell me where the hell he was. Then he can get his comfort." Rhys nipped at my fingers, teeth snapping playfully. "Cruel, beautiful female." I watched him beneath lowered brows. Rhys rolled his eyes, sighing. "I was on the continent. At the human queens' palace." I choked. "You were where?" "Technically, I was flying above it, but--" "You went alone?" He gaped at me. "Despite what our mistakes in Hybern might have suggested, I am capable of--" "You went to the human world, to our enemies' compound, alone?" "I'd rather it be me than any of the others." That had been his problem from the start. Always him, always sacrificing-- "Why," I demanded. "Why risk it? Is something happening?" Rhys peered toward the window, as if he could see all the way to the mortal lands. His mouth tightened. "It's the quiet on their side of the sea that bothers me. No whisper of armies gathered, no other human allies summoned. Since Hybern, we've heard nothing. So I thought to see for myself why that is." He flicked my nose, tugging me closer again. "I'd just neared the edge of their territory when I felt the bond awaken again. I knew the others were closer, so I sent them." "You don't need to explain." Rhys rested his chin atop my head. "I wanted to be there-- to get you. Find you. Bring you home." "You do certainly enjoy a dramatic entrance." He chuckled, his breath warming my hair as I listened to the sound rumble through his body. Of course he would have been working against Hybern while I was away. Had I expected them all to be sitting on their asses for over a month? And Rhys, constantly plotting, always a step ahead ... He would have used this time to his advantage. I debated asking about it, but right now, breathing him in, feeling his warmth ... Let it wait. Rhys pressed a kiss to my hair. "You're home." A shuddering, small sound came out of me as I nodded, squeezing him tighter. Home. Not just Velaris, but wherever he was, our family was. Ebony claws stroked along the barrier in my mind--in affection and request. I lowered my shields for him, just as his own dropped. His mind curled around mine, as surely as his body now held me. "I missed you every moment," Rhys said, leaning down to kiss the corner of my mouth. "Your smile." His lips grazed over the shell of my ear and my back arched slightly. "Your laugh." He pressed a kiss to my neck, right beneath my ear, and I tilted my head to give him access, biting down the urge to beg him to take more, to take faster as he murmured, "Your scent." My eyes fluttered closed, and his hands coasted around my hips to cup my rear, squeezing as he bent to kiss the center of my throat. "The sounds you make when I'm inside you." His tongue flicked over the spot where he'd kissed, and one of those sounds indeed escaped me. Rhys kissed the hollow of my collarbone, and my core went utterly molten. "My brave, bold, brilliant mate." He lifted his head, and it was an effort to open my eyes. To meet his stare as his hands roved in lazy lines down my back, over my rear, then up again. "I love you," he said. And if I hadn't already believed him, felt it in my very bones, the light in his face as he said the words ... Tears burned my eyes again, slipping free before I could control myself. Rhys leaned in to lick them away. One after another. As he'd once done Under the Mountain. "You have a choice," he murmured against my cheekbone. "Either I lick every inch of you clean ..." His hand grazed the tip of my breast, circling lazily. As if we had days and days to do this. "Or you can get into the bath that should be ready by now. I pulled away, lifting a brow. "Are you suggesting that I smell?" Rhys smirked, and I could have sworn my core pounded in answer. "Never. But ..." His eyes darkened, the desire and amusement fading as he took in my clothes. "There is blood on you. Yours, and others'. I thought I'd be a good mate and offer you a bath before I ravish you wholly." I huffed a laugh and brushed back his hair, savoring the silken, sable strands between my fingers. "So considerate. Though I can't believe you kicked everyone out of the house so you could take me to bed." "One of the many benefits to being High Lord." "What a terrible abuse of power." That half smile danced on his mouth. "Well?" "As much as I'd like to see you attempt to lick off a week's worth of dirt, sweat, and blood ..." His eyes gleamed with the challenge, and I laughed again. "Normal bath, please." He had the nerve to look vaguely disappointed. I poked him in the chest as I pushed away, aiming for the large bathing room attached to the bedroom. The massive porcelain tub was already filled with steaming water, and-- "Bubbles?" "Do you have a moral objection to them?" I grinned, unbuttoning my jacket. My fingers were near- black with dirt and caked blood. I cringed. "I might need more than one bath to get clean." He snapped his fingers, and my skin was instantly pristine again. I blinked. "If you can do that, then what's the point of the bath?" He'd done it Under the Mountain for me a few times--that magical cleaning. I'd somehow never asked. He leaned against the doorway, watching me peel off my torn and stained jacket. As if it were the most important task he'd ever been given. "The essence of the dirt remains." His voice roughened as he tracked each movement of my fingers while I unlaced my boots. "Like a layer of oil." Indeed, my skin, while it looked clean, felt ... unwashed. I kicked off the boots, letting them land on my filthy jacket. "So it's more for aesthetic purposes." "You're taking too long," he said, jerking his chin toward the bath. My breasts tightened at the slight growl lacing his words. He watched that, too. And I smiled to myself, arching my back a bit more than necessary as I removed my shirt and tossed it to the marble floor. Sunlight streamed in through the steam rising from the tub, casting the space between us in gold and white. Rhys made a low noise that sounded vaguely like a whimper as he took in my bare torso. As he took in my breasts, now heavy and aching, badly enough that I had to swallow my plea to forget this bath entirely. But I pretended not to notice as I unbuttoned my pants and let them fall to the floor. Along with my undergarments. Rhys's eyes simmered. I smirked, daring a look at his own pants. At the evidence of what, exactly, this was doing to him, pressing against the black material with impressive demand. I simply crooned, "Too bad there isn't room in the tub for two." "A design flaw, and one I shall remedy tomorrow." His voice was rough, quiet--and it slid invisible hands down my breasts, between my legs. Mother save me. I somehow managed to walk, to climb into the tub. Somehow managed to remember how to bathe myself. Rhys remained leaning against the doorway the entire time, silently watching with that unrelenting focus. I might have taken longer washing certain areas. And might have made sure he saw it. He only gripped the threshold hard enough that the wood groaned beneath his hand. But Rhys made no move to pounce, even when I toweled off and brushed out my tangled hair. As if the restraint ... it was part of the game, too. My bare toes curled on the marble floor as I set down my brush on the sink vanity, every inch of my body aware of where he stood in the doorway, aware of his eyes upon me in the mirror's reflection. "All clean," I declared, my voice hoarse as I met his stare in the mirror. I could have sworn only darkness and stars swirled beyond his shoulders. A blink, and they were gone. But the predatory hunger on his face ... I turned, my fingers trembling slightly as I clutched my towel around me. Rhys only extended a hand, his own fingers shaking. Even the towel was abrasive against my too-sensitive skin as I laid my hand on his, his calluses scraping as they closed over my fingers. I wanted them scraping all over me. But he simply led me into the bedroom, step after step, the muscles of his broad back shifting beneath his jacket. And lower, the sleek, powerful cut of thighs, his ass-- I was going to devour him. From head to toe. I was going to devour him-- But Rhys paused before the bed, releasing my hand and facing me from the safety of a step away. And it was the expression on his face as he traced a still-tender spot on my cheekbone that checked the heat threatening to raze my senses. I swallowed, my hair dripping on the carpet. "Is the bruise bad?" "It's nearly gone." Darkness flickered in the room once more. I scanned that perfect face. Every line and angle. The fear and rage and love--the wisdom and cunning and strength. I let my towel drop to the carpet. Let him look me over as I put a hand on his chest, his heart raging beneath my palm. "Ready for ravishing." My words didn't come out with the swagger I'd intended. Not when Rhys's answering smile was a dark, cruel thing. "I hardly know where to begin. So many possibilities." He lifted a finger, and my breath came hard and fast as he idly circled one of my breasts, then the other. In ever- tightening rings. "I could start here," he murmured. I clenched my thighs together. He noted the movement, that dark smile growing. And just before his finger reached the tip of my breast, just before he gave me what I was about to beg for, his finger slid upward--to my chest, my neck, my chin. Right to my mouth. He traced the shape of my lips, a whisper of touch. "Or I could start here," he breathed, slipping the tip of his finger into my mouth. I couldn't help myself from closing my lips around him, from flicking my tongue against the pad of his finger. But Rhys withdrew his finger with a soft groan, making a downward path. Along my neck. Chest. Straight over a nipple. He paused there, flicking it once, then smoothed his thumb over the small hurt. I was shaking now, barely able to keep standing as his finger continued past my breast. He drew patterns on my stomach, scanning my face as he purred, "Or..." I couldn't think beyond that single finger, that one point of contact as it drifted lower and lower, to where I wanted him. "Or?" I managed to breathe. His head dipped, hair sliding over his brow as he watched --we both watched--his broad finger venture down. "Or I could start here," he said, the words guttural and raw. I didn't care--not as he dragged that finger down the center of me. Not as he circled that spot, light and taunting. "Here would be nice," he observed, his breathing uneven. "Or maybe even here," he finished, and plunged that finger inside me. I groaned, gripping his arm, nails digging into the muscles beneath--muscles that shifted as he pumped his finger once, twice. Then slid it out and drawled, brows rising. "Well? Where shall I begin, Feyre darling?" I could barely form words, thoughts. But--I'd had enough of playing. So I took that infernal hand of his, guiding it to my heart, and placed it there, half over the curve of my breast. I met his hooded gaze as I spoke the words that I knew would be his undoing in this little game, the words that were rising up in me with every breath. "You're mine." It snapped the tether he'd kept on himself. His clothes vanished--all of them--and his mouth angled over my own. It wasn't a gentle kiss. Wasn't soft or searching. It was a claiming, wild and unchecked--it was an unleashing. And the taste of him ... the heat of him, the demanding stroke of his tongue against my own ... Home. I was home. My hands shot into his hair, pulling him closer as I answered each of his searing kisses with my own, unable to get enough, unable to touch and feel enough of him. Skin to skin, Rhys nudged me toward the bed, his hands kneading my rear as I ran my own over the velvet softness of him, over every hard plane and ripple. His beautiful, mighty wings tore from his back, splaying wide before neatly tucking in. My thighs hit the bed behind us, and Rhys paused, trembling. Giving me time to reconsider, even now. My heart strained, but I pulled my mouth from his. Held his gaze as I lowered myself onto the white sheets and inched back. Further and further onto the bed, until I was bare before him. Until I took in the considerable, proud length of him and my core tightened in answer. "Rhys," I breathed, his name a plea on my tongue. His wings flared, chest heaving as stars sparked in his eyes. And it was the longing there--beneath the desire, beneath the need--it was the longing in those beautiful eyes that made me glance to the mountains tattooed on his knees. The insignia of this court--our court. The promise that he would kneel for no one and nothing but his crown. And me. Mine--he was mine. I sent the thought down the bond. No playing, no delaying--I wanted him on me, in me. I needed to feel him, hold him, share breath with him. He heard the edge of desperation, felt it through the mating bond flowing between us. His eyes did not leave mine as he prowled over me, every movement graceful as a stalking plains-cat. Interlacing our fingers, his breathing uneven, Rhys used a knee to nudge my legs apart and settle between them. Carefully, lovingly, he laid our joined hands beside my head as he guided himself into me and whispered in my ear, "You're mine, too." At the first nudge of him, I surged forward to claim his mouth. I dragged my tongue over his teeth, swallowing his groan of pleasure as his hips rolled in gentle thrusts and he pushed in, and in, and in. Home. This was home. And when Rhys was seated to the hilt, when he paused to let me adjust to the fullness of him, I thought I might explode into moonlight and flame, thought I might die from the sheer force of what swept through me. My pants were edged with sobs as I dug my fingers into his back, and Rhys withdrew slightly to study my face. To read what was there. "Never again," he promised as he pulled out, then thrust back in with excruciating slowness. He kissed my brow, my temple. "My darling Feyre." Beyond words, I moved my hips, urging him deeper, harder. Rhys obliged me. With every movement, every shared breath, every whispered endearment and moan, that mating bond I'd hidden so far inside myself grew brighter. Clearer. And when it again shone as brilliantly as adamant, my release cascaded through me, leaving my skin glowing like a newborn star in its wake. At the sight of it, right as I dragged a finger down the sensitive inside of his wing, Rhys shouted my name and found his pleasure. I held him through every heaving breath, held him as he at last stilled, lingering inside me, and relished the feel of his skin on mine. For long minutes, we remained there, tangled together, listening to our breathing even out, the sound of it finer than any music. After a while, Rhys lifted his chest enough to take my right hand. To examine the tattoos inked there. He kissed one of the whorls of near-black blue ink. His throat bobbed. "I missed you. Every second, every breath. Not just this," he said, shifting his hips for emphasis and dragging a groan from deep in my throat, "but ... talking to you. Laughing with you. I missed having you in my bed, but missed having you as my friend even more." My eyes burned. "I know," I managed to say, stroking a hand down his wings, his back. "I know." I kissed his bare shoulder, right over a whorl of Illyrian tattoo. "Never again," I promised him, and whispered it over and over as the sunlight drifted across the floor. <|title|>Chapter 15 <|startofchapter|>My sisters had been living in the House of Wind since they'd arrived in Velaris. They did not leave the palace built into the upper parts of a flat-topped mountain overlooking the city. They did not ask for anything, or anyone. So I would go to them. Lucien was waiting in the sitting room when Rhys and I came downstairs at last, my mate having given the silent order for them to return. Unsurprisingly, Cassian and Azriel were casually seated in the dining room across the hall, eating lunch and marking every single breath Lucien emitted. Cassian smirked at me, brows flicking up. I shot him a warning glare that dared him to comment. Azriel, thankfully, just kicked Cassian under the table. Cassian gawked at Azriel as if to declare I wasn't going to say anything while I approached the open archway into the sitting room, Lucien rising to his feet. I fought my cringe as I halted in the threshold. Lucien was still in his travel-worn, filthy clothes. His face and hands, at least, were clean, but ... I should have gotten him something else. Remembered to offer him-- The thought rippled away into nothing as Rhys appeared at my side. Lucien did not bother to hide the slight curling of his lip. As if he could see the mating bond glowing between Rhys and me. His eyes--both russet and golden--slid down my body. To my hand. To the ring now on my finger, at the star sapphire sky- bright against the silver. A simple silver band sat on Rhysand's matching finger. We'd slid them onto each other's hands before coming downstairs--more intimate and searing than any publicly made vows. I'd told Rhys before we did so that I had half a mind to deposit his ring at the Weaver's cottage and make him retrieve it. He'd laughed and said that if I truly felt it was necessary to settle the score between us, perhaps I could find some other creature for him to battle--one that wouldn't delight in removing my favorite part from his body. I'd only kissed him, murmuring about someone thinking rather highly of themselves, and had placed the ring he'd selected for himself, bought here in Velaris while I'd been away, onto his finger. Any joy, any lingering laughter from that moment, those silent vows ... It curled up like leaves in a fire as Lucien sneered at our rings. How close we stood. I swallowed. Rhys noted it, too. It was impossible to miss. My mate leaned against the carved archway and drawled to Lucien, "I assume Cassian or Azriel has explained that if you threaten anyone in this house, this territory, we'll show you ways to die you've never even imagined." Indeed, the Illyrians smirked from where they lingered in the dining room threshold. Azriel was by far the more terrifying of the pair. Something twisted in my gut at the threat--the smooth, sleek aggression. Lucien was--had been--my friend. He wasn't my enemy, not entirely-- "But," Rhys continued, sliding his hands into his pockets, "I can understand how difficult this past month has been for you. I know Feyre explained we aren't exactly as rumor suggests ..." I'd let him into my mind before we'd come down --shown him all that had occurred at the Spring Court. "But hearing it and seeing it are two different things." He shrugged with one shoulder. "Elain has been cared for. Her participation in life here has been entirely her choice. No one but us and a few trusted servants have entered the House of Wind." Lucien remained silent. "I was in love with Feyre," Rhys said quietly, "long before she ever returned the feeling." Lucien crossed his arms. "How fortunate that you got what you wanted in the end." I closed my eyes for a heartbeat. Cassian and Azriel stilled, waiting for the order. "I will only say this once," warned the High Lord of the Night Court. Even Lucien flinched. "I suspected Feyre was my mate before I ever knew she was involved with Tamlin. And when I learned of it ... If it made her happy, I was willing to step back." "You came to our house and stole her away on her wedding day." "I was going to call the wedding off," I cut in, taking a step toward Lucien. "You knew it." Rhysand went on before Lucien could snap a reply, "I was willing to lose my mate to another male. I was willing to let them marry, if it brought her joy. But what I was not willing to do was let her suffer. To let her fade away into a shadow. And the moment that piece of shit blew apart his study, the moment he locked her in that house ..." His wings ripped from him, and Lucien started. Rhys bared his teeth. My limbs turned light, trembling at the dark power curling in the corners of the room. Not fear-- never fear of him. But at the shattered control as Rhys snarled at Lucien, "My mate may one day find it in herself to forgive him. Forgive you. But I will never forget how it felt to sense her terror in those moments." My cheeks heated, especially as Cassian and Azriel stalked closer, those hazel eyes now filled with a mix of sympathy and wrath. I had never talked about it to them--what had gone on that day Tamlin had destroyed his study, or the day he'd sealed me inside the manor. I'd never asked Rhys if he'd informed them. From the fury rippling from Cassian, the cold rage seeping from Azriel ... I didn't think so. Lucien, to his credit, didn't back away a step. From Rhys, or me, or the Illyrians. The Clever Fox Stares Down Winged Death. The painting flashed into my mind. "So, again, I will say this only once," Rhys went on, his expression smoothing into lethal calm, dragging me from the colors and light and shadows gathering in my mind. "Feyre did not dishonor or betray Tamlin. I revealed the mating bond months later--and she gave me hell for it, don't worry. But now that you've found your mate in a similar situation, perhaps you will try to understand how it felt. And if you can't be bothered, then I hope you're wise enough to keep your mouth shut, because the next time you look at my mate with that disdain and disgust, I won't bother to explain it again, and I will rip out your fucking throat." Rhys said it so mildly that the threat took a second to register. To settle in me like a stone plunked into a pool. Lucien only shifted on his feet. Wary. Considering. I counted the heartbeats, debating how much I'd interfere if he said something truly stupid, when he at last murmured, "There is a longer story to be told, it seems." Smart answer. The rage ebbed from Rhys's face--and Cassian's and Azriel's shoulders relaxed ever so slightly. Just once, Lucien had said to me, during those days on the run. That was all he wanted--to see Elain only once. And then ... I'd have to figure out what to do with him. Unless my mate already had some plan in motion. One look at Rhys, who lifted his brows as if to say He's all yours, told me it was my call. But until then ... I cleared my throat. "I'm going to see my sisters up at the House," I said to Lucien, whose eyes snapped to mine, the metal one tightening and whirring. I forced a grim smile to my face. "Would you like to come?" Lucien weighed my offer--and the three males monitoring his every blink and breath. He only nodded. Another wise decision. We were gone within minutes, the quick walk up to the roof of the town house serving as Lucien's tour of my home. I didn't bother to point out the bedrooms. Lucien certainly didn't ask. Azriel left us as we took to the skies, murmuring that he had some pressing business to attend to. From the glare Cassian gave him, I wondered if the shadowsinger had invented it to avoid carrying Lucien to the House of Wind, but Rhys's subtle nod to Azriel told me enough. There were indeed matters afoot. Plans in motion, as they always were. And once I finished visiting my sisters ... I'd get answers of my own. So Cassian bore a stone-faced Lucien into the skies, and Rhys swept me into his arms, shooting us gracefully into the cloudless blue. With every wing beat, with every deep inhale of the citrus- and-salt breeze ... some tightness in my body uncoiled. Even if every wing beat brought us closer to the House looming above Velaris. To my sisters. The House of Wind had been carved into the red, sun-warmed stone of the flat-topped mountains that lurked over one edge of the city, with countless balconies and patios jutting to overhang the thousand-foot drop to the valley floor. Velaris's winding streets flowed right to the sheer wall of the mountain itself, and snaking through it wove the Sidra, a glittering, bright band in the midday sun. As we landed on the veranda that edged our usual dining room, Cassian and Lucien alighting behind us, I let it sink in: the city and the river and the distant sea, the jagged mountains on the other side of Velaris and the blazing blue of the sky above. And the House of Wind, my other home. The grand, formal sister to the town house--our public home, I supposed. Where we would hold meetings and receive guests who weren't family. A far more pleasant alternative to my other residence. The Court of Nightmares. At least there, I could stay in the moonstone palace high atop the mountain under which the Hewn City had been built. Though the people I'd rule over ... I shut them from my thoughts as I adjusted my braid, tucking in strands that had been whipped free by the gentle wind Rhys had allowed through his shield while flying. Lucien just walked to the balcony rail and stared out. I didn't quite blame him. I glanced over a shoulder to where Rhys and Cassian now stood. Rhys lifted a brow. Wait inside. Rhys's smile was sharp. So you wont have any witnesses when you push him over the railing? I gave him an incredulous look and strode for Lucien, Rhys's murmur to Cassian about getting a drink in the dining room the only indication of their departure. That, and the near- silent opening and closing of the glass doors that led into the dining room beyond. The same room where I'd first met most of them--my new family. I came up beside Lucien, the wind ripping strands of his red hair free from where he'd tied it at his nape. "This isn't what I expected," he said, taking in the sprawl of Velaris. "The city is still rebuilding after the Hybern attack." His eyes dropped to the carved balcony rail. "Even though we had no part in that ... I'm sorry. But--that's not what I meant." He glanced behind us, to where Rhys and Cassian waited inside the dining room, drinks now in hand, leaning all too casually against the giant oak table in its center. They became immensely interested in some spot or stain on the surface between them. I scowled at them, but swallowed. And even though my sisters waited inside, even though the urge to see them was so tangible I wouldn't have been surprised to find a rope tugging me into the House, I said to Lucien, "Rhys saved my life on Calanmai." So I told him. All of it--the story that perhaps would help him understand. And realize how truly safe Elain was--he now was. I eventually summoned Rhys to explain his own history--and he gave Lucien the barest details. None of the vulnerable, sorrowful bits that had reduced me to tears in that mountain cabin. But it painted a clear enough picture. Lucien said nothing while Rhys spoke. Or when I continued with my tale, Cassian often chiming in with his own account of how it'd been to live with two mated-yet-un-mated people, to pretend Rhys wasn't courting me, to welcome me into their little circle. I didn't know how long had passed when we finished, though Rhys and Cassian used the time to unabashedly sun their wings by the open balcony ledge. I left off our story at Hybern--at the day I'd gone back to the Spring Court. Silence fell, and Rhys and Cassian again walked away, understanding the emotion swimming in Lucien's eye--the meaning of the long breath he blew out. When we were alone, Lucien rubbed his eyes. "I've seen Rhysand do such ... horrible things, seen him play the dark prince over and over. And yet you tell me it was all a lie. A mask. All to protect this place, these people. And I would have laughed at you for believing it, and yet ... this city exists. Untouched--or until recently, I suppose. Even the Dawn Court's cities are nothing so lovely as this." "TLucien--" "And you love him. And he--he truly does love you." Lucien dragged a hand through his red hair. "And all these people I have spent my centuries hating, even fearing ... They are your family." "I think Amren would probably deny that she feels any affection for us--" "Amren is a bedtime story they told us as younglings to make us behave. Amren was who would drink my blood and carry me to hell if I acted out of line. And yet there she was, acting more like a cranky old aunt than anything." "We don't--we don't enforce protocol and rank here." "Obviously. Rhys lives in a town house, by the Cauldron." He waved an arm to encompass the city. I didn't know what to say, so I kept silent. "I hadn't realized I was a villain in your narrative," Lucien breathed. "You weren't." Not entirely. The sun danced on the distant sea, turning the horizon into a glittering sprawl of light. "She doesn't know anything about you. Only the basics that Rhys gave her: you are a High Lord's son, serving in the Spring Court. And you helped me Under the Mountain. Nothing else." I didn't add that Rhys had told me my sister hadn't asked about him at all. I straightened. "I would like to see them first. I know you're anxious--" "Just do it," Lucien said, bracing his forearms on the stone rail of the veranda. "Come get me when she's ready." I almost patted his shoulder--almost said something reassuring. But words failed me again as I headed for the dim interior of the House. Rhys had given Nesta and Elain a suite of connecting rooms, all with views overlooking the city and river and distant mountains beyond. But it was in the family library that Rhys tracked down Nesta. There was a coiled, razor-sharp tension in Cassian as the three of us strode down the stairways of the House, the red stone halls dim and echoing with the rustle of Cassian's wings and the faint howl of wind rattling at every window. A tension that grew more taut with every step toward the double doors of the library. I hadn't asked if they had seen each other, or spoken, since that day in Hybern. Cassian volunteered no information. And I might have asked Rhys down the bond had he not opened one of the doors. Had I not immediately spied Nesta curled in an armchair, a book on her knees, looking--for once--very un-Nesta-like. Casual. Perhaps relaxed. Perfectly content to be alone. The moment my shoes scuffed against the stone floor, she shot straight up, back going stiff, closing her book with a muffled thud. Yet her gray-blue eyes didn't so much as widen as they beheld me. As I took her in. Nesta had been beautiful as a human woman. As High Fae, she was devastating. From the utter stillness with which Cassian stood beside me, I wondered if he thought the same thing. She was in a pewter-colored gown, its make simple, yet the material fine. Her hair was braided over the crown of her head, accentuating her long, pale neck--a neck Cassian's eyes darted to, then quickly away from, as she sized us up and said to me, "You're back." With her hair styled like that, it hid the pointed ears. But there was nothing to hide the ethereal grace as she took one step. As her focus again returned to Cassian and she added, "What do you want?" I felt the blow like a punch to my gut. "At least immortality hasn't changed some things about you." Nesta's look was nothing short of icy. "Is there a purpose to this visit, or may I return to my book?" Rhys's hand brushed mine in silent comfort. But his face ... hard as stone. And even less amused. But Cassian sauntered over to Nesta, a half smile spreading across his face. She stood stiffly while he picked up the book, read the title, and chuckled. "I wouldn't have pegged you for a romance reader." She gave him a withering glare. Cassian leafed through the pages and drawled to me, "You haven't missed much while you were off destroying our enemies, Feyre. It's mostly been this." Nesta whirled to me. "You--accomplished it?" I clenched my jaw. "We'll see how it plays out. I made sure Ianthe suffered." At the hint of rage and fear that crept into Nesta's eyes, I amended, "Not enough, though." I glanced at her hand--the one she'd pointed with at the King of Hybern. Rhys had mentioned no signs of special powers from either of my sisters. Yet that day in Hybern, when Nesta had opened her eyes ... I had seen it. Seen something great and terrible within them. "And, again, why are you here?" She snatched her book from Cassian, who allowed her to do so, but remained standing beside her. Watching every breath, every blink. "I wanted to see you," I said quietly. "See how you were doing." "See if I've accepted my lot and found myself grateful for becoming one of them?" I steeled my spine. "You're my sister. I watched them hurt you. I wanted to see if you were all right." A low, bitter laugh. But she turned to Cassian, looked him over as if she were a queen on a throne, and then declared to all of us, "What do I care? I get to be young and beautiful forever, and I never have to go back to those sycophantic fools over the wall. I get to do as I wish, since apparently no one here has any regard for rules or manners or our traditions. Perhaps I should thank you for dragging me into this." Rhys put a hand on the small of my back before the words even struck their target. Nesta snorted. "But it's not me you should be checking on. I had as little at stake on the other side of the wall as I do here." Hate rippled over her features--enough hate that I felt sick. Nesta hissed. "She will not leave her room. She will not stop crying. She will not eat, or sleep, or drink." Rhys's jaw clenched. "I have asked you over and over if you needed--" "Why should I allow any of you'"--the last word was shot at Cassian with as much venom as a pit viper--"to get near her? It is no one's business but our own." "Elain's mate is here," I said. And it was the wrong thing to utter in Nesta's presence. She went white with rage. "He is no such thing to her," she snarled, advancing on me enough that Rhys slid a shield into place between us. As if he, too, had glimpsed that mighty power in her eyes that day in Hybern. And did not know how it would manifest. "If you bring that male anywhere near her, I'll--" "You'll what?" Cassian crooned, trailing her at a casual pace as she stopped perhaps five feet from me. He lifted a brow as she whirled on him. "You won't join me for practice, so you sure as hell aren't going to hold your own in a fight. You won't talk about your powers, so you certainly aren't going to be able to wield them. And you--" "Shut your mouth," she snapped, every inch the conquering empress. "I told you to stay the hell away from me, and if you "You come between a male and his mate, Nesta Archeron, and you're going to learn about the consequences the hard way. Nesta's nostrils flared. Cassian only gave her a crooked grin. I cut in, "If Elain is not up for it, then she won't see him. I won't force the meeting on her. But he does wish to see her, Nesta. I'll ask on his behalf, but the decision will be hers." "The male who sold us out to Hybern." "It's more complicated than that." "Well, it will certainly be more complicated when Father returns and finds us gone. What do you plan to tell him about all this?" "Seeing as he hasn't sent word from the continent in months, I'll worry about that later," I sniped back. And thank the Cauldron for it--that he was off trading in some lucrative territory. Nesta only shook her head, turning toward the chair and her book. "I don't care. Do what you want." A stinging dismissal, if not admission that she still trusted me enough to consider Elain's needs first. Rhys jerked his chin at Cassian in a silent order to leave, and as I followed them, I said softly, "I'm sorry, Nesta." She didn't answer as she sat stiffly in her chair, picked up her book, and dutifully ignored us. A blow to the face would have been better. When I looked ahead, I found Cassian staring back at Nesta as well. I wondered why no one had yet mentioned what now shone in Cassian's eyes as he gazed at my sister. The sorrow. And the longing. The suite was filled with sunlight. Every curtain shoved back as far as it could go, to let in as much sun as possible. As if any bit of darkness was abhorrent. As if to chase it away. And seated in a small chair before the sunniest of the windows, her back to us, was Elain. Where Nesta had been in contented silence before we found her, Elain's silence was ... hollow. Empty. Her hair was down--not even braided. I couldn't remember the last time I'd seen it unbound. She wore a moon-white silk dressing robe. She did not look, or speak, or even flinch as we entered. Her too-thin arms rested on her chair. That iron engagement ring still encircled her finger. Her skin was so pale it looked like fresh snow in the harsh light. I realized then that the color of death, of sorrow, was white. The lack of color. Of vibrancy. I left Cassian and Rhys by the door. Nesta's rage was better than this ... shell. This void. My breath caught as I edged around her chair. Beheld the city view she stared so blankly at. Then beheld the hollowed-out cheeks, the bloodless lips, the brown eyes that had once been rich and warm, and now seemed utterly dull. Like grave dirt. She didn't so much as look at me as I said softly, "Elain?" I didn't dare reach for her hand. I didn't dare get too close. I had done this. I had brought this upon them-- "I'm back," I added a bit limply. Uselessly. All she said was, "I want to go home." I closed my eyes, my chest unbearably tight. "I know." "He'll be looking for me," she whispered. "I know," I said again. Not Lucien--she wasn't talking about him at all. "We were supposed to be married next week." I put a hand on my chest, as if it'd stop the cracking in there. "I'm sorry." Nothing. Not even a flicker of emotion. "Everyone keeps saying that." Her thumb brushed the ring on her finger. "But it doesn't fix anything, does it?" I couldn't get enough air in. I couldn't--I couldn't breathe, looking at this broken, carved-out thing my sister had become. What I'd robbed her of, what I'd taken from her-- Rhys was there, an arm sliding around my waist. "Can we get you anything, Elain?" He spoke with such gentleness I could barely stand it. "I want to go home," she repeated. I couldn't ask her--about Lucien. Not now. Not yet. I turned away, fully prepared to bolt and completely fall apart in another room, another section of the House. But Lucien was standing in the doorway. And from the devastation on his face, I knew he'd heard every word. Seen and heard and felt the hollowness and despair radiating from her. Elain had always been gentle and sweet--and I had considered it a different sort of strength. A better strength. To look at the hardness of the world and choose, over and over, to love, to be kind. She had been always so full of light. Perhaps that was why she now kept all the curtains open. To fill the void that existed where all of that light had once been. And now nothing remained. <|title|>Chapter 16 <|startofchapter|>Rhysand silently led Lucien to the suite he'd be occupying at the opposite end of the House of Wind. Cassian and I trailed behind, none of us speaking until my mate opened a set of onyx doors to reveal a sunny sitting room carved from more red stone. Beyond the wall of windows, the city flowed far below, the view stretching to the distant jagged mountains and glittering sea. Rhys paused in the center of a midnight-blue handwoven rug and gestured to the sealed doors on his left. "Bedroom." He waved a lazy hand toward the single door on the opposite wall. "Bathing room." Lucien surveyed it all with cool indifference. What he felt about Elain, what he planned to do ... I didn't want to ask. "I assume you'll need clothes," Rhys went on, nodding toward Lucien's filthy jacket and pants--which he'd worn for the past week while we scrambled through territories. Indeed, that was ... blood splattered in several spots. "Any preferences for attire?" That drew Lucien's attention, the male shifting enough to take in Rhys--to note Cassian and me lurking in the doorway. "Ts there a cost?" "If you're trying to say that you have no money, don't worry--the clothes are complimentary." Rhys gave him a half smile. "If you're trying to ask if this is some sort of bribe ..." A shrug. "You are a High Lord's son. It would be bad manners not to house and clothe you in your time of need." Lucien bristled. Stop baiting him, I shot down the bond. But its so fun, came the purred reply. Something had rattled him. Rattled Rhys enough that taunting Lucien was an easy way to take the edge off. I stepped closer, Cassian remaining behind me as I told Lucien, "We'll be back for dinner in a few hours. Rest a while--bathe. If you need anything, pull that rope by the door." Lucien stiffened--not at what I'd said, I realized, but at the tone. A hostess. But he asked, "What of--Elain?" Your call, Rhys offered. "I need to think about it," I answered plainly. "Until I figure out what to do with her, with Nesta, stay out of their way." I added perhaps too tightly, "This house is warded against winnowing, both from outside and within. There's one way out --the stairs to the city. It, too, is warded--and guarded. Please don't do anything stupid." "So am I a prisoner?" I could feel the response simmering in Rhys, but I shook my head. "No. But understand while you may be her mate, Elain is my sister. I'll do what I must to protect her from further harm." "I would never hurt her." A bleak sort of honesty in his words. I simply nodded, loosening a breath, and met Rhysand's stare in silent urging. My mate gave no indication of my wordless plea as he said, "You are free to wander where you wish, into the city itself if you feel like braving the stairs, but there are two conditions: you are not to take either sister, and you are not to enter their floor. If you require a book from the library, you will ask the servants. If you wish to speak to Elain or Nesta, you will also ask the servants, who will ask us. If you disregard those rules, I'll lock you in a room with Amren." Then Rhys turned away, hands sliding into his pockets as he offered his hooked elbow to me. I looped my arm through his, but said to Lucien, "We'll see you in a few hours." We were almost to the door, Cassian already in the hall, when Lucien said to me, "Thank you." I didn't dare ask him for what. We flew right to Amren's loft, more than a few people waving as we soared over the rooftops of Velaris. My smile wasn't faked when I waved back to them--my people. Rhys only held me a bit tighter while I did so, his own smile as bright as the sun on the Sidra. Mor and Azriel were already waiting inside Amren's apartment, seated like scolded children on the threadbare divan against the wall while the dark-haired female flipped through the pages of books sprawled around her on the floor. Mor gave me a grateful, relieved look as we entered, Azriel's own face revealing nothing while he stood, keeping a careful, too-casual distance from her side. But it was Amren who said from the floor, "You should kill Beron and his sons and set up the handsome one as High Lord of Autumn, self- imposed exile or no. It will make life easier." "I'll take that into consideration," Rhys said, striding toward her while I remained with the others. If they were hanging back ... Amren had to be in some mood. I blew out a breath. "Who else thinks it's a terrible idea to leave the three of them up at the House of Wind?" Cassian raised his hand as Rhys and Mor chuckled. The High Lord's general said, "I give him an hour before he tries to see her." "Thirty minutes," Mor countered, sitting back down on the divan and crossing her legs. I cringed. "I guarantee Nesta is now guarding Elain. I think she might honestly kill him if he so much as tries to touch her." "Not without training she won't," Cassian grumbled, tucking in his wings as he claimed the seat beside Mor that Azriel had vacated. The shadowsinger didn't so much as look at it. No, Azriel just walked to the wall beside Cassian and leaned against the wood paneling. But Rhys and the others remained quiet enough that I knew to proceed carefully as I asked Cassian, "Nesta spoke as if you've been up at the House ... often. You've offered to train her?" Cassian's hazel eyes shuttered as he crossed a booted ankle over another, stretching his muscled legs before him. "I go up there every other day. It's good exercise for my wings." Those wings shifted in emphasis. Not a scratch marred them. "And?" "And what you saw in the library is a pleasanter version of the conversation we always have." Mor's lips pressed into a thin line, as if she was trying her best not to say anything. Azriel was trying his best to shoot a warning stare at Mor to remind her to indeed keep her mouth shut. As if they'd already discussed this. Many times. "I don't blame her," Cassian said, shrugging despite his words. "She was--violated. Her body stopped belonging wholly to her." His jaw clenched. Even Amren didn't dare say anything. "And I am going to peel the King of Hybern's skin off his bones the next time I see him." His Siphons flickered in answer. Rhys said casually, "I'm sure the king will thoroughly enjoy the experience." Cassian glowered. "I mean it." "Oh, I have no doubt that you do." Rhys's violet eyes were dazzling in the dimness of the loft. "But before you lose yourself in plans for revenge, do remember that we have a war to plan first." "Asshole." A corner of my mate's mouth tugged upward. And--Rhys was goading him, working Cassian into a temper to keep that brittle edge of guilt from consuming him. The others letting him take on the task, likely having done it several times themselves these weeks. "I am most definitely that," Rhys said, "but the fact still remains that revenge is secondary to winning this war." Cassian opened his mouth as if he'd keep arguing, but Rhys peered at the books scattered on the lush carpet. "Nothing?" he asked Amren. "I don't know why you sent those two buffoons'"--a narrowed glance toward Mor and Azriel--"to monitor me." So this was where Azriel had gone--right to the loft. To no doubt spare Mor from enduring Amren Duty alone. But Amren's tone ... cranky, yes, but perhaps a bit of a front, too. To banish that too-fragile gleam in Cassian's eyes. "We're not monitoring you," Mor said, tapping her foot on the carpet. "We're monitoring the Book." And as she said it ... I felt it. Heard it. Amren had placed the Book of Breathings on her nightstand. A glass of old blood atop it. I didn't know whether to laugh or cringe. The latter won out as the Book murmured, Hello, sweet-faced liar. Hello, princess with-- "Oh, be quiet," Amren hissed toward the Book, who--shut up. "Odious thing," she muttered, and went back to the tome before her. Rhys gave me a wry smile. "Since the two halves of the Book were joined back together, it has been ... known to speak every now and then." "What does it say?" "Utter nonsense," Amren spat, scowling at the Book. "It just likes to hear itself talk. Like most of the people cramping up my apartment." Cassian smirked. "Did someone forget to feed Amren again?" She pointed a warning finger at him without so much as looking up. "Is there a reason, Rhysand, why you dragged your yapping pack into my home?" Her home was little more than a giant, converted attic, but none of us dared argue as Mor, Cassian, and Azriel finally came closer, forming a small circle around Amren's sprawl in the center of the room. Rhys said to me, "The information you got from Dagdan and Brannagh confirms what we've been gathering ourselves while you were gone. Especially Hybern's potential allies in other territories--on the continent." "Vultures," Mor muttered, and Cassian looked inclined to agree. But Rhys--Rhys had indeed been spying, while Azriel had been-- Rhys snorted. "I can stay hidden, mate." I glared at him, but Azriel cut in. "Having Hybern's movements confirmed by you, Feyre, is what we needed." Cassian crossed his arms. "We barely stand a chance of surviving Hybern's armies on our own. If armies from Vallahan, Montesere, and Rask join them ..." He drew a line across his tan throat. Mor elbowed him in the ribs. Cassian nudged her right back as Azriel shook his head at both of them, shadows coiling around the tips of his wings. "Are those three territories ... that powerful?" Perhaps it was a foolish question, showing how little I knew of the faerie lands on the continent-- "Yes," Azriel said, no judgment in his hazel eyes. "Vallahan has the numbers, Montesere has the money, and Rask ... it is large enough to have both." "And we have no potential allies amongst the other overseas territories?" Rhys pulled at a stray thread on the cuff of his black jacket. "Not ones that would sail here to help." My stomach turned. "What of Miryam and Drakon?" He'd once refused to consider, but-- "You fought for Miryam and Drakon centuries ago," I said to Rhys. He'd done a great deal more than that, if Jurian was to be believed. "Perhaps it's time to call in that debt." But Rhys shook his head. "We tried. Azriel went to Cretea." The island where Miryam, Drakon, and their unified human and Fae peoples had secretly lived for the past five centuries. "It was abandoned," Azriel said. "In ruin. With no trace of what happened or where they went." "You think Hybern--" "There was no sign of Hybern, or of any harm," Mor cut in, her face taut. They had been her friends, too--during the War. Miryam, and Drakon, and the human queens who had gotten the Treaty signed. And it was worry--true, deep worry--that guttered in her brown eyes. In all their eyes. "Then do you think they heard about Hybern and ran?" I asked. Drakon had a winged legion, Rhys had once told me. If there was any chance of finding them-- "The Drakon and Miryam I knew wouldn't have run--not from this," Rhys said. Mor leaned forward, her golden hair spilling over her shoulders. "But with Jurian now a player in this conflict ... Miryam and Drakon, whether they like it or not, have always been tied to him. I don't blame them for running, if he truly hunts them." Rhys's face slackened for a heartbeat. "That is what the King of Hybern has on Jurian," he murmured. "Why Jurian works for him." My brow furrowed. "Miryam died--a spear through her chest during that last battle at the sea," Rhys explained. "She bled out while she was carried to safety. But Drakon knew of a sacred, hidden island where an object of great and terrible power had been concealed. An object made by the Cauldron itself, legend claimed. He brought her there, to Cretea--used the item to resurrect her, make her immortal. As you were Made, Feyre." Amren had said it--months ago. That Miryam had been Made as I was. Amren seemed to remember it, too, as she said, "The King of Hybern must have promised Jurian to use the Cauldron to track the item. To where Miryam and Drakon now live. Perhaps they figured that out--and left as fast as they could." And for revenge, for that insane rage that hounded Jurian ... he'd do whatever the King of Hybern asked. So he could kill Miryam himself. "But where did they go?" I looked to Azriel, the shadowsinger still standing with preternatural stillness against the wall. "You found no trace at all of where they might have vanished to?" "None," Rhys answered for him. "We've sent messengers back since--to no avail." I rubbed at my face, sealing off that path of hope. "Then if they are not a possible ally ... How do we keep those other territories on the continent from joining with Hybern--from sending their armies here?" I winced. "That's our plan--isn't it?" Rhys smiled grimly. "It is. One we've been working on while you were away." I waited, trying not to pace as Amren's silver eyes seemed to glow with amusement. "I looked at Hybern first. At its people. As best I could." He'd gone to Hybern-- Rhys smirked at the concern flaring across my face. "I'd hoped that Hybern might have some internal conflict to exploit --to get them to collapse from within. That its people might not want this war, might see it as costly and dangerous and unnecessary. But five hundred years on that island, with little trade, little opportunity ... Hybern's people are hungry for change. Or rather ... a change back to the old days, when they had human slaves to do their work, when there were no barriers keeping them from what they now perceive as their right." Amren slammed shut the book she'd been perusing. "Fools." She shook her head, inky hair swaying, as she scowled up at me. "Hybern's wealth has been dwindling for centuries. Most of their trade routes before the War dealt with the South--with the Black Land. But once it went to the humans ... We don't know if Hybern's king deliberately failed to establish new trade routes and opportunities for his people in order to one day fuel this war, or if he was just that shortsighted and let everything fall apart. But for centuries now, Hybern's people have been festering. Hybern let their resentment of their growing stagnation and poverty fester." "There are many High Fae," Mor said carefully, "who believed before the War, and still believe now, that humans ... that they are property. There were many High Fae who knew nothing but privilege thanks to those slaves. And when that privilege was ripped away from them, when they were forced to leave their homelands or forced to make room for other High Fae and re-form territories--create new ones--above that wall ... They have not forgotten that anger, even centuries later. Especially not in places like Hybern, where their territory and population remained mostly untouched by change. They were one of the few who did not have to yield any land to the wall--and did not yield any land to the Fae territories now looking for a new home. Isolated, growing poorer, with no slaves to do their labor ... Hybern has long viewed the days before the War as a golden era. And these centuries since as a dark age." I rubbed at my chest. "They're all insane, to think that." Rhys nodded. "Yes--they certainly are. But don't forget that their king has encouraged these limited world views. He did not expand their trade routes, did not allow other territories to take any of his land and bring their cultures. He considered where things went wrong for the Loyalists in the War. How they ultimately yielded not from being overwhelmed but because they began arguing amongst themselves. Hybern has had a long, long while to think on those mistakes. And how to avoid them at any cost. So he made sure his people are completely for this war, completely for the idea of the wall coming down, because they think it will somehow restore this ... gilded vision of the past. Hybern's people see their king and their armies not as conquerors, but as liberators of High Fae and those who stand with them." Nausea churned in my gut. "How can anyone believe that?" Azriel ran a scarred hand through his hair. "That's what we've been learning. Listening in Hybern. And in territories like Rask and Montesere and Vallahan." "We're to be made an example of, girl," Amren explained. "Prythian. We were among the fiercest defenders and negotiators of the Treaty. Hybern wants to claim Prythian not only to clear the path to the continent, but to make an example of what happens to High Fae territories that defend the Treaty." "But surely other territories would protect it," I said, scanning their faces. "Not as many as we'd hoped," Rhys admitted, wincing. "There are many--too many--who have also felt squashed and suffocated during these centuries. They want their old lands back beneath the wall, and the power and prosperity that came with it. Their vision of the past has been colored by five hundred years of struggling to adjust and thrive." "Perhaps we did them a disservice," Mor mused, "in not sharing enough of our wealth, our territory. Perhaps we are to blame for allowing some of this to rot and fester." "That remains to be discussed," Amren said, waving a delicate hand. "The point is that we are not facing an army hell-bent on destruction. They are hell-bent on what they believe is Jiberation. Of High Fae stifled by the wall, and what they believe still belongs to them." I swallowed. "So how do the other territories play into it-- the three Hybern claims will ally with them?" I looked between Rhys and Azriel. "You said you were ... over there?" Rhys shrugged. "Over there, in Hybern, in the other territories ..." He winked at my gaping mouth. "I had to keep myself busy to avoid missing you." Mor rolled her eyes. But it was Cassian who said, "We can't afford to let those three territories join with Hybern. If they send armies to Prythian, we're done." "So what do we do?" Rhys leaned against the carved post of Amren's bed. "We've been keeping them busy." He jerked his chin to Azriel. "We planted information--truth and lies and a blend of both-- for them to find. And also scattered some of it among our old allies, who are now balking at supporting us." Azriel's smile was a Slash of white. Lies and truth--the shadowsinger and his spies had sowed them in foreign courts. My brow narrowed. "You've been playing the territories on the continent off each other?" "We've been making sure that they're kept busy with each other," Cassian said, a hint of wicked humor glinting in his hazel eyes. "Making sure that longtime enemies and rival- nations of Rask, Vallahan, and Montesere have suddenly received information that has them worried about being attacked. And raising their own defenses. Which in turn has made Rask, Vallahan, and Montesere start looking toward their own borders and not our own." "If our allies from the War are too scared to come here to fight," Mor said, folding her arms over her chest, "then as long as they're keeping the others occupied--keeping them from sailing here--we don't care." I blinked at them. At Rhys. Brilliant. Utterly brilliant, to keep them so focused and fearful of each other that they stayed away. "So ... they won't be coming?" "We can only pray," Amren said. "And pray we deal with this fast enough that they don't figure out we've played them all." "What of the human queens, though?" I chewed on the tip of my thumb. "They have to be aware that no bargain with Hybern would ultimately work to their advantage." Mor braced her forearms on her thighs. "Who knows what Hybern promised them--lied about? He already granted them immortality through the Cauldron in exchange for their cooperation. If they were foolish enough to agree to it, then I don't doubt they've already thrown open the gates to him." "But we don't know that for certain," Amren countered. "And none of it explains why they've been so quiet--locked up in that palace." Rhys and Azriel shook their heads in silent confirmation. I surveyed them, their fading amusement. "It drives you mad, doesn't it, that no one has been able to get inside that palace." A low growl from both of them before Azriel muttered, "You have no idea." Amren just clicked her tongue, her upswept eyes settling on me. "Those Hybern commanders were fools to reveal their plans in regard to breaking the wall. Or perhaps they knew the information would return to us, and their master wants us to stew." I angled my head. "You mean shattering the wall through the holes already in it?" A bob of her sharp chin as she gestured to the books around her. "It's complex spell work--a loophole through the magic that binds the wall." "And it implies," Mor said, frowning deeply, "that something might be amiss with the Cauldron." I raised my brows, considering. "Because the Cauldron should be able to bring that wall down on its own, right?" "Right," Rhysand said, striding to the Book on the nightstand. He didn't dare touch it. "Why bother seeking out those holes to help the Cauldron when he could unleash its power and be done with it?" "Maybe he used too much of its power transforming my sisters and those queens." "It's likely," Rhys said, stalking back to my side. "But if he's going to exploit those tears in the wall, we need to find a way to fix them before he can act." I asked Amren, "Are there spells to patch it up?" "Pm looking," she said through her teeth. "It'd help if someone dragged their ass to a library to do more research." "We are at your disposal," Cassian offered with a mock bow. "I wasn't aware you could read," Amren said sweetly. "It could be a fool's errand," Azriel cut in before Cassian could voice the retort dancing in his eyes. "To get us to focus on the wall as a decoy--while he strikes from another direction." I grimaced at the Book. "Why not just try to nullify the Cauldron again?" "Because it nearly killed you the last time," Rhys said in a sort of calm, steady voice that told me enough: there was no way in hell he'd risk me attempting it again. I straightened. "I wasn't prepared in Hybern. None of us were. If I tried again--" Mor cut in. "If you tried again, it might very well kill you. Not to mention, we'd have to actually get to the Cauldron, which isn't an option." "The king," Azriel clarified at my furrowed brow, "won't allow the Cauldron out of his sight. And he's rigged it with more spells and traps than the last time." I opened my mouth to object, but the shadowsinger added, "We looked into it. It's not a viable path." I believed him--the stark honesty in those hazel eyes was confirmation enough that they'd weighed it thoroughly. "Well, if it's too risky to nullify the Cauldron," I mused, "then can I somehow fix the wall? If the wall was made by faeries coming together, and my very magic is a blend of so many ..." Amren considered in the silence that fell. "Perhaps. The relationship would be tenuous, but ... yes, perhaps you could patch it up. Though your sisters, directly forged by the Cauldron itself, might bear the sort of magic we--" "My sisters play no part in this." Another beat of silence, interrupted only by the rustle of Azriel's wings. "I asked them to help once--and look what happened. I won't risk them again." Amren snorted. "You sound exactly like Tamlin." I felt the words like a blow. Rhys slid a hand against my back, having appeared so fast I didn't see him move. But before he could reply, Mor said quietly, "Don't you ever say that sort of bullshit again, Amren." There was nothing on Mor's face beyond cold calm--fury. I'd never seen her look so ... terrifying. She had been furious with the mortal queens, but this ... This was the face of the High Lord's third in command. "If you're cranky because you're hungry, then tell us," Mor went on with that frozen quiet. "But if you say anything like that again, I will throw you in the gods-damned Sidra." "I'd like to see you try." A little smile was Mor's only answer. Amren slid her attention to me. "We need your sisters--if not for this, then to convince others to join us, of the risk. Since any would-be ally might have some ... difficulty believing us after so many years of lies." "Apologize," said Mor. "Mor," I murmured. "Apologize," she hissed at Amren. Amren said nothing. Mor took a step toward her, and I said, "She's right." They both looked to me, brows raised. I swallowed. "Amren is right." I walked out of Rhys's touch--realizing he'd kept silent to let me sort it out. Let me figure out how to deal with both of them, as family, but mostly as their High Lady. Mor's face tightened, but I shook my head. "I can--ask my sisters. See if they have any sort of power. See if they'd be willing to ... talk to others about what they endured. But I won't force them to help, if they do not wish to participate. The choice will be theirs." I glanced at my mate--the male who had always presented me with a choice not as a gift, but as my own gods-given right. Rhys's violet eyes flickered in acknowledgment. "But I'll make our ... desperation clear." Amren huffed, hardly more than a bird of prey puffing its feathers. "Compromise, Amren," Rhys purred. "Its called compromise." She ignored him. "If you want to start convincing your sisters, get them out of the House. Being cooped up never helped anyone." Rhys said smoothly, "I'm not entirely sure Velaris is prepared for Nesta Archeron." "My sister's not some feral animal," I snapped. Rhys recoiled a bit, the others suddenly finding the carpet, the divan, the books incredibly fascinating. "I didn't mean that." I didn't answer. Mor frowned in disapproval at Rhys, who I felt watching me carefully, but asked me, "What of Elain?" I shifted slightly, pushing past the words still hanging between me and Rhys. "I can ask, but ... she might not be ready to be around so many people." I clarified, "She was supposed to be married next week." "So she keeps saying, over and over," Amren grumbled. I shot her a glare. "Careful." Amren blinked up at me in surprise. But I went on, "So, we need to find a way to patch up the wall before Hybern uses the Cauldron to break it. And fight this war before any other territories join Hybern's assault. And eventually get the Cauldron itself. Anything else?" Rhys said behind me, his own voice carefully casual, "That covers it. As soon as a force can be assembled, we take on Hybern." "The Illyrian legions are nearly ready," Cassian said. "No," Rhys said. "I mean a bigger force. A force not just from the Night Court, but from all of Prythian. Our only decent shot at finding allies in this war." None of us spoke, none of us moved as Rhys said simply, "Tomorrow, invitations go out to every High Lord in Prythian. For a meeting in two weeks. It's time we see who stands with us. And make sure they understand the consequences if they don't." <|title|>Chapter 17 <|startofchapter|>I let Cassian carry me to the House two hours later, just because he admitted he was still working to strengthen his wings and needed to push himself. Heat rippled off the tiled roofs and red stone as we soared high over them, the sea breeze a cool kiss against my face. We'd barely finished debating thirty minutes ago, only stopping when Mor's stomach had grumbled as loudly as a breaking thunderhead. We'd spent our time weighing the merits of where to meet, who to bring along to the meeting with the High Lords. Invitations would go out tomorrow--but not specify the meeting place. There was no point in selecting one, Rhys said, when the High Lords would no doubt refuse our initial selection and counter with their own choice of where to gather. All we had chosen was the day and the time--the two weeks a cushion against the bickering that was sure to ensue. The rest ... We'd just have to prepare for every possibility. We'd quickly returned to the town house to change before heading back up to the House--and I'd found Nuala and Cerridwen waiting in my room, smiles on their shadowy faces. I'd embraced them both, even if Rhys's hello had been less ... enthusiastic. Not for dislike of the half-wraiths, but ... I'd snapped at him. In Amren's apartment. He hadn't seemed angry, and yet ... I'd felt him carefully watching me these past few hours. It'd made it ... strange to look at him. Strange enough that the appetite I'd been steadily building had gone a bit queasy. I'd challenged him before, but ... not as High Lady. Not with the ... tone. So I didn't get to ask him about it as Nuala and Cerridwen helped me dress and he headed into the bathing room to wash up. Not that there was much finery to bother with. I'd opted for my Illyrian leather pants and a loose, white shirt--and a pair of embroidered slippers that Cassian kept snorting at as we flew. When he did so for the third time in two minutes, I pinched his arm and said, "It's hot. Those boots are stuffy." His brows rose, the portrait of innocence. "I didn't say anything." "You grunted. Again." "I've been living with Mor for five hundred years. I've learned the hard way not to question shoe choices." He smirked. "However stupid they may be." "It's dinner. Unless there's some battle planned afterward?" "Your sister will be there--I'd say that's battle aplenty." I casually studied his face, noting how hard he worked to keep his features neutral, to keep his gaze fixed anywhere but on my own. Rhys flew nearby, far enough to remain out of earshot as I said, "Would you use her to see if she can somehow fix the wall?" Hazel eyes shot to me, fierce and clear. "Yes. Not only for our sakes, but ... she needs to get out of the House. She needs to ..." Cassian's wings kept up a steady booming beat, the new sections only detectable by their lack of scarring. "She'll destroy herself if she stays cooped up in there." My chest tightened. "Do ..." I thought through my words. "The day she was changed, she ... I felt something different with her." I fought against the tensing in my muscles as I recalled those moments. The screaming and the blood and the nausea as I watched my sisters taken against their will, as I could do nothing, as we-- I swallowed down the fear, the guilt. "It was like ... everything she was, that steel and fire ... It became magnified. Cataclysmic. Like ... looking at a house cat and suddenly finding a panther standing there instead." I shook my head, as if it would clear away the memory of the predator, the rage simmering in those blue-gray eyes. "I will never forget those moments," Cassian said quietly, scenting or sensing the memories wreaking havoc on me. "As long as I live." "Have you seen any glimpse of it since?" "Nothing." The House loomed, golden lights at the walls of windows and doorways beckoning us closer. "But I can feel it --sometimes." He added a bit ruefully, "Usually when she's pissed at me. Which is ... most of the time." "Why?" They'd always been at each other's throats, but this ... yes, the dynamic between them had been different earlier. Sharper. Cassian shook his dark hair out of his eyes, slightly longer than the last time I'd seen it. "I don't think Nesta will ever forgive me for what happened in Hybern. To her--but mostly to Elain." "Your wings were shredded. You were barely alive." For that was guilt--ravaging and poisonous--in each of Cassian's words. What the others had been fighting against in the loft. "You were in no position to save anyone." "I made her a promise." The wind ruffled Cassian's hair as he squinted at the sky. "And when it mattered, I didn't keep it." I still dreamed of him trying to crawl toward her, reaching for her even in the semi-unconscious state the pain and blood loss had thrown him into. As Rhysand had once done for me during those last moments with Amarantha. Perhaps only a few wing beats separated us from the broad landing veranda, but I asked, "Why do you bother, Cassian?" His hazel eyes shuttered as we smoothly landed. And I thought he wouldn't answer, especially not as we heard the others already in the dining room beyond the veranda, especially not when Rhys gracefully landed beside us and strode in ahead with a wink. But Cassian said quietly as we headed for the dining room, "Because I can't stay away." Elain, not surprisingly, didn't leave her room. Nesta, surprisingly, did. It wasn't a formal dinner by any means--though Lucien, standing near the windows and watching the sun set over Velaris, was wearing a fine green jacket embroidered with gold, his cream-colored pants showing off muscled thighs, and his knee-high black boots polished enough that the chandeliers of faelight reflected off them. He'd always had a casual grace about him, but here, tonight, with his hair tied back and jacket buttoned to his neck, he truly looked the part of a High Lord's son. Handsome, powerful, a bit rakish--but well-mannered and elegant. I aimed for him as the others helped themselves to the wine breathing in decanters on the ancient wood table, keenly aware that while my friends chatted, they kept one eye on us. Lucien ran his one eye over me--my casual attire, then the Illyrians in their leathers, and Amren in her usual gray, and Mor in her flowing red gown, and said, "What is the dress code?" I shrugged, passing him the glass of wine I'd brought over. "It's ... whatever we feel like." That gold eye clicked and narrowed, then returned to the city ahead. "What did you do with yourself this afternoon?" "Slept," he said. "Washed. Sat on my ass." "I could give you a tour of the city tomorrow morning," I offered. "If you like." Never mind that we had a meeting to plan for. A wall to heal. A war to fight. I could set aside half a day. Show him why this place had become my home, why I had fallen in love with its ruler. As if sensing my thoughts, Lucien said, "You don't need to waste your time convincing me. I get it. I get ... I get that we were not what you wanted. Or needed. How small and isolated our home must have been for you, once you saw this." He jerked his chin toward the city, where lights were now sparking into view amid the falling twilight. "Who could compare?" I almost said Don't you mean what could compare? but held my tongue. His focus shifted behind me before he replied--and Lucien shut his mouth. His metal eye whirred softly. I followed his glance, and tried not to tense as Nesta stepped into the room. Yes, devastating was a good word for how lovely she'd become as High Fae. And in a long-sleeved, dark blue gown that clung to her curves before falling gracefully to the ground in a spill of fabric ... Cassian looked like someone had punched him in the gut. But Nesta stared right at me, the faelight shimmering along the silver combs in her upswept hair. The others, she dutifully ignored, chin lifting as she strode for us. I prayed that Mor and Amren, their brows high, wouldn't say any-- "Where did that dress come from?" Mor said, red gown flowing behind her as she breezed toward Nesta. My sister drew up short, shoulders tensing, readying to-- But Mor was already there, fingering the heavy blue fabric, surveying every stitch. "I want one," she pouted. Her attempt, no doubt, to segue into an invitation to shop for a larger wardrobe with me. As High Lady, I'd need clothes--fancier ones. Especially for this meeting. My sisters, too. Mor's brown eyes flicked to mine, and I had to fight the crushing gratitude that threatened to make my own burn as I approached them. "I assume my mate dug it up somewhere," I said, throwing a glance over my shoulder at Rhys, who was perched on the edge of the dining table, flanked by Az and Cassian, all three Illyrians pretending that they weren't listening to every word as they poured the wine amongst themselves. Busybodies. I sent the thought down the bond, and Rhys's dark laughter echoed in return. "He gets all the credit for clothes," Mor said, examining the fabric of Nesta's skirt while my sister monitored like a hawk, "and he never tells me where he finds them. He still won't tell me where he found Feyre's dress for Starfall." She threw a glare over her shoulder. "Bastard." Rhys chuckled. Cassian, however, didn't smile, every pore of him seemingly fixed on Nesta and Mor. On what my sister would do. Mor only examined the silver combs in Nesta's hair. "It's a good thing we're not the same size--or else I might be tempted to steal that dress." "Likely right off her," Cassian muttered. Mor's answering smirk wasn't reassuring. But Nesta's face remained blank. Cold. She looked Mor up and down--noting the dress that exposed much of her midriff, back, and chest, then the flowing skirts with sheer panels that revealed glimpses of her legs. Scandalous, by human fashions. "Fortunately for you," Nesta said flatly, "I don't return the sentiment." Azriel coughed into his wine. But Nesta only walked to the table and claimed a seat. Mor blinked, but confided to me with a wince, "I think we're going to need a lot more wine." Nesta's spine stiffened. But she said nothing. "I'll raid the collection," Cassian offered, disappearing through the inner hall doors too quickly to be casual. Nesta stiffened a bit more. Teasing my sister, poking fun at her ... I snatched a seat at Nesta's side and murmured, "They mean well." Nesta just ran a finger over her ivory-and-obsidian place setting, examining the silverware with vines of night-blooming jasmine engraved around the hilts. "I don't care." Amren slid into the seat across from me, right as Cassian returned, a bottle in each hand, and cringed. Amren said to my sister, "You're a real piece of work." Nesta's eyes flicked up. Amren idly swirled a goblet of blood, watching her like a cat with a new, interesting toy. Nesta only said, "Why do your eyes glow?" Little curiosity--ust a blunt need for explanation. And no fear. None. Amren angled her head. "You know, none of these busybodies have ever asked me that." Those busybodies were trying not to look too concerned. As was I. Nesta only waited. Amren sighed, her dark bob swaying. "They glow because it was the one part of me the containment spell could not quite get right. The one glimpse into what lurks beneath." "And what is beneath?" None of the others spoke. Or even moved. Lucien, still by the window, had turned the color of fresh paper. Amren traced a finger along the rim of her goblet, her red- tinted nail gleaming as bright as the blood inside. "They never dared ask me that, either." "Why." "Because it is not polite to ask--and they are afraid." Amren held Nesta's stare, and my sister did not balk. Did not flinch. "We are the same, you and I," Amren said. I wasn't sure I was breathing. Through the bond, I wasn't sure Rhys was, either. "Not in flesh, not in the thing that prowls beneath our skin and bones ..." Amren's remarkable eyes narrowed. "But ... I see the kernel, girl." Amren nodded, more to herself than anyone. "You did not fit--the mold that they shoved you into. The path you were born upon and forced to walk. You tried, and yet you did not, could not, fit. And then the path changed." A little nod. "I know--what it is to be that way. I remember it, long ago as it was." Nesta had mastered the Fae's preternatural stillness far more quickly than I had. And she sat there for a few heartbeats, simply staring at the strange, delicate female across from her, weighing the words, the power that radiated from Amren ... And then Nesta merely said, "I don't know what you're talking about." Amren's red lips parted in a wide, serpentine smile. "When you erupt, girl, make sure it is felt across worlds." A shiver slithered down my skin. But Rhys drawled, "Amren, it seems, has been taking drama lessons at the theater down the street from her house." She shot him a glare. "I mean it, Rhysand--" "I'm sure you do," he said, claiming the seat to my right. "But I'd prefer to eat something before you make us lose our appetites." His broad hand warmed my knee as he clasped it beneath the table, giving me a reassuring squeeze. Cassian took the seat on Amren's left, Azriel beside him, Mor grabbing the seat opposite him, leaving Lucien ... Lucien frowned at the remaining place setting at the head of the table, then at the blank, barren spot across from Nesta. "I --shouldn't you sit at the head?" Rhys raised an eyebrow. "I don't care where you sit. I only care about eating something right'--he snapped his fingers --"now." The food, prepared by cooks I made a point to go meet in the belly of the House, appeared across the table in platters and spreads and bowls. Roast meats, various sauces and gravies, rice and bread, steamed vegetables fresh from the surrounding farms ... I nearly sighed at the smells curling around me. Lucien slid into his seat, looking for all the world like he was perching atop a pincushion. I leaned past Nesta to explain to Lucien, "You get used to it --the informality." "You say that, Feyre darling, like it's a bad thing," Rhys said, helping himself to a platter of pan-fried trout before passing it to me. I rolled my eyes, sliding a few crispy pieces onto my plate. "It took me by surprise that first dinner we all had, just so you know." "Oh, I know." Rhys grinned. Cassian sniggered. "Honestly," I said to Lucien, who wordlessly stacked a pile of buttery green beans onto his plate but didn't touch it, perhaps marveling at the simple fare, so at odds with the overwrought dishes of Spring, "Azriel is the only polite one." A few cries of outrage from Mor and Cassian, but a ghost of a smile danced on the shadowsinger's mouth as he dipped his head and hauled a platter of roast beets sprinkled with goat cheese toward himself. "Don't even try to pretend that it's not true." "Of course it's true," Mor said with a loud sigh, "but you needn't make us sound like heathens." "I would have thought you'd find that term to be a compliment, Mor," Rhys said mildly. Nesta was watching the volley of words as if it were a sporting match, eyes darting between us. She didn't reach for any food, so I took the liberty of dumping spoonfuls of various things onto her plate. She watched that, too. And when I paused, moving on to further fill my own plate, Nesta said, "I understand--what you meant about the food." It took me a moment to recall--to remember that particular conversation back at our father's estate, when she and I had been at each other's throats over the differences between human and Fae food. It was the same in terms of what was served, but it just ... tasted better above the wall. "Is that a compliment?" Nesta didn't return my smile as she speared some asparagus with her fork and dug in. And I figured it was as good a time as any as I said to Cassian, "What time are we back in the training ring tomorrow?" To his credit, Cassian didn't so much as glance at Nesta as he replied with a lazy smile, "I'd say dawn, but since I'm feeling rather grateful that you're back in one piece, I'll let you sleep in. Let's meet at seven." "I'd hardly call that sleeping in," I said. "For an Illyrian, it is," Mor muttered. Cassian's wings rustled. "Daylight is a precious resource." "We live in the Night Court," Mor countered. Cassian only grimaced at Rhys and Azriel. "I told you that the moment we started letting females into our group, they'd be nothing but trouble." "As far as I can recall, Cassian," Rhys countered drily, "you actually said you needed a reprieve from staring at our ugly faces, and that some ladies would add some much-needed prettiness for you to look at all day." "Pig," Amren said. Cassian gave her a vulgar gesture that made Lucien choke on his green beans. "I was a young Illyrian and didn't know better," he said, then pointed his fork at Azriel. "Don't try to blend into the shadows. You said the same thing." "He did not," Mor said, and the shadows that Azriel had indeed been subtly weaving around himself vanished. "Azriel has never once said anything that awful. Only you, Cassian. Only you." The general of the High Lord's armies stuck out his tongue. Mor returned the gesture. Amren scowled at Rhys. "You'd be wise to leave both of them at home for the meeting with the others, Rhysand. They'll cause nothing but trouble." I dared a peek at Lucien--just to gauge his reaction. His face was indeed controlled, but--a hint of surprise twinkled there. Wariness, too, but ... surprise. I risked another glance at Nesta, but she was watching her plate, dutifully ignoring the others. Rhys said, "It remains to be seen if they'll be joining us." Lucien looked at him then, the curiosity in that one eye unmistakable. Rhys noted it and shrugged. "You'll find out soon enough, I suppose. Invitations are going out tomorrow, calling all the High Lords to gather to discuss this war." Lucien's hand tightened on his fork. "All?" I wasn't sure if he meant Tamlin or his father, but Rhys nodded nonetheless. Lucien considered. "Can I offer my unsolicited advice?" Rhys smirked. "I think that's the first time anyone at this table has ever asked such a thing." Mor and Cassian now stuck out their tongues at him. But Rhys waved a lazy hand at Lucien. "By all means, advise away." Lucien studied my mate, then me. "I assume Feyre is going." "Tam." Amren sipped from her glass of blood--the only sound in the room as Lucien considered again. "Are you planning to hide her powers?" Silence. Rhys at last said, "That was something I'd planned to discuss with my mate. Are you leaning one way or another, Lucien?" There was still something sharp in his tone, something just a little vicious. Lucien studied me again, and it was an effort not to squirm. "My father would likely join with Hybern if he thought he stood a chance of getting his power back that way--by killing you. A snarl from Rhys. "Your brothers saw me, though," I said, setting down my fork. "Perhaps they could mistake the flame as yours, but the Ice... Lucien jerked his chin to Azriel. "That's the information you need to gather. What my father knows--if my brothers realized what she was doing. You need to start from there, and build your plan for this meeting accordingly." Mor said, "Eris might keep that information to himself and convince the others to as well, if he thinks it'll be more useful that way." I wondered if Mor looked at that red hair, the golden-brown skin that was a few shades darker than his brothers', and still saw Eris. Lucien said evenly, "Perhaps. But we need to find that out. If Beron or Eris has that information, they'll use it to their advantage in that meeting--to control it. Or control you. Or they might not show up at all, and instead go right to Hybern." Cassian swore softly, and I was inclined to echo the sentiment. Rhys swirled his wine once, set it down, and said to Lucien, "You and Azriel should talk. Tomorrow." Lucien glanced toward the shadowsinger--who only nodded at him. "I'm at your disposal." None of us were dumb enough to ask if he'd be willing to reveal details on the Spring Court. If he thought that Tamlin would arrive. That was perhaps a conversation best left for another time. With just him and me. Rhys leaned back in his seat. Contemplating--something. His jaw tightened, then he let out a near-silent huff of air. Steeling himself. For whatever he was about to reveal, whatever plans he had decided not to reveal until now. And even as my stomach tightened, some sort of thrill went through me at it--at that clever mind at work. Until Rhys said, "There is another meeting that needs to be had--and soon." <|title|>Chapter 18 <|startofchapter|>"Please don't say we need to go to the Court of Nightmares," Cassian grumbled around a mouthful of food. Rhys lifted a brow. "Not in the mood to terrorize our friends there?" Mor's golden face paled. "You mean to ask my father to fight in this war," she said to Rhys. I reined in my sharp intake of breath. "What is the Court of Nightmares?" Nesta demanded. Lucien answered for us. "The place where the rest of the world believes the majority of the Night Court to be." He jerked his chin at Rhys. "The seat of his power. Or it was." "Oh, it still is," Rhys said. "To everyone outside Velaris." He leveled a steady look at Mor. "And yes. Keir's Darkbringer legion is considerable enough that a meeting is warranted." The last meeting had resulted in Keir's arm being shattered in so many places it had gone saggy. I doubted the male would be inclined to help us anytime soon--perhaps why Rhys wanted this meeting. Nesta's brows narrowed. "Why not just order them? Don't they answer to you?" Cassian set down his fork, food forgotten. "Unfortunately, there are protocols in place between our two subcourts regarding this sort of thing. They mostly govern themselves-- with Mor's father their steward." Mor's throat bobbed. Azriel watched her carefully, his mouth a tight line. "The steward of the Hewn City is legally entitled to refuse to aid my armies," Rhys explained to Nesta, to me. "It was part of the agreement my ancestor made with the Court of Nightmares all those thousands of years ago. They would remain within that mountain, would not challenge or disturb us beyond its borders ... and would retain the right to decide not to assist in war." "And have they--refused?" I asked. Mor nodded gravely. "Twice. Not my father." She nearly choked on the word. "But ... there were two wars. Long, long ago. They chose not to fight. We won, but ... barely. At great cost." And with this war upon us ... we would need every ally we could muster. Every army. "We leave in two days," Rhys said. "He'll say no," Mor countered. "Don't waste your time." "Then I shall have to find a way to convince him otherwise." Mor's eyes flashed. "What?" Azriel and Cassian shifted in their seats, and Amren clicked her tongue at Rhys. Disapproval. "He fought in the War," Rhys said calmly. "Perhaps we'll be lucky this time, too." "I'll remind you that the Darkbringer legion was nearly as bad as the enemy when it came to their behavior," Mor said, pushing her plate away. "There will be new rules." "You will not be in a position to make rules, and you know it," Mor snapped. Rhys only swirled his wine again. "We'll see." I glanced to Cassian. The general shook his head subtly. Stay out of this one. For now. I swallowed, nodding back with equal faintness. Mor whipped her head toward Azriel. "What do you think?" The shadowsinger held her stare, his face unreadable. Considering. I tried not to hold my breath. Defending the female he loved or siding with his High Lord ... "It's not my call to make." "That's a bullshit answer," Mor challenged. I could have sworn hurt flickered in Azriel's eyes, but he only shrugged, his face again a mask of cold indifference. Mor's lips pursed. "You don't need to come, Mor," Rhys said with that calm, even voice. "Of course I'm coming. It'll make it worse if I'm not there." She drained her wine in one swift tilt of her head. "I suppose I have two days now to find a dress suitable to horrify my father." Amren, at least, chuckled at that, Cassian rumbling a laugh as well. But Rhys watched Mor for a long minute, some of the stars in his eyes winking out. I debated asking if there was some other way, some path to avoid this awfulness between us, but ... Earlier, I had snapped at him. And with Lucien and my sister here ... I kept my mouth shut. Well, about that matter. In the silence that fell, I scrambled for any scrap of normalcy and turned again to Cassian. "Let's train at eight tomorrow. I'll meet you in the ring." "Seven thirty," he said with a disarming grin--one that most of his enemies would likely run from. Lucien went back to picking at his food. Mor refilled her wineglass, Azriel monitoring every move she made, his fork clenched in his scarred hand. "Fight," I countered with a flat look. I turned to Nesta, silent and watchful through all of this. "Care to join?" "No." The beat of silence was too pointed to be dismissed. But I gave my sister a casual shrug, reaching for the wine jug. Then I said to none of them in particular, "I want to learn how to fly." Mor spewed her wine across the table, splattering it right across Azriel's chest and neck. The shadowsinger was too busy gawking at me to even notice. Cassian looked torn between howling at Azriel and gaping. My magic was still too weak to grow those Illyrian wings, but I gestured to the Illyrians and said, "I want you to teach me. Mor blurted, "Really?" while Lucien--Lucien--said, "Well, that explains the wings." Nesta leaned forward to appraise me. "What wings?" "I can--shape-shift," I admitted. "And with the oncoming conflict," I declared to all of them, "knowing how to fly might be ... useful." I jerked my chin toward Cassian, who now studied me with unnerving intensity--sizing me up. "I assume the battles against Hybern will include Illyrians." A shallow nod from the general. "Then I plan to fight with you. In the skies." I waited for the objections, for Rhys to shut it down. There was only the howling wind outside the dining room windows. Cassian whooshed out a breath. "I don't know if it's technically even possible--time-wise. You'd have to learn not only how to fly, but how to bear the weight of your shield and weapons--and how to work within an Illyrian unit. It takes us decades to master that last part alone. We have months at best --weeks at worst." My chest sank a bit. "Then we'll teach her what we know until then," Rhys said. But the stars in his eyes turned stone-cold as he added, "I'll give her any shot at an advantage--at getting away if things go to shit. Even a day of training might make a difference." Azriel tucked in his wings, his beautiful features uncharacteristically soft. Contemplative. "Dll teach you." "Are you ... certain?" I asked. The unreadable mask slipped back over Azriel's face. "Rhys and Cass were taught how to fly so young that they barely remember it." But Azriel, locked in his hateful father's dungeons like some criminal until he was eleven, denied the ability to fly, to fight, to do anything his Illyrian instincts screamed at him to do... Darkness rumbled down the bond. Not anger at me, but ... as Rhys, too, remembered what had been done to his friend. He'd never forgotten. None of them had. It was an effort not to look at the brutal scars coating Azriel's hands. I prayed Nesta wouldn't inquire about it. "We've taught plenty of younglings the basics," Cassian countered. Azriel shook his head, shadows twining around his wrists. "It's not the same. When you're older, the fears, the mental blocks ... it's different." None of them, not even Amren, said anything. Azriel only said to me, "I'll teach you. Train with Cass for a few hours, and I'll meet you when you're through." He added to Lucien, who did not balk from those writhing shadows, "After lunch, we'll meet." I swallowed, but nodded. "Thank you." And perhaps Azriel's kindness snapped some sort of tether in me, but I turned to Nesta. "The King of Hybern is trying to bring down the wall by using the Cauldron to expand the holes already in it." Her blue-gray eyes revealed nothing--only simmering rage at the king's name. "I might be able to patch up those holes, but you ... being made of the Cauldron itself ... if the Cauldron can widen those holes, perhaps you can close them, too. With training--in whatever time we have." "I can show you," Amren clarified to my sister. "Or, in theory I can. If we start soon--tomorrow morning." She considered, then declared to Rhys, "When you go to the Court of Nightmares, we will go with you." I whipped my head to Amren. "What?" The thought of Nesta in that place-- "The Hewn City is a trove of objects of power," Amren explained. "There may be opportunities to practice. Let the girl get a feel for what something like the wall or the Cauldron might be like." She added when Azriel seem poised to object, "Covertly." Nesta said nothing. I waited for her outright refusal, the cold shutdown of all hope. But Nesta only asked, "Why not just kill the King of Hybern before he can act?" Utter silence. Amren said a bit softly, "If you want his killing blow, girl, it's yours." Nesta's gaze drifted toward the open interior doors of the dining room. As if she could see all the way to Elain. "What happened to the human queens?" I blinked. "What do you mean?" "Were they made immortal?" This question went to Azriel. Azriel's Siphons smoldered. "Reports have been murky and inconsistent. Some say yes, others say no." Nesta examined her wineglass. Cassian braced his forearms on the table. "Why?" Nesta's eyes shot right to his face. She spoke quietly to me, to all of us, even as she held Cassian's gaze as if he were the only one in the room. "By the end of this war, I want them dead. The king, the queens--all of them. Promise me you'll kill them all, and I'll help you patch up the wall. I'll train with her'--a jerk of her chin to Amren--'I'll go to the Hewn City or whatever it is ... I'll do it. But only if you promise me that." "Fine," I said. "And we might need your assistance during the meeting with the High Lords--to provide testimony to other courts and allies of what Hybern is capable of. What was done to you." "No." "You don't mind fixing the wall or going to the Court of Nightmares, but speaking to people is where you draw your line?" Nesta's mouth tightened. "No." High Lady or sister; sister or High Lady ... "People's lives might depend on your account of it. The success of this meeting with the High Lords might depend upon it." She gripped the arms of her chair, as if restraining herself. "Don't talk down to me. My answer is no." I angled my head. "I understand that what happened to you was horrible--" "You have no idea what it was or was not. None. And I am not going to grovel like one of those Children of the Blessed, begging High Fae who would have gladly killed me as a mortal to help us. m not going to tell them that story--my story." "The High Lords might not believe our account, which makes you a valuable witness--" Nesta shoved her chair back, chucking her napkin on her plate, gravy soaking through the fine linen. "Then it is not my problem if you're unreliable. I'll help you with the wall, but I am not going to whore my story around to everyone on your behalf." She shot to her feet, color rising to her ordinarily pale face, and hissed, "And if you even dare suggest to Elain that she do such a thing, I will rip out your throat." Her eyes lifted from mine to sweep over everyone-- extending the threat. None of us spoke as she left the dining room and slammed the door shut behind her. I slumped in my chair, resting my head against the back. Something thumped in front of me. A bottle of wine. "It's fine if you drink directly from it," was all Mor said. "I'd say Nesta rivals Amren for sheer bloodthirstiness," Rhys mused hours later as he and I walked alone through the streets of Velaris. "The only difference is that Amren actually drinks it." I snorted, shaking my head as we turned onto the broad street beside the Sidra and meandered along the star-flecked river. So many scars still marred the lovely buildings of Velaris, streets gouged from fallen debris and claws. Most of it had been repaired, but some storefronts had been left boarded up, some homes along the river no more than mounds of rubble. We'd flown down from the House as soon as we'd finished dinner--well, the wine, I supposed. Mor had taken another bottle with her when she'd disappeared into the House, Azriel frowning after her. Rhys and I hadn't invited anyone else with us. He'd only asked me through the bond, Walk with me? And I'd merely given him a subtle nod. And here we were. We'd walked for over an hour now, mostly quiet, mostly ... thinking. Of the words and information and threats shared today. Neither of us slowed our steps until we reached that little restaurant where we had all dined under the stars one night. Something tight in my chest eased as I beheld the untouched building, the potted citrus plants sighing in the river breeze. And on that breeze ... those delectable, rich spices, garlicky meat, simmering tomatoes ... I leaned my back against the rail along the river walkway, watching the restaurant workers serve the packed tables. "Who knows," I murmured, answering him at last. "Perhaps Nesta will take up the blood-drinking habit, too. I certainly believe her threat to rip out my throat. Maybe she'll enjoy the taste." Rhys chuckled, the sound rumbling into my bones as he took up a spot beside me, his elbows braced on the rail, wings tucked in tight. I breathed in deeply, taking the citrus-and-sea scent of him into my lungs, my blood. His mouth grazed my neck. "Will you hate me if I say that Nesta is ... difficult?" I laughed softly. "I'd say this went fairly well, all things considered. She agreed to one thing, at least." I chewed on my lower lip. "I shouldn't have asked her in public. I made a mistake." He remained silent, listening. "With the others," I asked, "how do you find that balance-- between High Lord and family?" Rhys considered. "It isn't easy. I've made plenty of bad calls over the centuries. So I hate to tell you that tonight might only be the start of it." I loosed a long sigh. "I should have considered that telling strangers what happened to her in Hybern might ... might not be something she was comfortable with. My sister has been a private person her entire life, even amongst us." Rhys leaned in to kiss my neck again. "Earlier today--at the loft," he said, pulling back to meet my eyes. Unflinching. Open. "I didn't mean to insult her." "I'm sorry I snapped at you." He lifted a dark brow. "Why in hell would you be? I insulted your sister; you defended her. You had every right to kick my ass for it." "I didn't mean to ... undermine you." Shadows flickered in his eyes. "Ah." He twisted toward the Sidra, and I followed suit. The water meandered past, its dark surface rippling with golden faelights from the streetlamps and the bright jewels of the Rainbow. "That was why it was ... strange between us this afternoon." He cringed and faced me fully. "Mother above, Feyre." My cheeks heated and I interrupted before he could continue. "I get why, though. A solid, unified front is important." I scratched at the smooth wood of the rail with a finger. "Especially for us." "Not amongst our family." Warmth spread through me at the words--our family. He took my hand, interlacing our fingers. "We can make whatever rules we want. You have every right to question me, push me--both in private and in public." A snort. "Of course, if you decide to truly kick my ass, I might request that it's done behind closed doors so I don't have to suffer centuries of teasing, but--" "I won't undermine you in public. And you won't undermine me." He remained quiet, letting me think, speak. "We can question each other through the bond if we're around people other than our friends," I said. "But for now, for these initial years, I'd like to show the world a unified front ... That is, if we survive." "We'll survive." Uncompromising will in those words, that face. "But I want you to feel comfortable pushing me, calling me out--" "When have I ever not done that?" He smiled. But I added, "I want you to do the same--for me." "Deal. But amongst our family ... call me on my bullshit all you want. I insist, actually." "Because it's fun." I nudged him with an elbow. "Because you're my equal," he said. "And as much as that means having each other's backs in public, it also means that we grant each other the gift of honesty. Of truth." I surveyed the bustling city around us. "Can I give you a bit of truth, then?" He stilled, but said, "Always." I blew out a breath. "I think you should be careful-- working with Keir. Not for how despicable he is, but because ... I think you could truly wound Mor if you don't play it right." Rhys dragged a hand through his hair. "I know. I know." "Is it worth it--whatever troops he can offer? If it means hurting her?" "We've been working with Keir for centuries. She should be used to it by now. And yes--his troops are worth it. The Darkbringers are well trained, powerful, and have been idle too long." I considered. "The last time we went to the Court of Nightmares, I played your whore." He winced at the word. "But I am now your High Lady," I went on, stroking a finger over the back of his hand. He tracked the movement. My voice dropped lower. "To get Keir to agree to aid us ... Any tips on what mask I should wear to the Hewn City?" "It's for you to decide," he said, still watching my finger trace idle circles on his skin. "You've seen how I am there-- how we are. It is for you to decide how to play into that." "I suppose I'd better decide soon--not just for this, but the meeting with the other High Lords in two weeks." Rhys slid a sidelong glance to me. "Every court is invited." "I doubt he'll come, given that he is Hybern's ally and knows we'd kill him." The river breeze stirred his blue-black hair. "The meeting will occur with a binding spell that forces us all into cease-fire. If someone breaks it while the meeting occurs, the magic will demand a steep cost. Probably their life. Tamlin wouldn't be stupid enough to attack--nor us him." "Why invite him at all?" "Excluding him will only give him more ammunition against us. Believe me, I have little desire to see him. Or Beron. Who perhaps is higher on my kill list than Tamlin right now. "Tarquin will be there. And we are pretty high on his kill list." "Even with the blood rubies, he wouldn't be stupid enough to attack during the meeting." Rhys sighed through his nose. "How many allies can we count on? Beyond Keir and the Hewn City, I mean." I glanced down the river walkway. The diners and revelers were too busy enjoying themselves to even note our presence, even with Rhys's recognizable wings. Still --perhaps not the best place for this conversation. "I'm not sure," Rhys admitted. "Helion and his Day Court, probably. Kallias ... maybe. Things have been strained with the Winter Court since Under the Mountain." "I assume Azriel is going to be finding out more." "He's already on the hunt." I nodded. "Amren claimed she and Nesta needed help researching ways to repair the wall." I gestured to the city. "Point me toward the best library to find that sort of thing." Rhys's brows lifted. "Right now? Your work ethic puts mine to shame." I hissed, "Tomorrow, smartass." He chuckled, wings flaring and tucking in tight. Wings ... wings he'd allowed Lucien to see. "You trust Lucien." Rhys angled his head at the not-quite question. "I trust in the fact that we currently have possession of the one thing he wants above all else. And as long as that remains, he'll try to stay on our good side. But if that changes ... His talent was wasted in the Spring Court. There was a reason he had that fox mask, you know." His mouth tugged to the side. "If he got Elain away, back to Spring or wherever ... do you believe, deep down, that he wouldn't sell what he knows? Either for gain, or to ensure she stays safe?" "You let him hear everything tonight, though." "None of it is information that would let Hybern wreck us. The king likely already knows that we'll go for Keir's alliance --that we'll try to find a way to stop him from bringing down the wall. He wasn't subtle with Dagdan and Brannagh's searching. And he'll expect us to try to band the High Lords together. Which is why the meeting location will not be decided until later. Will I tell Lucien then? Bring him along?" I considered his question: Did I trust Lucien? "I don't know, either," I admitted, and sighed. "I don't like that Elain is a pawn in this." "I know. It's never easy." He'd dealt with such things for centuries. "I want to wait-- see what Lucien does over the next two weeks. How he acts, with us and Elain. What Azriel thinks of him." I frowned. "He's not a bad person--he's not evil." "He certainly isn't." "I just ..." I met his calm, steady stare. "There is risk in trusting him without question." "Did he discuss what he feels regarding Tamlin?" "No. I didn't want to push on that. He was ... remorseful about what happened with me, and Hybern, and Elain. Would he have felt that way without Elain in the mix? I don't know-- maybe. I don't think he would have left, though." Rhys brushed the hair from my face. "It's all part of the game, Feyre darling. Who to trust, when to trust them--what information to barter." "Do you enjoy it?" "Sometimes. Right now, I don't. Not when the risks are this high." His fingers grazed my brow. "When I have so much to lose." I laid my palm on his chest, right over those Illyrian tattoos beneath his clothes, right over his heart. Felt the sturdy beat echoing into my skin and bones. I forgot the city around us as he met my eyes, lips hovering over my skin, and murmured, "We will keep planning for the future, war or no war. I will keep planning for our future." My throat burned, and I nodded. "We deserve to be happy," he said, his eyes sparkling enough to tell me that he recalled the words I'd given him on the town house roof after the attack. "And I will fight with everything I have to ensure it." "We will fight," I said hoarsely. "Not just you--not anymore." Too much. He had given too much already, and still seemed to think it was not enough. But Rhys only peered over his broad shoulder, to the cheerful restaurant behind us. "That first night we all came here," he said, and I followed his gaze, watching the workers set the tables with loving precision. "When you told Sevenda that you felt awake while eating her food ..." He shook his head. "It was the first time you had looked ... peaceful. Like you were indeed awake, alive again. I was so relieved I thought I'd puke right onto the table." I recalled the long, strange look he'd given me when I'd finally spoken. Then the long walk we'd taken home, when we'd heard that music he'd sent to my cell Under the Mountain. I pushed off the rail and tugged him toward the bridge that spanned the Sidra--the bridge to take us home. Let the debate over who'd give the most in this war rest for now. "Walk with me--through the Rainbow." The glittering, colorful jewel of the city, the beating heart that housed the artists' quarter. Vibrant and thrumming at this hour of the night. I linked arms with him before saying, "You and this city helped wake me up--helped bring me back to life." His eyes flickered as I smiled up at him. "I will fight with everything I have, too, Rhys. Everything." He only kissed the top of my head, tugging me closer as we crossed the Sidra under the starry sky. <|title|>Chapter 19 <|startofchapter|>It was a good thing I'd insisted on meeting Cassian at eight, because even though I awoke at dawn, one look at Rhysand's sleeping face had me deciding to spend the morning slowly, sweetly waking him up. I was still flushed by the time Rhys dropped me at the sparring ring atop the House of Wind, the space surrounded by a wall of red rock, the top open to the elements. He promised to meet me after lunch to show me the library for my researching, then gave me a roguish wink and kiss on the cheek before he shot back into the sky with a powerful flap of his wings. Leaning against the wall beside the weapons rack, Cassian only said, "I hope you didn't exert yourself too much already, because this is really going to hurt." I rolled my eyes, even as I tried to shut out the image of Rhysand laying me on my stomach, then kissing his way down my spine. Lower. Tried to shut out the feeling of his strong hands gripping my hips and lifting them up, up, until he lay beneath them and feasted on me, until I was quietly begging him and he rose behind me and I had to bite my pillow to keep from waking the whole house with my moaning. Rhysand in the morning was ... I didn't have words for what it was when he was unhurried and lazy and wicked, when his hair was still mussed with sleep and his eyes got that glazed, purely male gleam in them. They'd still had that lazy, satisfied glint a moment ago, and his mockingly chaste kiss on my cheek had sent a red-hot line through me. Later. I'd torture him later. For now ... I strode to where Cassian stood, rotating my shoulders. "Two Illyrian males making me sweat in one morning. What's a female to do?" Cassian barked a laugh. "At least you showed up with some spirit." I grinned, bracing my hands on my hips as I surveyed the weapons rack. "Which one?" "None." He jerked his chin toward the ring etched in white chalk behind us. "It's been a while since we trained. We're spending today going over the basics." The words were laced with enough tightness that I said, "It hasn't been that long." "It's been a month and a half." I studied him, the wings tucked in tight, the shoulder-length dark hair. "What's wrong?" "Nothing." He stalked past me to the ring. "Ts it Nesta?" "Not everything in my life is about your sister, you know." I kept my mouth shut on that front. "Is it something with the Court of Nightmares visit tomorrow?" Cassian shucked off his shirt, revealing rippling muscles covered in beautiful, intricate tattoos. Illyrian markings for luck and glory. "It's nothing. Get into position." I obeyed, even as I eyed him carefully. "You're ... angry." He refused to speak until I started my circuit of warm-ups: various lunges, kicks, and stretches designed to loosen my muscles. And only when we'd begun sparring, his hands wrapped against my onslaught of punching, did he say, "You and Rhys hid the truth from us. And we went into Hybern blind about it." "About what?" "That you're High Lady." I jabbed at his raised hands in a one-two combination, breathing hard. "What difference would it have made?" "It would have changed everything. None of it would have gone down like that." "Perhaps that's why Rhys decided to keep it a secret." "Hybern was a disaster." I halted my punching. "You knew I was his mate when we went. I don't see how being High Lady alters anything." "It does." I put my hands on my hips, ignoring his motion to continue. "Why?" Cassian dragged a hand through his hair. "Because ... because as his mate, you were still ... his to protect. Oh, don't get that look. He's yours to protect, too. I would have laid my life down for you as his mate--and as your friend. But you were still ... his." "And as High Lady?" Cassian loosed a rough breath. "As High Lady, you are mine. And Azriel's, and Mor's and Amren's. You belong to all of us, and we belong to you. We would not have ... put you in so much danger." "Maybe that's why Rhys wanted to keep it a secret. It would have changed your focus." "This is between you and me. And trust me, Rhys and I had ... words about this." I lifted a brow. "You're mad at me?" He shook his head, eyes shuttering. "Cassian." He just held up his hands in a silent order to continue. I sighed and began again. It was only after I'd gotten through fifteen repetitions and was panting heavily that Cassian said, "You didn't think you were essential. You saved our asses, yes, but ... you didn't think you were essential here." One-two, one-two, one-two. "I'm not." He opened his mouth, but I charged ahead, speaking around my gasps for breath. "You all have a ... duty--you're all vital. Yes, I have my own abilities, but ... You and Azriel were hurt, my sisters were ... you know what happened to them. I did what I could to get us out. I'd rather it was me than any of you. I couldn't have lived with the alternative." His upraised hands were unfaltering as I pummeled them. "Anything could have happened to you at the Spring Court." I stopped again. "If Rhys isn't grilling me with the overprotective bullshit, then I don't see why you--" "Don't for one moment think that Rhys wasn't beside himself with worry. Oh, he seems collected enough, Feyre, but I know him. And every moment you were gone, he was in a panic. Yes, he knew--we knew--you could handle yourself. But it doesn't stop us from worrying." I shook out my sore hands, then rubbed my already-aching arms. "You were mad at him, too." "If I hadn't been healing, I would have kicked his ass from one end of Velaris to the other." I didn't reply. "We were all terrified for you." "I managed just fine." "Of course you did. We knew you would. But ..." Cassian crossed his arms. "Rhys pulled the same shit fifty years ago. When he went to that damned party Amarantha threw." Oh. Oh. "I'll never forget it, you know," he said, blowing out a breath. "The moment when he spoke to us all, mind to mind. When I realized what was happening, and that ... he'd saved us. Trapped us here and tied our hands, but ..." He scratched at his temple. "It went quiet--in my head. In a way it hadn't been before. Not since ..." Cassian squinted at the cloudless sky. "Even with utter hell unleashing here, across our territory, I just went ... quiet." He tapped the side of his head with a finger, and frowned. "After Hybern, the healer kept me asleep while she worked on my wings. So when I woke up two weeks later ... that's when I heard. And when Mor told me what happened to you ... It went quiet again." I swallowed against the constriction of my throat. "You found me when I needed you most, Cassian." "Pleased to be of service." He gave me a grim smile. "You can rely on us, you know. Both of you. He's inclined to do everything himself--to give everything of himself. He can't stand to let anyone else offer up anything." That smile faded. "Neither can you." "And you can?" "It's not easy, but yes. I'm general of his armies. Part of that includes knowing how to delegate. I've been with Rhys for over five hundred years and he still tries to do everything himself. Still thinks it's not enough." I knew that--too well. And the thought of Rhys, in this war, trying to take on all that faced us ... Nausea churned in my gut. "He gives orders all the time." "Yes. And he's good at knowing what we excel at. But when it comes down to it ..." Cassian adjusted the wrappings on his hands. "If the High Lords and Keir don't step up, he'll still face Hybern. And will take the brunt of it so we don't have to." An unshakable, queasy sort of tightness pushed in on me. Rhys would survive--he wouldn't dare sacrifice everything to make sure we-- Rhys would. He had with Amarantha, and he'd do it again without hesitation. I shut it out. Shoved it down. Focused on my breathing. Something drew Cassian's attention behind me. And even as his body remained casual, a predatory gleam flickered in his eyes. I didn't need to turn to know who was standing there. "Care to join?" Cassian purred. Nesta said, "It doesn't look like you're exercising anything other than your mouths." I looked over my shoulder. My sister was in a dress of pale blue that turned her skin golden, her hair swept up, her back a stiff column. I scrambled to say something, to apologize, but ... not in front of him. She wouldn't want this conversation in front of Cassian. Cassian extended a wrapped hand, his fingers curling in a come-hither motion. "Scared?" I wisely kept my mouth shut as Nesta stepped from the open doorway into the blinding light of the courtyard. "Why should I be scared of an oversized bat who likes to throw temper tantrums?" I choked, and Cassian shot me a warning glare, daring me to laugh. But I felt for that bond in my mind, lowering my mental shields enough to say to Rhysand, wherever he was in the city, Please come spare me from Cassian and Nesta' bickering. A heartbeat later, Rhys crooned, Regretting becoming High Lady? I savored that voice--that humor. But I shoved that simmering panic down again as I countered, Zs this part of my duties? A sensual, dark laugh. Why do you think I was so desperate for a partner? I've had almost five centuries to deal with this alone. It's only fair you have to endure it now. Cassian was saying to Nesta, "Seems like you're a little on edge, Nesta. And you left so abruptly last night ... Any way I can help ease that tension?" Please, I begged Rhys. What will you give me? I wasn't sure if I could hiss down the bond between us, but from the chuckle that echoed into my mind a heartbeat later, I knew the feeling had been conveyed. I'm in a meeting with the governors of the Palaces. They might be a little pissy if I vanish. I tried not to sigh. Nesta picked at her nails. "Amren is coming to instruct me in a few--" Shadow rippled across the courtyard, cutting her off. And it wasn't Rhysand who landed between us, but-- I sent another pretty face for you to admire, Rhys said. Not as beautiful as mine, of course, but a close second. As the shadows wreathing him cleared, Azriel sized up Nesta and Cassian, then threw a vaguely sympathetic look in my direction. "I need to start our lesson early." A piss-poor lie, but I said, "Right. No problem at all." Cassian glowered at me, then Azriel. We both ignored him as I strode to the shadowsinger, unwrapping my hands as I went. Thank you, I said down the bond. You can make it up to me tonight. I tried not to blush at the image Rhys sent into my head detailing precisely how I'd repay him, and slammed down my mental shields. On the other side of them, I could have sworn talon-tipped fingers trailed down the black adamant in a sensual, silent promise. I swallowed hard. Azriel's wings spread, dark reds and golds shining through in the bright sun, and he opened his arms to me. "The pine forest will be good--the one by the lake." "Why?" "Because water is better to fall into than hard rock," Cassian replied, crossing his arms. My stomach clenched. But I let Azriel scoop me up, his scent of night-chilled mist and cedar wrapping around me as he flapped his wings once, stirring the dirt of the courtyard. I caught Cassian's narrowed gaze and grinned widely. "Good luck," I said, and Azriel, Cauldron bless him, shot into the cloudless sky. Neither of us missed Cassian's barked, filthy curse, though we didn't deign to comment. Cassian was a general--the general of the Night Court. Surely Nesta wasn't anything he couldn't handle. "I dropped Amren off at the House on my way in," Azriel told me as we landed at the shore of a turquoise mountain lake flanked by pines and granite. "I told her to get to the training ring immediately." A half smile. "After a few minutes, that is." I snorted and stretched my arms. "Poor Cassian." Azriel gave a huff of amusement. "Indeed." I shifted on my feet, small gray rocks along the shore skittering beneath my boots. "So ..." Azriel's black hair seemed to gobble up the blinding sunlight. "In order to fly," he said drily, "you'll need wings." Right. My face heated. I rolled and cracked my wrists. "It's been a while since I summoned them." His piercing stare didn't stray from my face, my posture. As immovable and steady as the granite this lake had been carved into. I might as well have been a flitting butterfly by comparison. "Do you need me to turn around?" He lifted a dark brow in emphasis. I cringed. "No. But ... it might take me a few tries." "We started our lesson early--we've got plenty of time." "I appreciate you making the effort to pretend that it wasn't because I was desperate to avoid Cassian and Nesta's early- morning bickering." "I'd never let my High Lady suffer through that." He said it completely stone-faced. I chuckled, rubbing at a sore spot on my shoulder. "Are you .. ready to meet with Lucien this afternoon?" Azriel angled his head. "Should I be preparing for it?" "No. I just ..." I shrugged. "When do you leave to gather information on the High Lords?" "After I talk to him." His eyes were shining--lit with amusement. As if he knew I was buying time. I blew out a breath. "Right. Here we go." Touching that part of me, the part Tamlin had given me ... Some vital piece of my heart recoiled. Even as something sharp and vicious in my gut preened at what I'd taken. All that I'd taken. I shoved out the thoughts, focusing on those Illyrian wings. I'd summoned them that day in the Steppes from pure memory and fear. Creating them now ... I let my mind slip into my recollections of Rhys's wings, how they felt and moved and weighed ... "The frame needs to be a bit thicker," Azriel offered as a weight began to drag at my back. "Strengthen the muscles leading to it." I obeyed, my magic listening in turn. He provided more feedback, where to add and where to ease up, where to smooth and where to toughen. I was rasping for breath, sweat sliding down my spine, by the time he said, "Good." He cleared his throat. "I know you're not Illyrian, but ... amongst their kind, it is considered inappropriate to touch someone's wings without permission. Especially females." Their kind. Not his. It took me a moment to realize what he was asking. "Oh-- oh. Go ahead." "I need to ascertain if they feel right." "Right." I put my back to him, my muscles groaning as they worked to spread the wings. Everything--from my neck to my shoulders to my ribs to my spine to my ass--seemed to now control them, and was barking in protest at the weight and movement. I'd only had them for a few seconds with Lucien in the Steppes--I hadn't realized how heavy they were, how complex the muscles. Azriel's hands, for all their scarring, were featherlight as he grasped and touched certain areas, patting and tapping others. I gritted my teeth, the sensation like ... like having the arch of my foot tickled and poked. But he made quick work of it, and I rolled my shoulders again as he stepped around me to murmur, "It's--amazing. They're the same as mine." "I think the magic did most of the work." A shake of the head. "You're an artist--it was your attention to detail." I blushed a bit at the compliment, and braced my hands on my hips. "Well? Do we jump into the skies?" "First lesson: don't let them drag on the ground." I blinked. My wings were indeed resting on the rocks. "Why?" "Illyrians think it's lazy--a sign of weakness. And from a practical standpoint, the ground is full of things that could hurt your wings. Splinters, shards of rock ... They can not only get stuck and lead to infection, but also impact the way the wing catches the wind. So keep them off the ground." Knife-sharp pain rippled down my back as I tried to lift them. I managed getting the left upright. The right just drooped like a loose sail. "You need to strengthen your back muscles--and your thighs. And your arms. And core." "So everything, then." Again, that dry, quiet smile. "Why do you think Illyrians are so fit?" "Why did no one warn me about this cocky side of yours?" Azriel's mouth twitched upward. "Both wings up." A quiet but unyielding demand. I winced, contorting my body this way and that as I fought to get the right one to rise. No luck. "Try spreading them, then tucking in, if you can't lift it up like that." I obeyed, and hissed at the sharp pain along every muscle in my back as I flared the wings. Even the slightest breeze off the lake tickled and tugged, and I braced my feet apart on the rocky shore, seeking some semblance of balance-- "Now fold inward." I did, snapping them shut--the movement so fast that I toppled forward. Azriel caught me before I could eat stone, gripping me tightly under the shoulder and hauling me up. "Building your core muscles will also help with the balance." "So, back to Cassian, then." A nod. "Tomorrow. Today, focus on lifting and folding, spreading and lifting." Azriel's wings gleamed with red and gold as the sun gilded them. "Like this." He demonstrated, flaring his wings wide, tucking them in, flaring, angling, tucking them in. Over and over. Sighing, I followed his movements, my back throbbing and aching. Perhaps flying lessons were a waste of time. <|title|>Chapter 20 <|startofchapter|>"I've never been to a library before," I admitted to Rhys after lunch, as we strode down level after level beneath the House of Wind, my words echoing off the carved red stone. I winced with every step, rubbing at my back. Azriel had given me a tonic that would help with the soreness, but I knew that by tonight, I'd be whimpering. If hours of researching any way to patch up those holes in the wall didn't make me start first. "I mean," I clarified, "not counting the private libraries here and at the Spring Court, and my family had one as well, but not ... Not areal one." Rhys glanced sidelong at me. "I've heard that the humans have free libraries on the continent--open to anyone." I wasn't sure if it was a question or not, but I nodded. "In one of the territories, they allow anyone in, regardless of their station or bloodline." I considered his words. "Did ... were there libraries before the War?" Of course there had been, but what I meant-- "Yes. Great libraries, full of cranky scholars who could find you tomes dating back thousands of years. But humans were not allowed inside--unless you were someone's slave on an errand, and even then you were closely watched." "Because the books were full of magic, and things they wanted to keep humans from knowing." Rhys slid his hands into his pockets, leading me down a corridor lit only by bowls of faelight upraised in the hands of beautiful female statues, their forms High Fae and faerie alike. "The scholars and librarians refused to keep slaves of their own--some for personal reasons, but mainly because they didn't want them accessing the books and archives." Rhys gestured down another curving stairwell. We must have been far beneath the mountain, the air dry and cool--and heavy. As if it had been trapped inside for ages. "What happened to the libraries once the wall was built?" Rhys tucked in his wings as the stairs became tighter, the ceiling dropping. "Most scholars had enough time to evacuate --and were able to winnow the books out. But if they didn't have the time or the brute power ..." A muscle ticked in his jaw. "They burned the libraries. Rather than let the humans access their precious information." A chill snaked down my spine. "They'd rather have lost that information forever?" He nodded, the dim light gilding his blue-black hair. "Prejudices aside, the fear was that the humans would find dangerous spells--and use them on us." "But we--I mean, they don't have magic. Humans don't have magic." "Some do. Usually the ones who can claim distant Fae ancestry. But some of those spells don't require magic from the wielder--only the right words, or use of ingredients." His words snagged on something in my mind. "Could--I mean, obviously they did, but ... Humans and Fae once interbred. What happened to the offspring? If you were half Fae, half human, where did you go once the wall went up?" Rhys stepped into a hall at the foot of the stairs, revealing a wide passageway of carved red stone and a sealed set of obsidian doors, veins of silver running throughout. Beautiful-- terrifying. Like some great beast was kept behind them. "It did not go well for the half-breeds," he said after a moment. "Many were offspring of unwanted unions. Most usually chose to stay with their human mothers--their human families. But once the wall went up, amongst humans, they were a ... reminder of what had been done, of the enemies lurking above the wall. At best, they were outcasts and pariahs, their children--if they bore the physical traits--as well. At worst ... Humans were angry in those initial years, and that first generation afterward. They wanted someone to pay for the slavery, for the crimes against them. Even if the half-breed had done nothing wrong ... It did not end well." He approached the doors, which opened on a phantom wind, as if the mountain itself lived to serve him. "And the ones above the wall?" "They were deemed even lower than lesser faeries. Either they were unwanted everywhere they went, or ... many found work on the streets. Selling themselves." "Here in Velaris?" My words were a bare brush of air. "My father was still High Lord then," Rhys said, his back stiffening. "We had not allowed any humans, slave or free, into our territory in centuries. He did not allow them in-- either to whore or to find sanctuary." "And once you were High Lord?" Rhys halted before the gloom that spread beyond us. "By then, it was too late for most of them. It is hard to ... offer refuge to someone without being able to explain where we were offering them a safe place. To get the word out about it while maintaining our illusion of ruthless cruelty." The starlight guttered in his eyes. "Over the years, we encountered a few. Some were able to make it here. Some were ... beyond our help." Something moved in the darkness beyond the doors, but I kept my focus on his face, on his tensed shoulders. "If the wall comes down, will ...?" I couldn't finish the words. Rhys slid his fingers through mine, interlacing our hands. "Yes. If there are those, human or faerie, who need a safe place ... this city will be open to them. Velaris has been closed off for so long--too long, perhaps. Adding new people, from different places, different histories and cultures ... I do not see how that could be a bad thing. The transition might be more complex than we anticipate, but ... yes. The gates to this city will be open for those who need its protection. To any who can make it here." I squeezed his hand, savoring the hard-earned calluses on it. No, I would not let him bear the burden of this war, its cost, alone. Rhys glanced to the open doors--to the hooded and cloaked figure patiently waiting in the shadows beyond them. Every aching sinew and bone locked up as I took in the pale robes, the hood crowned with a limpid blue stone, the panel that could be lowered over the eyes-- Priestess. "This is Clotho," Rhys said calmly, releasing my hand to guide me toward the awaiting female. The weight of his hand on my lower back told me enough about how much he realized the sight of her would jar me. "She's one of the dozens of priestesses who work here." Clotho lowered her head in a bow, but said nothing. "I--I didn't know that the priestesses left their temples." "A library is a temple of sorts," Rhys said with a wry smile. "But the priestesses here ..." As we entered the library proper, golden lights flickered to life. As if Clotho had been in utter darkness until we'd entered. "They are special. Unique." She angled her head in what might have been amusement. Her face remained in shadow, her slim body concealed in those pale, heavy robes. Silence--and yet life danced around her. Rhys smiled warmly at the priestess. "Did you find the texts?" And it was only when she bobbed her head in a sort of "so- so" motion that I realized either she could not or would not speak. Clotho gestured to her left--into the library itself. And I dragged my eyes away from the mute priestess long enough to take in the library. Not a cavernous room in a manor. Not even close. This was... It was as if the base of the mountain had been hollowed out by some massive digging beast, leaving a pit descending into the dark heart of the world. Around that gaping hole, carved into the mountain itself, spiraled level after level of shelves and books and reading areas, leading into the inky black. From what I could see of the various levels as I drifted toward the carved stone railing overlooking the drop, the stacks shot far into the mountain itself, like the spokes of a mighty wheel. And through it all, fluttering like moth's wings, the rustle of paper and parchment. Silent, and yet alive. Awake and humming and restless, some many-limbed beast at constant work. I peered upward, finding more levels rising toward the House above. And lurking far below ... Darkness. "What's at the bottom of the pit?" I asked as Rhys came up beside me, his shoulder brushing mine. "I once dared Cassian to fly down and see." Rhys braced his hands on the railing, gazing down into the gloom. "And?" "And he came back up, faster than I've ever seen him fly, white as death. He never told me what he saw. The first few weeks, I thought it was a joke--just to pique my curiosity. But when I finally decided to see for myself a month later, he threatened to tie me to a chair. He said some things were better left unseen and undisturbed. It's been two hundred years, and he still won't tell me what he saw. If you even mention it, he goes pale and shaky and won't talk for a few hours." My blood chilled. "Is it ... some sort of monster?" "I have no idea." Rhys jerked his chin toward Clotho, the priestess patiently waiting a few steps behind us, her face still in shadow. "They don't speak or write of it, so if they know ... They certainly won't tell me. So if it doesn't bother us, then I won't bother it. That is, if it's even an it. Cassian never said if he saw anything living down there. Perhaps it's something else entirely." Considering the things I'd already witnessed ... I didn't want to think about what lay at the bottom of the library. Or what could make Cassian, who had seen more dreadful and deadly parts of the world than I could ever imagine, so terrified. Robes rustling, Clotho aimed for the sloping walkway into the library, and we fell into step behind her. The floors were red stone, like the rest of the place, but smooth and polished. I wondered if any of the priestesses had ever gone sledding down the spiraling path. Not that I know of, Rhys said into my mind. But Mor and I once tried when we were children. My mother caught us on our third level down, and we were sent to bed without supper. I clamped down on my smile. Was it such a crime? It was when we'd oiled up the floor, and the scholars were falling on their faces. I coughed to cover my laugh, lowering my head, even with Clotho a few steps ahead. We passed stacks of books and parchment, the shelves either built into the stone itself or made of dark, solid wood. Hallways lined with both vanished into the mountain itself, and every few minutes, a little reading area popped up, full of tidy tables, low-burning glass lamps, and deep-cushioned chairs and couches. Ancient woven rugs adorned the floors beneath them, usually set before fireplaces that had been carved into the rock and kept well away from any shelves, their grates fine-meshed enough to retain any wandering embers. Cozy, despite the size of the space; warm, despite the unknown terror lurking below. If the others piss me off too much, I like to come down here for some peace and quiet. I smiled slightly at Rhys, who kept looking ahead as we spoke mind to mind. Don't they know by now that they can find you down here? Of course. But I never go to the same spot twice in a row, so it usually takes them so long to find me that they don't bother. Plus, they know that if I'm here, its because I want to be alone. Poor baby High Lord, I crooned. Having to run away to find solitude perfect for brooding. Rhys pinched my behind, and I clamped down on my lip to keep from yelping. I could have sworn Clotho's shoulders shook with laughter. But before I could bite off Rhys's head for the rippling pain my aching back muscles felt in the wake of the sudden movement, Clotho led us into a reading area about three levels down, the massive worktable laden with fat, ancient books bound in various dark leathers. A neat stack of paper was set to one side, along with an assortment of pens, and the reading lamps were at full glow, merry and sparkling in the gloom. A silver tea service gleamed on a low-lying table between the two leather couches before the grumbling fireplace, steam curling from the arched spout of the kettle. Biscuits and little sandwiches filled the platter beside it, along with a fat pile of napkins that subtly hinted we use them before touching the books. "Thank you," Rhys told the priestess, who only pulled a book off the pile she'd undoubtedly gathered and opened it to a marked page. The ancient velvet ribbon was the color of old blood--but it was her hand that struck me as it met the golden light of the lamps. Her fingers were crooked. Bent and twisted at such angles I would have thought her born with them were it not for the scarring. For a heartbeat, I was in a spring wood. For a heartbeat, I heard the crunch of stone on flesh and bone as I made another priestess smash her hand. Over and over. Rhys put a hand on my lower back. The effort it must have taken Clotho to move everything into place with those gnarled hands ... But she looked toward another book--or at least her head turned that way--and it slid over to her. Magic. Right. She gestured with a finger that was bent in two different directions to the page she'd selected, then to the book. "I'll look," Rhys said, then inclined his head. "We'll give a shout if we need anything." Clotho bowed her head again and began striding away, careful and silent. "Thank you," I said to her. The priestess paused, looking back, and bowed her head, hood swaying. Within seconds, she was gone. I stared after her, even as Rhys slid into one of the two chairs before the piles of books. "A long time ago, Clotho was hurt very badly by a group of males," Rhys said quietly. I didn't need details to know what that had entailed. The edge in Rhys's voice implied enough. "They cut out her tongue so she couldn't tell anyone who had hurt her. And smashed her hands so she couldn't write it." Every word was more clipped than the last, and darkness snarled through the small space. My stomach turned. "Why not kill her?" "Because it was more entertaining for them that way. That is, until Mor found her. And brought her to me." When he'd undoubtedly looked into her mind and seen their faces. "I let Mor hunt them." His wings tucked in tightly. "And when she finished, she stayed down here for a month. Helping Clotho heal as best as could be expected, but also ... wiping away the stain of them." Mor's trauma had been different, but ... I understood why she'd done it, wanted to be here. I wondered if it had granted her any measure of closure. "Cassian and Azriel were healed completely after Hybern. Nothing could be done for Clotho?" "The males were ... healing her as they hurt her. Making the injuries permanent. When Mor found her, the damage had been set. They hadn't finished her hands, so we were able to salvage them, give her some use, but ... To heal her, the wounds would have needed to be ripped open again. I offered to take the pain away while it was done, but ... She could not endure it--what having the wounds open again would trigger in her mind. Her heart. She has lived down here since then-- with others like her. Her magic helps with her mobility." I knew we should begin working, but I asked, "Are ... all the priestesses in this library like her?" "Yes." The word held centuries of rage and pain. "I made this library into a refuge for them. Some come to heal, work as acolytes, and then leave; some take the oaths to the Cauldron and Mother to become priestesses and remain here forever. But it belongs to them whether they stay a week or a lifetime. Outsiders are allowed to use the library for research, but only if the priestesses approve. And only if they take binding oaths to do no harm while they visit. This library belongs to them." "Who was here before them?" "A few cranky old scholars, who cursed me soundly when I relocated them to other libraries in the city. They still get access, but when and where is always approved by the priestesses." Choice. It had always been about my choice with him. And for others as well. Long before he'd ever learned the hard way about it. The question must have been in my eyes because Rhys added, "I came here a great deal in those weeks after Under the Mountain." My throat tightened as I leaned in to brush a kiss to his cheek. "Thank you for sharing this place with me." "It belongs to you, too, now." And I knew he meant not just in terms of us being mates, but ... in the ways it belonged to the other females here. Who had endured and survived. I gave him a half smile. "I suppose it's a miracle that I can even stand to be underground." But his features remained solemn, contemplative. "It is." He added softly, "I'm very proud of you." My eyes burned, and I blinked as I faced the books. "And I suppose," I said with an effort at lightness, "that it's a miracle I can actually read these things." Rhys's answering smile was lovely--and just a bit wicked. "I believe my little lessons helped." "Yes, 'Rhys is the greatest lover a female can hope for' is undoubtedly how I learned to read." "I was only trying to tell you what you now know." My blood heated a bit. "Hmmm," was all I said, pulling a book toward me. "I'll take that hmmm as a challenge." His hand slid down my thigh, then cupped my knee, his thumb brushing along its side. Even through my leathers, the heat of him seeped to my very bones. "Maybe I'll haul you between the stacks and see how quiet you can be." "Hmmm." I flipped through the pages, not seeing any of the text. His hand began a lethal, taunting exploration up my thigh, his fingers grazing along the sensitive inside. Higher, higher. He leaned in to drag a book toward himself, but whispered in my ear, "Or maybe I'll spread you out on this desk and lick you until you scream loud enough to wake whatever is at the bottom of the library." I whipped my head toward him. His eyes were glazed-- almost sleepy. "I was fully committed to that plan," I said, even as his hand stopped very, very close to the apex of my thighs, "until you brought in that thing down below." A feline smile. He held my stare as his tongue brushed his bottom lip. My breasts tightened beneath my shirt, and his gaze dropped--watching. "I would have thought," he mused, "that our bout this morning would be enough to tide you over until tonight." His hand slid between my legs, brazenly cupping me, his thumb pushing down on an aching spot. A low groan slipped from me, and my cheeks heated in its wake. "Apparently, I didn't do a good enough job sating you, if you're so easily riled after a few hours." "Prick," I breathed, but the word was ragged. His thumb pressed down harder, circling roughly. Rhys leaned in again, kissing my neck--that place right under my ear--and said against my skin, "Let's see what names you call me when my head is between your legs, Feyre darling." And then he was gone. He'd winnowed away, half the books with him. I started, my body foreign and cold, dizzy and disoriented. Where the hell are you? I scanned around me, and found nothing but shadow and merry flame and books. Two levels below. And why are you two levels below? I shoved out of my chair, back aching in protest as I stormed for the walkway and rail beyond, then peered down into the gloom. Sure enough, in a reading area two levels below, I could spy his dark hair and wings--could spy him leaning back in his chair before an identical desk, an ankle crossed over a knee. Smirking up at me. Because I can't work with you distracting me. I scowled at him. I'm distracting you? If you're sitting next to me, the last thing on my mind is reading dusty old books. Especially when you're in all that tight leather. Pig. His chuckle echoed up through the library amid the fluttering papers and scratching pens of the priestesses working throughout. How can you winnow inside the House? I thought there were wards against it. The library makes its own rules, apparently. I snorted. Two hours of work, he promised me, turning back to the table and flaring his wings--a veritable screen to block my view of him. And his view of me. Then we can play. I gave him a vulgar gesture. I saw that. I did it again, and his laugh floated to me as I faced the books stacked before me and began to read. We found a myriad of information about the wall and its forming. When we compared our notes two hours later, many of the texts were conflicting, all of them claiming absolute authority on the subject. But there were a few similar details that Rhys had not known. He had been healing at the cabin in the mountains when they'd formed the wall, when they'd signed that Treaty. The details that emerged had been murky at best, but the various texts Clotho had dug up on the wall's formation and rules agreed on one thing: it had never been made to last. No, initially, the wall had been a temporary solution--to cleave human and faerie until peace settled long enough for them to later reconvene. And decide how they were to live together--as one people. But the wall had remained. Humans had grown old and died, and their children had forgotten the promises of their parents, their grandparents, their ancestors. And the High Fae who survived ... it was a new world, without slaves. Lesser faeries stepped in to replace the missing free labor; territory boundaries had been redrawn to accommodate those displaced. Such a great shift in the world in those initial centuries, so many working to move past war, to heal, that the wall ... the wall became permanent. The wall became legend. "Even if all seven courts ally," I said as we plucked grapes from a silver bowl in a quiet sitting room in the House of Wind, having left the dim library for some much-needed sunshine, "even if Keir and the Court of Nightmares join, too ... Will we stand a chance in this war?" Rhys leaned back in the embroidered chair before the floor- to-ceiling window. Velaris was a glittering sprawl below and beyond--serene and lovely, even with the scars of battle now peppering it. "Army against army, the possibility of victory is slim." Blunt, honest words. I shifted in my own identical chair on the other side of the low-lying table between us. "Could you ... If you and the King of Hybern went head to head ..." "Would I win?" Rhys lifted a brow, and studied the city. "I don't know. He's been smart about keeping the extent of his power hidden. But he had to resort to trickery and threats to beat us that day in Hybern. He has thousands of years of knowledge and training. If he and I fought ... I doubt he will let it come to that. He stands a better chance at sure victory by overwhelming us with numbers, in stretching us thin. If we fought one-on-one, if he'd even accept an open challenge from me ... the damage would be catastrophic. And that's without him wielding the Cauldron." My heart stumbled. Rhys went on, "I'm willing to take the brunt of it, if it means the others will at least stand with us against him." I clenched the tufted arms of the chair. "You shouldn't have to." "It might be the only choice." "I don't accept that as an option." He blinked at me. "Prythian might need me as an option." Because with that power of his ... He'd take on the king and his entire army. Burn himself out until he was-- "I need you. As an option. In my future." Silence. And even with the sun warming my feet, a terrible cold spread through me. His throat bobbed. "If it means giving you a future, then Pm willing to do--" "You will do no such thing." I panted through my bared teeth, leaning forward in my chair. Rhys only watched me, eyes shadowed. "How can you ask me not to give everything I have to ensure that you, that my family and people, survive?" "You've given enough." "Not enough. Not yet." It was hard to breathe, to see past the burning in my eyes. "Why? Where does this come from, Rhys?" For once, he didn't answer. And there was something brittle enough in his expression, some long unhealed wound that glimmered there, that I sighed, rubbed my face, and then said, "Just--work with me. With all of us. Together. This isn't your burden alone." He plucked another grape from its stem, chewed. His lips tilted in a faint smile. "So what do you propose, then?" I could still see that vulnerability in his eyes, still feel it in that bond between us, but I angled my head. I sorted through all I knew, all that had happened. Considered the books I'd read in the library below. A library that housed-- "Amren warned us to never put the two halves of the Book together," I mused. "But we--I did. She said that older things might be ... awoken by it. Might come sniffing." Rhys crossed an ankle over a knee. "Hybern might have the numbers," I said, "but what if we had the monsters? You said Hybern will see an alliance with all the courts coming--but perhaps not one with things wholly unconnected." I leaned forward. "And I'm not talking about the monsters roaming across the world. I am talking about one in particular--who has nothing to lose and everything to gain." One that I would do everything in my power to use, rather than let Rhys face the brunt of this alone. His brows rose. "Oh?" "The Bone Carver," I clarified. "He and Amren have both been looking for a way back to their own worlds." The Carver had been insistent, relentless, in asking me that day in the Prison about where I had gone during death. I could have sworn Rhys's golden-brown skin paled, but I added, "I wonder if it's time to ask him what he'd give to go back home." <|title|>Chapter 21 <|startofchapter|>The aching muscles along my back, core, and thighs had gone into complete revolt by the time Rhys and I parted ways, my mate heading off to track down Cassian--who would be my escort tomorrow morning to the Prison. If both of us had gone, it would perhaps look too ... desperate, too vital. But if the High Lady and her general went to visit the Carver to pose some hypothetical questions ... It would still show our hand, but perhaps not quite how badly we needed any extra bit of assistance. And Cassian, unsurprisingly, knew more about the Carver than anyone thanks to some morbid fascination with all of the Prison's inmates. Especially since he was responsible for jailing some of them. But while Rhys sought out Cassian, I had a task of my own. I was wincing and hissing as I strode through the murky red halls of the House to find my sister and Amren. To see which of them was still standing after their first lesson. Among other things. I found them in a quiet, forgotten workroom, coldly watching the other. Books lay scattered on the table between them. A ticking clock by the dusty cabinets was the only sound. "Sorry to interrupt your staring contest," I said, lingering in the doorway. I rubbed at a spot low in my back. "I wanted to see how the first lesson was going." "Fine." Amren didn't take her eyes off my sister, a faint smile playing about her red mouth. I studied Nesta, who gazed at Amren, utterly stone-faced. "What are you doing?" "Waiting," Amren said. "For what?" "For busybodies to leave us alone." I straightened, clearing my throat. "Is this part of her training?" Amren turned her head to me with exaggerated slowness, her chin-length, razor-straight hair shifting with the movement. "Rhys has his own method of training you. I have mine." Her white teeth flashed with every word. "We visit the Court of Nightmares tomorrow night--she needs some basic training before we do." "Like what?" Amren sighed at the ceiling. "Shielding herself. From prying minds and powers." I blinked. I should have thought of that. That if Nesta were to join us, be at the Hewn City ... she would need some defenses beyond what we could offer her. Nesta at last looked to me, her face as cold as ever. "Are you all right?" I asked her. Amren clicked her tongue. "She's fine. Stubborn as an ass, but as you're related, I'm not surprised." I scowled. "How am I supposed to know what your methods are? For all I know, you picked up some terrible techniques in that Prison." Careful. So, so careful. Amren hissed, "That place taught me plenty of things, but certainly not this." I angled my head, the portrait of curiosity. "Did you ever interact with the others?" The fewer people who knew about my trip tomorrow to see the Carver, the safer it was--the less chance of Hybern catching wind of it. Not for any fear of betrayal, but ... there was always risk. Azriel, now off hunting for information on the Autumn Court, would be told when he returned tonight. Mor ... I'd tell her eventually. But Amren ... Rhys and I had decided to wait to tell Amren. The last time we'd gone to the Prison, she'd been ... testy. Telling her we planned to unleash one of her fellow inmates? Perhaps not the best thing to mention while we waited for her to find a way to heal that wall--and train my sister. Impatience rippled across Amren's face, those silver eyes flaring. "I only spoke to them in whispers and echoes through rock, girl. And I was glad of it." "What's the Prison?" Nesta asked at last. "A hell entombed in stone," Amren said. "Full of creatures you should thank the Mother no longer walk the earth freely." Nesta frowned deeply, but shut her mouth. "Like who?" I asked. Any extra information she might have Amren bared her teeth. "I am giving a magic lesson, not a history one." She waved a dismissive hand. "If you want someone to gossip with, go find one of the dogs. I'm sure Cassian's still sniffing around upstairs." Nesta's lips twitched upward. Amren pointed at her with a slender finger ending in a sharp, manicured nail. "Concentrate. Vital organs must be shielded at all times." I tapped a hand against the open doorway. "I'll keep looking for more information for you in the library, Amren." No response. "Good luck," I added. "She doesn't need luck," Amren said. Nesta huffed a laugh. I took that as the only farewell I'd get. Perhaps letting Amren and Nesta train together was ... a bad choice. Even if the prospect of unleashing them upon the Court of Nightmares ... I smiled a bit at the thought. By the time Mor, Rhys, Cassian, and I gathered for dinner at the town house--Azriel still off spying--my muscles were so sore I could barely walk up the front stairs. Sore enough that any plans I had to visit Lucien up at the House after the meal vanished. Mor was testy and quiet throughout, no doubt in anticipation of the visit tomorrow night. She'd had to work with Keir plenty throughout the centuries, and yet tomorrow ... She'd only warned Rhys once while we ate that he should thoroughly consider any offer Keir might give him in exchange for his army. Rhys had shrugged, saying he'd think about it when the time came. A non-answer --and one that made Mor grit her teeth. I didn't blame her. Long before the War, her family had brutalized her in ways I didn't let myself consider. Not a day before I was to meet with them again--ask them for help. Work with them. Rhys, Mother bless him, had a bath waiting for me after the meal. I'd need all my strength for tomorrow. For the monsters I was to face beneath two very different mountains. I had not visited this place for months. But the carved stone walls were just as I'd last seen them, the darkness still interrupted by bracketed torches. Not the Prison. Under the Mountain. But instead of Clare's mutilated body spiked high to the wall above me ... Her blue-gray eyes were still wide with terror. Gone was the haughty iciness, the queenly jut to her chin. Nesta. They'd done precisely to her, wound for wound, what they'd done to Clare. And behind me, screaming and pleading-- I turned, finding Elain, naked and weeping, tied to that enormous spit. What I had once been threatened to endure. Gnarled, masked faeries rotated the iron handles, turning her over-- I tried to move. Tried to lunge. But I was frozen--utterly bound by invisible chains to the floor. Feminine laughter flitted from the other end of that throne room. From the dais. Now empty. Empty, because that was Amarantha, strutting into the gloom, down some hall that hadn't been there before but now stretched away into nothing. Rhysand followed a step behind her. Going with her. To that bedroom. He looked over his shoulder at me, only once. Over his wings. His wings, which were out, which she'd see and destroy, right after she-- I was screaming for him to stop. Thrashing at those bonds. Elain's pleading rose, higher and higher. Rhys kept walking with Amarantha. Let her take his hand and tug him along. I couldn't move, couldn't stop it, any of it-- I was hauled out of the dream like a thrashing fish from a net cast deep into the sea. And when I surfaced ... I remained half there. Half in my body, half Under the Mountain, watching as-- "Breathe." The word was an order. Laced with that primal command he so rarely wielded. But my eyes focused. My chest expanded. I slipped a bit further back into my body. "Again." I did so. His face came into view, faelights murmuring to life inside their lamps and bowls in our bedroom. His wings were tucked in tight, framing his disheveled hair, his drawn face. Rhys. "Again," he only said. I obeyed. My bones had turned brittle, my stomach a roiling mess. I closed my eyes, fighting the nausea. Rippling terror kept its talons buried deep. I could still see it: the way she'd led him down that hall. To-- I surged, rolling to the edge of the mattress and clamping down hard as my body tried to heave up its contents onto the carpet. His hand was instantly on my back, rubbing soothing circles. Utterly willing to let me vomit right over the side of the bed. But I focused on my breathing. On closing down those memories, one by one. Memories repainted. I lay half sprawled over the edge for uncounted minutes. He rubbed my back throughout. When I could finally move, when the nausea had subsided ... I twisted back over. And the sight of that face ... I slid my arms around his waist, gripping tightly as he pressed a silent kiss to my hair, reminding myself over and over that we were out. We had survived. Never again--never again would I let someone hurt him like that. Hurt my sisters like that. Never again. <|title|>Chapter 22 <|startofchapter|>I felt Rhys's attention on me while we dressed the next morning, and throughout our hearty breakfast. Yet he didn't push, didn't demand to know what had dragged me into that screaming hell. It had been a long while since those nightmares had hauled either of us from sleep. Blurred the lines. It was only when we stood in the foyer, waiting for Cassian before we winnowed to the Prison, that Rhys asked from where he leaned against the stair banister, "Do you need to talk about it?" My Illyrian leathers groaned as I turned toward him. Rhys clarified, "With me--or anyone." I answered him truthfully, tugging at the end of my braid. "With everything bearing down on us, everything at stake ..." I let my braid drop. "I don't know. I think it's torn open some ... part of me that was slowly repairing." Repairing thanks to both of us. He nodded, no fear or reproach in his eyes. So I told him. All of it. Stumbling over the parts that still made me ill. He only listened. And when I was done, that shakiness remained, but ... Speaking it, voicing it aloud to him ... The savage grip of those terrors lightened. Cleared away like dew in the sun. I freed a long breath, as if blowing those fears from me, letting my body loosen in its wake. Rhys silently pushed off the banister and kissed me. Once. Twice. Cassian stalked through the front door a heartbeat later and groaned that it was too early to stomach the sight of us kissing. My mate only snarled at him before he took us both by the hand and winnowed us to the Prison. Rhys gripped my fingers tighter than usual as the wind ripped around us, Cassian now wisely keeping silent. And as we emerged from that black, tumbling wind, Rhys leaned over to kiss me a third time, sweet and soft, before the gray light and roaring wind greeted us. Apparently, the Prison was cold and misty no matter the time of year. Standing at the base of the mossy, rocky mountain under which the Prison was built, Cassian and I frowned up the slope. Despite the Illyrian leathers, the chill seeped into my bones. I rubbed at my arms, lifting my brows at Rhys, who had remained in his usual attire, so out of place in this damp, windy speck of green in the middle of a gray sea. The wind ruffled his black hair as he surveyed us, Cassian already sizing up the mountain like some opponent. Twin Illyrian blades were crossed over the general's muscled back. "When you're in there," Rhys said, the words barely audible over the wind and silver streams running down the mountainside, "you won't be able to reach me." "Why?" I rubbed my already-freezing hands together before puffing a hot breath into the cradle of my palms. "Wards and spells far older than Prythian," was all Rhys said. He jerked his chin to Cassian. "Don't let each other out of your sight." It was the dead seriousness with which Rhys spoke that kept me from retorting. Indeed, my mate's eyes were hard--unflinching. While we were here, he and Azriel were to discuss what he'd found out about Autumn's leanings in this war. And then adjust their strategy for the meeting with the High Lords. But I could sense it, the urge to request he join us. Watch over us. "Shout down the bond when you're out again," Rhys said with a mildness that didn't reach his gaze. Cassian looked back over a shoulder. "Get back to Velaris, you mother hen. We'll be fine." Rhys leveled another uncharacteristically hard stare at him. "Remember who you put in here, Cassian." Cassian just tucked in his wings, as if every muscle shifted toward battle. Steady and solid as the mountain we were about to climb. With a wink at me, Rhys vanished. Cassian checked the buckles on his swords and motioned me to start the long trek up the hill. My gut tightened at the climb ahead. The shrieking hollowness of this place. "Who did you put in here?" The mossy earth cushioned my steps. Cassian put a scar-flecked finger to his lips. "Best left for another time." Right. I fell into step beside him, my thighs burning with the steep hike. Mist chilled my face. Conserving his strength-- Cassian wasn't wasting a drop of energy on shielding us from the elements. "You really think unleashing the Carver will do the trick against Hybern?" "You're the general," I panted, "you tell me." He considered, the wind tossing his dark hair over his tan face. "Even if you promise to find a way to send him back to his own world with the Book, or give him whatever unholy thing he wants," Cassian mused, "I think you'd better find a way to control him in this world, or else we'll be fighting enemies on all fronts. And I know which one will hand our asses to us." "The Carver's that bad." "You're asking this right before we're to meet with him?" I hissed, "I assumed Rhys would have put his foot down if it was that risky." "Rhys has been known to hatch plans that make my heart stop dead," Cassian grumbled. "So, I wouldn't count on him to be the voice of reason." I scowled at Cassian, earning a wolfish grin in return. But Cassian scanned the heavy gray sky, as if hunting for spying eyes. Then the moss and grass and rocks beneath our boots for listening ears below. "There was life here," he said, answering my question at last, "before the High Lords took Prythian. Old gods, we call them. They ruled the forests and the rivers and the mountains--some were those things. Then the magic shifted to the High Fae, who brought the Cauldron and Mother along with them, and though the old gods were still worshipped by a select few, most people forgot them." I grappled onto a large gray rock as I climbed over it. "The Bone Carver was an old god?" He dragged a hand through his hair, the Siphon gleaming in the watery light. "That's what legend says. Along with whispers of being able to fell hundreds of soldiers with one breath." A chill rippled down my skin that had nothing to do with the brisk wind. "Useful on a battlefield." Cassian's golden-brown skin paled while his eyes churned with the thought. "Not without the proper precautions. Not without him being bound to obey us within an inch of his life." Which I'd have to figure out as well, I supposed. "How did he wind up here--in the Prison?" "I don't know. No one does." Cassian helped me over a boulder, his hand gripping mine tightly. "But How do you plan on freeing him from the Prison?" I winced. "I suppose our friend would know, since she got out." Careful--we had to be careful when mentioning Amren's name here. Cassian's face grew solemn. "She doesn't talk about how she did it, Feyre. I'd be careful how you push her." Since we still had not told Amren where we were today. What we were doing. I thought about saying more, but ahead, far up the slope, the massive bone gates opened. I'd forgotten it--the weight of the air inside the Prison. Like wading through the unstirred air of a tomb. Like stealing a breath from the open mouth of a skull. We both bore an Illyrian blade in one hand, the faelight bobbing ahead to show the way, occasionally dancing and sliding along the shining metal. Our other hands ... Cassian clenched my fingers as tightly as I clutched his while we descended into the eternal blackness of the Prison, our steps crunching on the dry ground. There were no doors--none that we could see. But behind that solid, black rock, I could still feel them. Could have sworn a faint scratching sound filled the passage. From the other side of that rock. As if someone were running their nails down it. Something huge--and old. And quiet as the wind through a field of wheat. Cassian kept utterly silent, tracking something--counting something. "This could be ... a very bad idea," I admitted, my grip tightening on his hand. "Oh, it most certainly is," Cassian said with a faint smile as we continued down and down into the heavy black and thrumming silence. "But this is war. We don't have the luxury of good ideas--only picking between the bad ones." The Bone Carver's cell door swung open the moment I laid my palm to it. "Worth the misery of being Rhys's mate," Cassian quipped as the white bone swung away into darkness. A light chuckle within. The amusement faded from Cassian's face at the sound--as we walked into the cell, still hand in hand. The orb of faelight bobbed ahead, illuminating the stone- hewn cell. Cassian growled at what it revealed. Who it revealed. Wholly different, no doubt, from the same young boy who now smiled at me. Dark-haired, with eyes of crushing blue. I started at the child's face--what I had not noticed that first time. What I had not understood. It was Rhysand's face. The coloring, the eyes ... It was my mate's face. But the Carver's full, wide mouth, curled into that hideous smile ... That was my mouth. My father's mouth. The hair on my arms rose. The Carver inclined his head in greeting--in greeting and in confirmation, as if he knew precisely what I realized. Who I had seen and was still seeing. The High Lord's son. My son. Our son. Should we survive long enough to bear him. Should I not fail in my task to recruit the Carver. Should we not fail to unify the High Lords and the Court of Nightmares. And keep that wall intact. It was an effort to keep my knees from buckling. Cassian's face was pale enough that I knew whatever he was seeing ... it wasn't a beautiful young boy. "I was wondering when you'd return," the Carver said, that boy's voice sweet and yet dreadful--from the ancient creature that lurked beneath it. "High Lady," he added to me. "Please accept my congratulations on your union." A glance at Cassian. "I can smell the wind on you." Another little smile. "Have you brought me a gift?" I reached into the pocket of my jacket and chucked a small shard of bone, no bigger than my hand, at the Carver's feet. "This is all that's left of the Attor after I splattered him on the streets of Velaris." Those blue eyes flared with unholy delight. I hadn't even known we'd kept this fragment. It had been stored until now-- precisely for this sort of thing. "So bloodthirsty, my new High Lady," the Carver purred, picking up the cracked bone and turning it over in those small, delicate hands. And then the Carver said, "I smell my sister on you, Cursebreaker." My mouth went dry. His sister-- "Did you steal from her? Did she weave a thread of your life into her loom?" The Weaver of the Wood. My heart thundered. No breathing could steady it. Cassian's hand tightened around mine. The Carver purred to Cassian, "If I tell you a secret, warrior-heart, what will you give me?" Neither of us spoke. Carefully--we'd have to phrase and do this so carefully. The Carver stroked the shard of bone in his palm, attention fixed upon a stone-faced Cassian. "What if I tell you what the rock and darkness and sea beyond whispered to me, Lord of Bloodshed? How they shuddered in fear, on that island across the sea. How they trembled when she emerged. She took something--something precious. She ripped it out with her teeth." Cassian's golden-brown face had drained of color, his wings tucking in tight. "What did you wake that day in Hybern, Prince of Bastards?" My blood went cold. "What came out was not what went in." A rasping laugh as the Carver laid the shard of bone on the ground beside him. "How lovely she is--new as a fawn and yet ancient as the sea. How she calls to you. A queen, as my sister once was. Terrible and proud; beautiful as a winter sunrise." Rhys had warned me of the inmates' capacity to lie, to sell anything, to get free. "Nesta," the Bone Carver murmured. "Nes-ta." I squeezed Cassian's hand. Enough. It was enough of this teasing and taunting. But he didn't look at me. "How the wind moans her name. Can you hear it, too? Nesta. Nesta. Nesta." I wasn't sure Cassian was breathing. "What did she do, drowning in the ageless dark? What did she take?" It was the bite in the last word that snapped my tether of restraint. "If you wish to find out, perhaps you should stop talking long enough for us to explain." My voice seemed to shake Cassian free of whatever trance he'd been in. His breathing surged, tight and fast, and he scanned my face--apology in his eyes. The Carver chuckled. "I so rarely get company. Forgive me for wanting to make idle talk." He crossed an ankle over a foot. "And why have you sought my services?" "We attained the Book of Breathings," I said casually. "There are ... interesting spells inside. Codes within codes within codes. Someone we know cracked most of them. She is still looking for others. Spells that could ... send someone like her home. Others like her, too." The Carver's violet eyes flared bright as flame. "I'm listening." <|title|>Chapter 23 <|startofchapter|>"War is upon us," I said to the Carver. "Rumor suggests you have ... gifts that may be useful upon the battlefield." A smile at Cassian, as if understanding why he'd joined me. "In exchange for a price," the Carver mused. "Within reason," Cassian countered. The Carver surveyed his cell. "And you think that I wish to go ... back." "Don't you?" The Carver folded his legs beneath his small frame. "Where we came from ... I do not believe it is now anything more than dust drifting across a plain. There is no home to return to. Not one that I desire." For if he'd been here before even Amren had arrived ... Tens of thousands of years--longer, perhaps. I shoved against the sinking sensation in my gut. "Then perhaps improving your ... living conditions might entice you, if this world is where you wish to be." "This cell, Cursebreaker, is where I wish to be." The Carver patted the dirt beside him. "Do you think I let them trap me without good reason?" Cassian's entire body seemed to shift--seemed to go aware and focused. Ready to haul us out of there. The Carver traced three overlapping, interlocked circles in the dirt. "You have met my sister--my twin. The Weaver, as you now call her. I knew her as Stryga. She, and our older brother, Koschei. How they delighted in this world when we fell into it. How those ancient Fae feared and worshipped them. Had I been braver, I might have bided my time--waited for their power to fade, for that long-ago Fae warrior to trick Stryga into diminishing her power and becoming confined to the Middle. Koschei, too--confined and bound by his little lake on the continent. All before Prythian, before the land was carved up and any High Lord was crowned." Cassian and I waited, not daring to interrupt. "Clever, that Fae warrior. Her bloodline is long gone now-- though a trace still runs through some human line." He smiled, perhaps a bit sadly. "No one remembers her name. But I do. She would have been my salvation, had I not made my choice long before she walked this earth." I waited and waited and waited, picking apart the story he laid out like crumbs of bread. "She could not kill them in the end--they were too strong. They could only be contained." The Carver wiped a hand through the circles he'd drawn, erasing them wholly. "I knew that long before she ever trapped them--took it upon myself to find my way here." "To spare the world from yourself?" Cassian asked, brows narrowing. The Carver's eyes burned like the hottest flame. "To hide from my siblings." I blinked. "Why?" "They are death-gods, girl," the Carver hissed. "You are immortal--or long-lived enough to seem that way. But my siblings and I ... We are different. And the two of them ... Stronger. So much stronger than I ever was. My sister ... she found a way to eat life itself. To stay young and beautiful forever thanks to the lives she steals." The weaving--the threads inside that house, the roof made of hair ... I made a note to throw Rhys in the Sidra for sending me into that cottage. But the Carver himself ... "If they are death-gods," I said, "then what are you?" Death. He had asked me, over and over, about death. About what waited beyond it, what it felt like. Where I had gone. I'd thought it mere curiosity, but ... That boy's face crinkled with amusement. My son's face. The vision of the future that had once been shown to me all those months ago, as some sort of taunt or embodiment of what I hadn't dared yet admit to myself. What I was most uncertain of. And now ... now that young boy ... A different sort of taunt, for the future I now stood to lose. "I am forgotten, that's what I am. And that's how I prefer to be." The Carver rested his head against the wall of rock behind him. "So you will find that I do not wish to leave. That I have no desire to remind my sister and brother that I am alive and in the world. Contained and diminished as they are, their influence remains ... considerable." "If Hybern wins this war," Cassian said roughly, "you might find the gates of this place blown wide open. And your sister and brother unleashed from their own territories--and interested in paying a visit." "Even Hybern is not that foolish." A satisfied huff of air. "I'm sure there are other inmates here who will find your offer ... tempting." My blood roared. "You will not even consider assisting us." I waved a hand to the cell. "This is what you would prefer-- for eternity?" "If you knew my brother and sister, Cursebreaker, you would find this a much wiser and more comfortable alternative." I opened my mouth, but Cassian squeezed my hand in warning. Enough. We'd said enough, revealed enough. Looking so desperate ... It would help nothing. "We should go," Cassian said to me, the very picture of unruffled calm. "The delights of the Hewn City await." We'd indeed be late if we didn't leave now. I threw a glare at the Carver by way of farewell, letting Cassian lead me toward the open cell door. "You are going to the Hewn City," the Carver said--not entirely a question. "I don't see how that is any business of yours," I said over my shoulder. The Carver's beat of silence echoed around us. Made us pause on the threshold. "One last attempt," the Carver mused, eyes skating over us, "to rally the entirety of the Night Court, I suppose." "Again, it is none of your concern," I said coolly. The Carver smiled. "You will be bargaining with him." A glance at the tattoo on my right hand. "I wonder what Keir's asking price will be." A low laugh. "Interesting." Cassian let out a long-suffering sigh. "Out with it." The Bone Carver again fell silent, toying with the shard of the Attor's bone in the dirt beside him. "The eddies of the Cauldron swirl in strange ways," he murmured, more to himself than us. "We're going," I said, making to turn again, hauling Cassian with me. "My sister had a collection of mirrors in her black castle," the Carver said. We halted once more. "She admired herself day and night in those mirrors, gloating over her youth and beauty. There was one mirror-- the Ouroboros, she called it. It was old even when we were young. A window to the world. All could be seen, all could be told through its dark surface. Keir possesses it--an heirloom of his household. Bring it to me. That is my price. The Ouroboros, and I am yours to wield. If you can find a way to free me." A hateful smile. I exchanged a glance with Cassian, and we both shrugged at the Carver. "We'll see," was all I said before we walked out. Cassian and I sat on a boulder overlooking a silver stream, breathing in the chill mists. The Prison loomed at our backs, a dreadful weight blocking out the horizon. "You said that you knew the Carver was an old god," I mused softly. "Did you know he was a death-god?" Cassian's face was taut. "I guessed." When I lifted a brow, he clarified, "He carves deaths into bones. Sees them. Enjoys them. It wasn't hard to figure out." I considered. "Was it you or Rhys who suggested you come here with me?" "I wanted to come. But Rhys ... he guessed it, too." Because what we'd seen in Nesta's eyes that day ... "Like calls to like," I murmured. Cassian nodded tightly. "I don't think even the Carver knows what Nesta is. But I wanted to see--just in case." "I want to help." It was answer enough. We fell into silence, the stream gurgling as it rushed by. "Would you be frightened of her, if Nesta was--Death? Or if her power came from it?" Cassian was quiet for a long moment. He said at last, "I'm a warrior. I've walked beside Death my entire life. I would be more afraid for her, to have that power. But not afraid of her." He considered, and added after a heartbeat, "Nothing about Nesta could frighten me." I swallowed, and squeezed his hand. "Thank you." I wasn't sure why I even said it, but he nodded all the same. I felt him before he appeared, a spark of star-kissed joy flaring through me right as Rhys stepped out of the air itself. "Well?" Cassian hopped off the boulder, extending a hand to help me down. "You're not going to like his asking price." Rhys held out both hands to winnow us back to Velaris. "If he wants the fancy dinner plates, he can have them." Neither Cassian nor I could muster a laugh as we both reached for Rhys's outstretched hands. "You better bring your bargaining skills tonight," was all Cassian muttered to my mate before we vanished into shadow. <|title|>Chapter 24 <|startofchapter|>When we returned to the town house in the height of summer afternoon heat, Cassian and Azriel drew sticks for who would remain in Velaris that night. Both wanted to join us at the Hewn City, but someone had to guard the city--part of their long-held protocol. And someone had to guard Elain, though I certainly wasn't about to tell Lucien that. Cassian, swearing and pissy, got the short stick, and Azriel only clapped him on the shoulder before heading up to the House to prepare. I followed after him a few minutes later, leaving Cassian to tell Rhys the rest of what the Carver had said. What he wanted. There were two people I needed to see up at the House before we left. I should have checked in on Elain earlier, should have remembered that her would-have-been wedding was in a few days, but ... I cursed myself for forgetting it. And as for Lucien ... It wouldn't hurt, I told myself, to keep tabs on where he was. How that conversation with Azriel had gone yesterday. Make sure he remembered the rules we'd set. But fifteen minutes later, I was trying not to wince as I walked down the halls of the House of Wind, grateful Azriel had gone ahead. I'd winnowed into the sky above the highest balcony--and since I figured now was as good a time as any to practice flying, I'd summoned wings. And fallen twenty feet onto hard stone. A rallied wind kept the fall from cracking any bones, but both my knees and my pride were significantly bruised by my graceless tumble through the air. At least no one had witnessed it. My stiff, limping steps, at least, had eased into a smoother gait by the time I found Elain in the family library. Still staring at the window, but she was out of her room. Nesta was reading in her usual chair, one eye on Elain, the other on the book spread in her lap. Only Nesta glanced my way as I slipped through the carved wooden doors. I murmured, "Hello," and shut the doors behind me. Elain didn't turn. She was wearing a pale pink gown that did little to complement her sallow skin, her brown-gold hair hanging in loose, heavy ringlets down her thin back. "It's a fine day," I said to them. Nesta arched an elegant eyebrow. "Where's your menagerie of friends?" I leveled a steely look back at her. "Those friends have offered you shelter and comfort." And training--or whatever Amren was doing. "Are you ready for tonight?" "Yes." Nesta merely resumed reading the book in her lap. Pure dismissal. I let out a little snort that I knew would make her see red, and strode for Elain. Nesta monitored my every step, a panther readying to strike at the merest hint of danger. "What are you looking at?" I asked Elain, keeping my voice soft. Casual. Her face was wan, her lips bloodless. But they moved-- barely--as she said, "I can see so very far now. All the way to the sea." Indeed, the sea beyond the Sidra was a distant sparkle. "It takes some getting used to." "I can hear your heartbeat--if I listen carefully. I can hear her heartbeat, too." "You can learn to drown out the sounds that bother you." I had--entirely on my own. I wondered if Nesta had as well, or if they both suffered, hearing each other's heartbeats day and night. I didn't look to my other sister to confirm it. Elain's eyes at last slid to mine. The first time she'd done SO. Even wasted away by grief and despair, Elain's beauty was remarkable. Hers was a face that could bring kings to their knees. And yet there was no joy in it. No light. No life. She said, "I can hear the sea. Even at night. Even in my dreams. The crashing sea--and the screams of a bird made of fire." It was an effort not to glance to Nesta. Even the town house was too far to hear anything from the nearby coast. And as for some fire-bird ... "There is a garden--at my other house," I said. "I'd like for you to come tend it, if you're willing." Elain only turned toward the sunny windows again, the light dancing in her hair. "Will I hear the earthworms writhing through the soil? Or the stretching of roots? Will the bird of fire come to sit in the trees and watch me?" I wasn't sure if I should answer. It was an effort to keep from shaking. But I caught Nesta's eye, noting the glimmer of pain on my eldest sister's face before it was hidden beneath that cool mask. "There's a book I need you to help me find, Nesta," I said, giving a pointed stare to the stacks to my left. Far enough away for privacy, but close enough to remain nearby should Elain need anything. Do anything. Something in my chest cracked as Nesta's eyes also went to the windows before Elain. To check, as I did, for whether they could be easily opened. Mercifully, they were permanently sealed, likely to protect against some careless fool forgetting to close them and ruining the books. Likely Cassian. Nesta wordlessly set down her book and followed me into the small labyrinth of stacks, both of us keeping an ear on the main sitting area. When we were far enough away, I threw up a shield of hard wind around us. Keeping any sound inside. "How did you get her to leave her room?" "I didn't," Nesta said, leaning against a shelf and crossing her slim arms. "I found her in here. She wasn't in bed when I awoke." Nesta must have panicked upon finding her room empty --Did she eat anything?" "No. I managed to get her to drink some broth last night. She refused anything else. She's been talking in those half riddles all day." I dragged a hand through my hair, freeing strands from my braid. "Did anything happen to trigger--" "I don't know. I check on her every few hours." Nesta clenched her jaw. "I was gone for longer yesterday, though." While she trained with Amren. Rhys had informed me that by the end of it, Nesta's rudimentary shields were solid enough that Amren deemed my sister ready for tonight. But there, beneath that cool demeanor--guilt. Panic. "I doubt anything happened," I said quickly. "Maybe it's just ... part of the recovery process. Her adjustment to being Fae." Nesta didn't look convinced. "Does she have powers? Like mine." And what, exactly, are those powers, Nesta? "I--don't know. I don't think so. Unless this is the first sign of something manifesting." It was an effort not to add, If you'd talk about what went on in the Cauldron, perhaps we'd have a better understanding of it. "Let's give her a day or two--see what happens. If she improves." "Why not see now?" "Because we're going to the Hewn City in a few hours. And you don't seem inclined to want us shoving into your business," I told her as evenly as I could. "I doubt Elain does, too." Nesta stared me down, not a flicker of emotion on her face, and gave a curt nod. "Well, at least she left the room." "And the chair." We exchanged a rare, calm glance. But then I said, "Why won't you train with Cassian?" Nesta's spine locked up. "Why is it only Cassian that I may train with? Why not the other one?" "Azriel?" "Him, or the blond one who won't shut up." "If you're referring to Mor--" "And why must I train at all? I am no warrior, nor do I desire to be." "It could make you strong--" "There are many types of strength beyond the ability to wield a blade and end lives. Amren told me that yesterday." "You said you wanted our enemies dead. Why not kill them yourself?" She inspected her nails. "Why bother when someone else can do it for me?" I avoided the urge to rub my temples. "We're--" But the doors to the library opened, and I snapped my barrier of hard air down entirely at the thud of stalking footsteps, then their sudden halting. I gripped Nesta's arm to keep her still just as Lucien's voice blurted, "You--you left your room." Nesta bristled, teeth flashing. I gripped her harder, and threw a new wall of air around us--holding her there. Weeks of cloistering Elain had done nothing to improve her state. Perhaps the half riddles were proof of that. And even if Lucien was currently breaking the rules we had set-- More steps--no doubt closer to where Elain stood at the window. "Is ... is there anything I can get for you?" I'd never heard my friend's voice so soft. So tentative and concerned. Perhaps it made me the lowest sort of wretch, but I cast my mind toward them. Toward him. And then I was in his body, his head. Too thin. She must not be eating at all. How can she even stand? The thoughts flowed through his head, one after another. His heart was a raging, thunderous beat, and he didn't dare move from his position a mere five feet away. She hadn't yet turned toward him, but the ravages of her fasting were evident enough. Touch her, smell her, taste her-- The instincts were a running river. He fisted his hands at his sides. He hadn't expected her to be here. The other sister--the viper--was a possibility, but one he was willing to risk. Aside from talking to the shadowsinger yesterday--which had been just about as unnerving as he'd expected, though Azriel seemed like a decent enough male--he'd been cooped up in this wind-blasted House for two days. The thought of another one had been enough to make him risk Rhysand s wrath. He just wanted a walk--and a few books. It had been an age since he'd even had free time to read, let alone do so for pleasure. But there she was. His mate. She was nothing like Jesminda. Jesminda had been all laughter and mischief, too wild and free to be contained by the country life that she'd been born into. She had teased him, taunted him--seduced him so thoroughly that he hadn't wanted anything but her. She'd seen him not as a High Lords seventh son, but as a male. Had loved him without question, without hesitation. She had chosen him. Elain had been ... thrown at him. He glanced toward the tea service spread on a low-lying table nearby. "I'm going to assume that one of those cups belongs to your sister." Indeed, there was a discarded book in the viper s usual chair. Cauldron help the male who wound up shackled to her. "Do you mind if I help myself to the other?" He tried to sound casual--comfortable. Even as his heart raced and raced, so swift he thought he might vomit on the very expensive, very old carpet. From Sangravah, if the patterns and rich dyes were any indication. Rhysand was many things, but he certainly had good taste. This entire place had been decorated with thought and elegance, with a penchant for comfort over stuffiness. He didn't want to admit he liked it. Didn't want to admit that he found the city beautiful. That the circle of people who now claimed to be Feyre's new family ... It was what, long ago, he'd once thought life at Tamlin s court would be. An ache like a blow to the chest went through him, but he crossed the rug. Forced his hands to be steady while he poured himself a cup of tea and sat in the chair opposite Nestas vacated one. "There's a plate of biscuits. Would you like one?" He didn't expect her to answer, and he gave himself all of one more minute before he'd rise from this chair and leave, hopefully avoiding Nesta's return. But sunlight on gold caught his eye--and Elain slowly turned from her vigil at the window. He had not seen her entire face since that day in Hybern. Then, it had been drawn and terrified, then utterly blank and numb, her hair plastered to her head, her lips blue with cold and shock. Looking at her now ... She was pale, yes. The vacancy still glazing her features. But he couldn't breathe as she faced him fully. She was the most beautiful female he'd ever seen. Betrayal, queasy and oily, slid through his veins. He'd said the same to Jesminda once. But even as shame washed through him, the words, the sense chanted, Mine. You are mine, and I am yours. Mate. Her eyes were the brown of a fawns coat. And he could have sworn something sparked in them as she met his gaze. "Who are you?" He knew without demanding clarification that she was aware of what he was to her. "I am Lucien. Seventh son of the High Lord of the Autumn Court." And a whole lot of nothing. He'd told the shadowsinger all he knew--of his surviving brothers, of his father. His mother ... he'd kept some details, irrelevant and utterly personal, to himself. Everything else--his fathers closest allies, the most conniving courtiers and lords ... He'd handed it over. Granted, it was dated by a few centuries, but in his time as emissary, from the information he'd gathered, not much had changed. They'd all acted the same Under the Mountain, anyway. And after what had happened with his brothers a few days ago ... There was no tinge of guilt when he told Azriel what he knew. None of what he felt when he looked toward the south--toward both of the courts he'd called home. For a long moment, Elain s face did not shift, but those eyes seemed to focus a bit more. "Lucien," she said at last, and he clenched his teacup to keep from shuddering at the sound of his name on her mouth. "From my sister's stories. Her friend." "Yes." But Elain blinked slowly. "You were in Hybern.' "Yes." It was all he could say. "You betrayed us.' He wished she'd shoved him out the window behind her. "It --it was a mistake.' Her eyes went frank and cold. "I was to be married in a few days." He fought against the bristling rage, the irrational urge to find the male who'd claimed her and shred him apart. The words were a rasp as he instead said, "I know. I'm sorry." She did not love him, want him, need him. Another male's bride. A mortal mans wife. Or she would have been. She looked away--toward the windows. "I can hear your heart," she said quietly. He wasn't sure how to respond, so he said nothing, and drained his tea, even as it burned his mouth. "When I sleep," she murmured, "I can hear your heart beating through the stone." She angled her head, as if the city view held some answer. "Can you hear mine?" He wasn't sure if she truly meant to address him, but he said, "No, lady. I cannot." Her too-thin shoulders seemed to curve inward. "No one ever does. No one ever looked--not really." A bramble of words. Her voice strained to a whisper. "He did. He saw me. He will not now.' Her thumb brushed the iron ring on her finger. Another male's ring, another marker that she was claimed It was enough. I had listened enough, learned enough. I pulled out of Lucien's mind. Nesta was gaping at me, even as her face had leeched of color at every word uttered between them. "Have you ever gone into my--" "No," I rasped. How she knew what I had done, I didn't want to ask. Not as I dropped the shield around us and headed for the sitting area. Lucien, no doubt having heard our steps, was flushed as he glanced between me and Nesta. No inkling whatsoever that I'd slid into his mind. Rifled through it like a bandit in the night. I shoved down the mild nausea. My eldest sister merely said to him, "Get out." I flashed Nesta a glare, but Lucien rose. "I came for a book." "Well, find one and leave." Elain only stared out the window, unaware--or uncaring. Lucien didn't head for the stacks. He just went to the open doors. He paused right between them and said to me, to Nesta, "She needs fresh air." "We'll judge what she needs." I could have sworn his ruby hair gleamed like molten metal as his temper rose. But it faded, his russet eye fixing on me. "Take her to the sea. Take her to some garden. But get her out of this house for an hour or two." Then he walked away. I looked at my two sisters. Cloistered up here, high above the world. "You're moving into the town house right now," I said to them. To Lucien, who paused in the dim hallway outside. Nesta, to my shock, did not object. Neither did Rhys when I sent my order down the bond, asking him, Cassian, and Azriel to help move them. No, my mate just promised to assign two bedrooms to my sisters down the hall, on the other side of the stairs. And a third for Lucien--on our side of the hall. Well away from Elain's. Thirty minutes later, Azriel carried Elain down, my sister silent and unresponsive in his arms. Nesta had looked ready to walk off the balcony rather than let Cassian, already dressed and armed for guarding the town house tonight, hold her, so I nudged her toward Rhys, pushed Lucien toward Cassian, and flew myself back. Or tried to--again. I soared for about half a minute, savoring the cleansing scream of the wind, before my wings wobbled, my back strained, and the fall became unbearably deadly. I winnowed the rest of the way to the town house, and adjusted vases and figurines in the sitting room while waiting for them. Azriel arrived first, no shadows to be seen, my sister a pale, golden mass in his arms. He, too, wore his Illyrian armor, Elain's golden-brown hair snagging in some of the black scales across his chest and shoulders. He set her down gently on the foyer carpet, having carried her in through the front door. Elain peered up at his patient, solemn face. Azriel smiled faintly. "Would you like me to show you the garden?" She seemed so small before him, so fragile compared to the scales of his fighting leathers, the breadth of his shoulders. The wings peeking over them. But Elain did not balk from him, did not shy away as she nodded--just once. Azriel, graceful as any courtier, offered her an arm. I couldn't tell if she was looking at his blue Siphon or at his scarred skin beneath as she breathed, "Beautiful." Color bloomed high on Azriel's golden-brown cheeks, but he inclined his head in thanks and led my sister toward the back doors into the garden, sunlight bathing them. A moment later, Nesta was stomping through the front door, her face a remarkable shade of green. "I need--a toilet." I met Rhys's stare as he prowled in behind her, hands in his pockets. What did you do? His brows shot up. But I wordlessly pointed Nesta toward the powder room beneath the stairs, and she vanished, slamming the door behind her. Me? Rhys leaned against the bottom post of the banister. She complained that I was flying deliberately slow. So I went fast. Cassian and Lucien appeared, neither looking at the other. But Lucien's attention went right to the hallway toward the back, his nostrils flaring as he scented Elain's direction. And who she'd gone with. A low snarl slipped out of him-- "Relax," Rhys said. "Azriel isn't the ravishing type." Lucien cut him a glare. Mercifully, or perhaps not, Nesta's retching filled the silence. Cassian gaped at Rhys. "What did you do?" "I asked him the same thing," I said, crossing my arms. "He said he 'went fast.' " Nesta vomited again--then silence. Cassian sighed at the ceiling. "She'll never fly again." The doorknob twisted, and we tried--or at least Cassian and I did--not to seem like we'd been listening to her. Nesta's face was still greenish-pale, but ... Her eyes burned. There was no way of describing that burning--and even painting it might have failed. Her eyes remained the same blue-gray as my own. And yet ... Molten ore was all I could think of. Quicksilver set aflame. She advanced a step toward us. All her attention fixed on Rhys. Cassian casually stepped in her path, wings folded in tight. Feet braced apart on the carpet. A fighting stance--casual, but ... his Siphons glimmered. "Do you know," Cassian drawled to her, "that the last time I got into a brawl in this house, I was kicked out for a month?" Nesta's burning gaze slid to him, still outraged--but hinted with incredulity. He just went on, "It was Amren's fault, of course, but no one believed me. And no one dared banish her." She blinked slowly. But the burning, molten gaze became mortal. Or as mortal as one of us could be. Until Lucien breathed, "What are you?" Cassian didn't seem to dare take his focus off Nesta. But my sister slowly looked at Lucien. "I made it give something back," she said with terrifying quiet. The Cauldron. The hairs along my arms rose. Nesta's gaze flicked to the carpet, then to a spot on the wall. "I wish to go to my room." It took a moment to realize she'd spoken to me. I cleared my throat. "Up the stairs, on your right. Second door. Or the third--whichever suits you. The other is for Elain. We need to leave in ..." I squinted at the clock in the sitting room. "Two hours." A shallow nod was her only acknowledgment and thanks. We watched as she headed up the steps, her lavender gown trailing after her, one slender hand braced on the rail. "I'm sorry," Rhys called up after her. Her hand tightened on the rail, the whites of her knuckles poking through her pale skin, but she didn't say anything as she continued on. "Is that sort of thing even possible?" Cassian murmured when the door to her room had shut. "For someone to take from the Cauldron's essence?" "It would seem so," Rhys mused, then said to Lucien, "The flame in her eyes was not of your usual sort, I take it." Lucien shook his head. "No. It spoke to nothing in my own arsenal. That was ... Ice so cold it burned. Ice and yet ... fluid like flame. Or flame made of ice." "I think it's death," I said quietly. I held Rhys's gaze, as if it were again the tether that had kept me in this world. "I think the power is death--death made flesh. Or whatever power the Cauldron holds over such things. That's why the Carver heard it--heard about her." "Mother above," Lucien said, dragging a hand through his hair. Cassian gave him a solemn nod. But Rhys rubbed his jaw, weighing, thinking. Then he said simply, "Only Nesta would not just conquer Death--but pillage it." No wonder she didn't wish to speak to anyone about it-- didn't wish to bear witness on our behalf. It had been mere seconds for us while she'd gone under. I had never asked either of my sisters how long it had been for them inside that Cauldron. "Azriel knows you're watching," Rhys drawled from where he stood before the mirror in our bedroom, adjusting the lapels of his black jacket. The town house was a quiet flurry of activity as we prepared to leave. Mor and Amren had arrived half an hour ago, the former heading for the sitting room, the latter bearing a dress for my sister. I didn't dare ask Amren to see what she'd selected for Nesta. Training, Amren had said days ago. There were magical objects in the Court of Nightmares that my sister could study tonight, while we were occupied with Keir. I wondered if the Ouroboros was one of them--and made a note to ask Amren what she knew of the mirror the Carver so badly desired. Which I'd somehow have to convince Keir to part with tonight. Lucien had offered to make himself useful while we were gone by reading through some of the texts now piled on the tables throughout the sitting room. Amren had only grunted at the offer, which I told Lucien amounted to a yes. Cassian was already on the roof, casually sharpening his blades. l'd asked him if nine swords were really necessary, and he merely told me that it didn't hurt to be prepared, and that if I had enough time to question him, then I should have enough time to do another workout. I'd quickly left, throwing a vulgar gesture his way. My hair still damp from the bath I'd just taken, I slid my heavy earrings through my lobes and peered out our bedroom window, monitoring the garden below. Elain sat silently at one of the wrought-iron tables, a cup of tea before her. Azriel was sprawled on the chaise longue across the gray stones, sunning his wings and reading what looked to be a stack of reports--likely information on the Autumn Court that he planned to present to Rhys once he'd sorted through it all. Already dressed for the Hewn City--the brutal, beautiful armor so at odds with the lovely garden. And my sister sitting within it. "Why not make them mates?" I mused. "Why Lucien?" "I'd keep that question from Lucien." "I'm serious." I turned toward him and crossed my arms. "What decides it? Who decides it?" Rhys straightened his lapels before plucking an invisible piece of lint from them. "Fate, the Mother, the Cauldron's swirling eddies ..." "Rhys." He watched me in the reflection of the mirror as I strode for my armoire, flinging open the doors to yank out the dress I'd selected. Scraps of shimmering black--a slightly more modest version of what I'd worn to the Court of Nightmares months ago. "You said your mother and father were wrong for each other; Tamlin said his own parents were wrong for each other." I peeled off my dressing robe. "So it can't be a perfect system of matching. What if'--I jerked my chin toward the window, to my sister and the shadowsinger in the garden--"that is what she needs? Is there no free will? What if Lucien wishes the union but she doesn't?" "A mating bond can be rejected," Rhys said mildly, eyes flickering in the mirror as he drank in every inch of bare skin I had on display. "There is choice. And sometimes, yes--the bond picks poorly. Sometimes, the bond is nothing more than some ... preordained guesswork at who will provide the strongest offspring. At its basest level, it's perhaps only that. Some natural function, not an indication of true, paired souls." A smile at me--at the rareness, perhaps, of what we had. "Even so," Rhys went on, "there will always be a ... tug. For the females, it is usually easier to ignore, but the males ... It can drive them mad. It is their burden to fight through, but some believe they are entitled to the female. Even after the bond is rejected, they see her as belonging to them. Sometimes they return to challenge the male she chooses for herself. Sometimes it ends in death. It is savage, and it is ugly, and it mercifully does not happen often, but ... Many mated pairs will try to make it work, believing the Cauldron selected them for a reason. Only years later will they realize that perhaps the pairing was not ideal in spirit." I scrounged up the jeweled, dark belt from an armoire drawer and slung it low over my hips. "So you're saying she could walk away--and Lucien would have free rein to kill whoever she wishes to be with." Rhys turned from the mirror at last, his dark clothes pristine --cut perfectly to his body. No wings tonight. "Not free rein-- not in my lands. It has been illegal in our territory for a long, long time for males to do that. Even before I was born. Other courts, no. On the continent, there are territories that believe the females literally belong to their mate. But not here. Elain would have our full protection if she rejects the bond. But it will still be a bond, however weakened, that will trail her for the rest of her existence." "Do you think she and Lucien match well?" I pulled out a pair of sandals that laced up my bare thighs and jammed my feet into them before beginning work on the bindings. "You know them better than I do. But I will say that Lucien is loyal--fiercely so." "So is Azriel." "Azriel," Rhys said, "has been preoccupied with the same female for the past five hundred years." "Wouldn't the mating bond have snapped into place for them if it exists?" Rhys's eyes shuttered. "I think that is a question Azriel has been asking himself every day since he met Mor." He sighed as I finished one foot and started on the other. "Am I allowed to request that you not play matchmaker? Let them sort it out." I rose, bracing my hands on my hips. "I would never meddle in someone else's affairs!" He only raised a brow in silent challenge. And I knew precisely what he referred to. My gut tightened as I took a seat at the vanity and began braiding my hair into a coronet atop my head. Perhaps I was a coward, for not being able to ask it aloud, but I said down the bond, Was it a violation--going into Lucien s mind like that? I can't answer that for you. Rhys came over and handed me a hairpin. I slid it into a section of braid. I needed to be sure--that he wasn't about to try to grab her, to sell us out. He handed me another. And did you get an answer to that? We worked in unison, pinning my hair into place. I think so. It wasn't just about what he thought--it was the ... feeling. I sensed no ill will, no conniving. Only concern for her. And ... sorrow. Longing. I shook my head. Do I tell him? What I did? Rhys pinned a hard-to-reach section of my hair. You have to deem whether the cost is worth assuaging your guilt. The cost being Lucien's tentative trust in me, this place. I crossed a line. But you did it to ensure the safety of people you love. I didn't realize ... I trailed off, shaking my head again. He squeezed my shoulder. Didn't realize what? I shrugged, slouching on the cushioned stool. That it'd be so complicated. My face warmed. I know that sounds terribly naive-- It's always complicated, and it never gets easier, no matter how many centuries I've been doing it. I pushed around the extra hairpins on the vanity. Its the second time I've gone into his mind. Then say it's the last, and be done with it. I blinked, lifting my head. I'd painted my lips in a shade of red so dark it was nearly black, and they now pressed into a thin line. He clarified, What's done is done. Agonizing over it wont change anything. You realized it was a line you didn't like crossing, and so you won't make that mistake again. I shifted in my seat. Would you have done it? Rhys considered. Yes. And I would have felt just as guilty afterward. Hearing that settled something, deep down. I nodded once --twice. If you want to make yourself feel a little better, he added, Lucien did technically violate the rules we set. So you were entitled to look into his mind, if only to ensure the safety of your sister. He crossed the line first. That thing deep in me eased a bit more. You're right. And it was done. I watched Rhys in the mirror as a dark crown appeared in his hands. The one of ravens' feathers that I'd seen him wear --or its feminine twin. A tiara--which he gently, reverently, set before the braid we'd pinned into place atop my head. The original crown ... it appeared atop Rhys's head a moment later. Together, we stared at our reflection. Lord and Lady Night. "Ready to be wicked?" he purred in my ear. My toes curled at the caress in that voice--at the memory of the last time we'd gone to the Court of Nightmares. How I'd sat in his lap--where his fingers had drifted. I rose from the bench, facing him fully. His hands skimmed the bare skin along my ribs. Between my breasts. Down the outside of my thighs. Oh, he remembered, too. "This time," I breathed, kissing the tendril of tattoo that peeked just above the collar of Rhys's black jacket, "I get to make Keir beg." <|title|>Chapter 25 <|startofchapter|>Amren hadn't dressed Nesta in cobwebs and stardust, as Mor and I were clothed. And she hadn't dressed Nesta in her own style of loose pants and a cropped blouse. She had kept it simple. Brutal. A dress of impenetrable black flowed to the dark marble floors of the throne room of the Hewn City, tight through the bodice and sleeves, its neckline skimming the base of her pale throat. Nesta's hair had been swept into a simple style to reveal the panes of her face, the savage clarity of her eyes as she took in the assembled crowd, the towering carved pillars and the scaled beasts twined around them, the mighty dais and the throne atop it ... and did not balk. Indeed, Nesta's chin only lifted with each step we took toward that dais. One throne, I realized--that mighty throne of those twined, scaly beasts. Rhys realized it, too. Planned for it. My sister and the others peeled away at the foot of the dais, taking flanking positions at its base. No fear, no joy, no light in their faces. Azriel, at Mor's side, looked murderously calm as he surveyed those gathered. As he beheld Keir, waiting beside a golden-haired woman who had to be Mor's mother, sneering at us. Promise them nothing, Mor had warned me. Rhys held out a hand for me to ascend the dais steps. I kept my head high, back straight, as I gripped his fingers and strode up the few stairs. Toward that solitary throne. Rhys only winked as he gracefully escorted me right into that throne, the movement as easy and smooth as a dance. The crowd murmured as I sat, the black stone bitingly cold against my bare thighs. They outright gasped as Rhys simply perched on the arm of the throne, smirked at me, and said to the Court of Nightmares, "Bow." For they had not. And with me seated on that throne ... Their faces were still a mixture of shock and disdain as they all dropped to their knees. I avoided looking at Nesta while she had no choice but to follow suit. But I made myself look at Keir, at the female beside him, at anyone who dared meet my gaze. Made myself remember what they had done to Mor, now bowing with a grin on her face, when she was barely more than a child. Some of the court averted their eyes. "I will interpret the lack of two thrones to be due to the fact that this visit came upon you quickly," Rhys said with lethal calm. "And I will let you all escape without having your skin flayed from your bones as my mating gift to you. Our loyal subjects," he added, smiling faintly. I traced a finger over the scaly coil of one of the beasts that made up the arms of the throne. Our court. Part of it. And we needed them to fight with us. To agree to it-- tonight. The mouth I'd painted that dark, dark red parted into a lazy smile. Tendrils of power snaked toward the dais, but didn't dare venture past the first step. Testing me--what power I might have. But not getting close enough to offend Rhysand. I let them creep closer, sniffing around, as I said to Rhys, to now. Rhys smiled down at me, then at the crowd. "Rise." They did. And some of those tendrils of power dared climb up the first step. I pounced. Three gasps choked through the murmuring room as I slammed talon-sharp magic down upon those too-curious powers. Dug in deep and hard. A cat with a bird under its paw. Several of them. "Do you wish to have this back?" I asked quietly to no one in particular. Near the foot of the dais, Keir was scowling over a shoulder, his silver circlet glinting atop his golden hair. Someone whimpered in the back of the room. "Don't you know," Rhys purred to the crowd, "that it's not polite to touch a lady without her permission?" In answer, I sank those dark talons in further, the magic of whoever had dared try to test me thrashing and buckling. "Play nice," I crooned to the crowd. And let go. Three separate flurries of motion warred for my attention. Someone had winnowed outright, fleeing. Another had fainted. And a third was clinging to whoever stood beside them, trembling. I marked all their faces. Amren and Nesta approached the foot of the dais. My sister was staring as if she'd never seen me before. I didn't dare break my mask of bemused coolness. Didn't dare ask if Nesta's shields were holding up--if someone had just tried to test her as well. Nesta's own imperious face yielded nothing. Amren bowed her head to Rhys, to me. "By your leave, High Lord." Rhys waved an idle hand. "Go. Enjoy yourselves." He jerked his chin to the watching crowd. "Food and music. Now." He was obeyed. Instantly. My sister and Amren vanished before the crowd could begin milling about, striding right through those towering doors and into the gloom. To go play with some of the magical trove kept here--to give Nesta some practice for whenever Amren figured out how to fix the wall. A few heads turned in their direction--then quickly looked away as Amren noticed them. Let some of the monster inside show. We still had not told her of the Bone Carver--of the Prison visit. Something a bit like guilt coiled in my stomach. Though I supposed I had to get used to it as Rhys curled a finger toward Keir and said, "The council room. Ten minutes." Keir's eyes narrowed at the order, the female beside him keeping her head down--the portrait of subservience. What Mor was supposed to have been. My friend was indeed watching her parents, cold indifference on her face. Azriel kept a step away, monitoring everything. I didn't let myself look too interested--too worried--as Rhys offered me a hand and we rose from the throne. And went to talk of war. The council chamber of the Hewn City was nearly as large as the throne room. It was carved from the same dark rock, its pillars fashioned after those entangled beasts. Far below the high, domed ceiling, a mammoth table of black glass split the room in two like a lightning strike, its corners left long and jagged. Sharp as a razor. Rhys claimed a seat at the head of the table. I took the one at the opposite end. Azriel and Mor found seats on one side, and Keir settled into the seat on the other. A chair beside him sat empty. Rhys leaned back in his dark chair, swirling the wine that had been poured by a stone-faced servant a moment before. It had been an effort not to thank the male who'd filled my goblet. But here, I did not thank anyone. Here, I took what was mine, and offered no gratitude or apologies for it. "I know why you're here," Keir said without any sort of preamble. "Oh?" Rhys's eyebrow arched beautifully. Keir surveyed us, distaste lingering on his handsome face. "Hybern is swarming. Your legions'--a sneer at Azriel, at the Illyrians he represented--"are gathering." Keir interlaced his long fingers and set them upon the dark glass. "You mean to ask for my Darkbringers to join your army." Rhys sipped from his wine. "Well, at least you've spared me the effort of dancing around the subject." Keir held his gaze without blinking. "I will confess that I find myself ... sympathetic to Hybern's cause." Mor shifted slightly in her seat. Azriel just pinned that icy, all-seeing stare on Keir. "You would not be the only one," Rhys countered coolly. Keir frowned up at the obsidian chandelier, fashioned after a wreath of night-blooming flowers--the center of each a twinkling silver faelight. "There are many similarities between Hybern's people and my own. Both of us trapped--stagnant." "Last I checked," Mor cut in, "you have been free to do as you wish for centuries. Longer." Keir didn't so much as look at her, earning a flicker of rage from Azriel at the dismissal. "Ah, but are we free here? Not even the entirety of this mountain belongs to us--not with your palace atop it." "All of this belongs to me, I'll remind you," Rhys said wryly. "It's that mentality that allows me to find Hybern's stifled people to be ... kindred spirits." "You want the palace upstairs, Keir, then it's yours." Rhys crossed his legs. "I didn't know you were lusting after it for so long." Keir's answering smile was near-serpentine. "You must need my army rather desperately, Rhysand." Again, that hateful glance at Azriel. "Are the overgrown bats not up to snuff anymore?" "Come train with them," Azriel said softly, "and you'll learn for yourself." In his centuries of miserable existence, Keir had certainly mastered the art of sneering. And the way he sneered at Azriel ... Mor's teeth flashed in the dim light. It was an effort to keep myself from doing the same. "I have no doubt," Rhys said, the portrait of glorious boredom, "that you've already decided upon your asking price." Keir peered down the table--to me. Looked his fill as I held his stare. "I did." My stomach turned at that gaze, the words. Dark power rumbled through the chamber, setting the onyx chandelier tinkling. "Tread carefully, Keir." Keir only smiled at me, then at Rhys. Mor had gone utterly still. "What would you give me for a shot at this war, Rhysand? You whored yourself to Amarantha--but what about your mate?" He had not forgotten how we'd treated him. How we'd humiliated him months ago. And Rhys ... there was only eternal, unforgiving death in his face, in the darkness gathering behind his chair. "The bargain our ancestors struck grants you the right to choose how and when your army assists my own. But it does not grant you the right to keep your life, Keir, when I grow tired of your existence." As if in answer, invisible claws gouged deep marks in the table, the glass shrieking. I flinched. Keir blanched at the lines now inches from him. "But I thought you might be ... hesitant to assist me," Rhys went on. I'd never seen him so calm. Not calm--but filled with icy rage. The sort I sometimes glimpsed in Azriel's eyes. Rhys snapped his fingers and said to no one in particular, "Bring him in." The doors opened on a phantom wind. I didn't know where to look as a servant escorted in the tall male figure. At Mor, whose face went white with dread. At Azriel, who reached for his dagger--Truth-Teller--his every breath alert, focused, but unsurprised. Not a hint of shock. Or at Eris, heir to the Autumn Court, as he strolled into the room. <|title|>Chapter 26 <|startofchapter|>That's who the final, empty seat was for. And Rhys ... He remained sprawled in his chair, sipping from his wine. "Welcome back, Eris," he drawled. "It's been what--five centuries since you last set foot in here?" Mor slid her eyes toward Rhys. Betrayal and--hurt. That was hurt flashing there. For not warning us. For this ... surprise. I wondered if I schooled my features with any more success than my friend as Eris claimed the vacant seat at the table, not bothering to so much as nod to a wary-eyed Keir. "It has indeed been a while." He'd healed since that day on the ice--not a sign of the gut- wound Cassian had given him. His red hair was unbound, a silken drape over his well-tailored cobalt jacket. What is he doing here, I speared down the bond, not bothering to hide any of what coursed through me. Making sure Keir agrees to help, was all Rhys said, the words tight and clipped. Restrained. As if he were still holding the full might of his rage in check. Shadows curled around Azriel's shoulders, whispering in his ear as he stared down Eris. "You once wanted to build ties to Autumn, Keir," said Rhys, setting down his goblet of wine. "Well, here's your chance. Eris is willing to offer you a formal alliance--in exchange for your services in this war." How the hell did you get him to agree to that? Rhys didn't answer. Rhysand. Keir leaned back in his chair. "It is not enough." Eris snorted, pouring himself a goblet of wine from the decanter in the center of the table. "I'd forgotten why I was so relieved when our bargain fell apart the last time." Rhys shot him a warning look. Eris just drank deeply. "What is it that you want, then, Keir?" Rhys purred. I had the feeling if Keir suggested me again, he'd wind up splattered on the wall. But Keir must have known, too. And said simply to Rhysand, "I want out. I want space. I want my people to be free of this mountain." "You have every comfort," I finally said. "And yet it is not enough?" Keir ignored me as well. As I'm sure he ignored most women in his life. "You have been keeping secrets, High Lord," Keir said with a hateful smile, interlacing his hands and resting them on the mauled table. Right atop the nearest deep gouge. "I always wondered--where all of you went when you weren't here. Hybern answered the question at last--thanks to that attack on. what is its name? Velaris. Yes. On Velaris. The City of Starlight." Mor went utterly still. "I want access to the city," Keir said. "For me, and my court." "No," Mor said. The word echoed off the pillars, the glass, the rock. I was inclined to agree. The thought of these people, of Keir, in Velaris ... Tainting it with their presence, their hatred and small-mindedness, their disdain and cruelty ... Rhys did not refuse. Did not shoot down the suggestion. You can't be serious. Rhys only watched Keir as he answered down the bond, I anticipated this--and I took precautions. I contemplated it. The meeting with the Palace governors .. That was tied to this? Yes. Rhysand said to Keir, "There would be conditions." Mor opened her mouth, but Azriel laid a scarred hand atop hers. She snatched her hand back as if she'd been burned-- burned as he had been. Azriel's mask of cold didn't so much as waver at the rejection. Though Eris chuckled softly. Enough to make Azriel's hazel eyes glaze with rage as he settled them upon the High Lord's son. Eris only inclined his head to the shadowsinger. "I want unrestricted access," Keir said to Rhys. "You will not get it," Rhys said. "There will be limited stays, limited numbers allowed in. To be decided later." Mor turned pleading eyes to Rhys. Her city--the place that she loved so much-- I could almost hear it. The crack I knew was about to sound amongst our own circle. Keir looked to Mor at last--noted the despair and anger. And smiled. He had no real desire to get out of here. Only a desire to take something he'd undoubtedly gleaned that his daughter cherished. I could have gladly shredded through his throat as Keir said, "Done." Rhys didn't so much as smile. Mor was only staring and staring at him, that beseeching expression crumpling her face. "There is one more thing," I added, squaring my shoulders. "One more request." Keir deigned to acknowledge me. "Oh?" "I have need of the Ouroboros mirror," I said, willing ice into my veins. "Immediately." Interest and surprise flared in Keir's brown eyes. Mor's eyes. "Who told you that I have it?" he asked quietly. "Does it matter? I want it." "Do you even know what the Ouroboros is?" "Consider your tone, Keir," Rhys warned. Keir leaned forward, bracing his forearms on the table. "The mirror ..." He laughed under his breath. "Consider it my mating present." He added with sweet venom, "If you can take it." Not a threat to face him, but-- "What do you mean?" Keir rose to his feet, smirking like a cat with a canary in its mouth. "To take the Ouroboros, to claim it, you must first look into it." He headed for the doors, not waiting to be dismissed. "And everyone who has attempted to do so has either gone mad or been broken beyond repair. Even a High Lord or two, if legend is true." A shrug. "So it is yours, if you dare to face it." Keir paused at the threshold as the doors opened on a phantom wind. He said to Rhys, perhaps the closest he'd come to asking for permission to leave, "Lord Thanatos is having ... difficulties with his daughter again. He requires my assistance." Rhys only waved a hand, as if he hadn't just yielded our city to the male. Keir jerked his chin at Eris. "I will wish to speak with you--soon." Once he was done gloating over his victory tonight. What we'd given. And lost. If the Ouroboros could not be retrieved, at least without such terrible risk ... I shut out the thought, sealing it away for later, as Keir left. Leaving us alone with Eris. The heir of Autumn just sipped his wine. And I had the terrible sense that Mor had gone somewhere far, far away as Eris set down his goblet and said, "You look well, Mor." "You don't speak to her," Azriel said softly. Eris gave a bitter smile. "I see you're still holding a grudge." "This arrangement, Eris," Rhys said, "relies solely upon you keeping your mouth shut." Eris huffed a laugh. "And haven't I done an excellent job? Not even my father suspected when I left tonight." I glanced between my mate and Eris. "How did this come about?" Eris looked me over. The crown and dress. "You didn't think that I knew your shadowsinger would come sniffing around to see if I'd told my father about your ... powers? Especially after my brothers so mysteriously forgot about them, too. I knew it was a matter of time before one of you arrived to take care of my memory as well." Eris tapped the side of his head with a long finger. "Too bad for you, I learned a thing or two about daemati. Too bad for my brothers that I never bothered to teach them." My chest tightened. Rhys. To keep me safe from Beron's wrath, to keep this potential alliance with the High Lords from falling apart before it began ... Rhys. It was an effort to keep my eyes from burning. A gentle caress down the bond was his only answer. "Of course I didn't tell my father," Eris went on, drinking from his wine again. "Why waste that sort of information on the bastard? His answer would be to hunt you down and kill you--not realizing how much shit we're in with Hybern and that you might be the key to stopping it." "So he plans to join us, then," Rhys said. "Not if he learns about your little secret." Eris smirked. Mor blinked--as if realizing that Rhys's contact with Eris, his invitation here ... The glance she gave me, clear and settled, told me enough. Hurt and anger still swirled, but understanding, too. "So what's the asking price, Eris?" Mor demanded, leaning her bare arms on the dark glass. "Another little bride for you to torture?" Something flickered in Eris's eyes. "I don't know who fed you those lies to begin with, Morrigan," he said with vicious calm. "Likely the bastards you surround yourself with." A sneer at Azriel. Mor snarled, rattling the glasses. "You never gave any evidence to the contrary. Certainly not when you left me in those woods." "There were forces at work that you have never considered," Eris said coldly. "And I am not going to waste my breath explaining them to you. Believe what you want about me." "You hunted me down like an animal," I cut in. "I think we'll choose to believe the worst." Eris's pale face flushed. "I was given an order. And sent to do it with two of my ... brothers." "And what of the brother you hunted down alongside me? The one whose lover you helped to execute before his eyes?" Eris laid a hand flat on the table. "You know nothing about what happened that day. Nothing." Silence. "Indulge me," was all I said. Eris stared me down. I stared right back. "How do you think he made it to the Spring border," he said quietly. "I wasn't there--when they did it. Ask him. I refused. It was the first and only time I have denied my father anything. He punished me. And by the time I got free ... They were going to kill him, too. I made sure they didn't. Made sure Tamlin got word--anonymously--to get the hell over to his own border." Where two of Eris's brothers had been killed. By Lucien and Tamlin. Eris picked at a stray thread on his jacket. "Not all of us were so lucky in our friends and family as you, Rhysand." Rhys's face was a mask of boredom. "It would seem so." And none of this entirely erased what he'd done, but ... "What is the asking price," I repeated. "The same thing I told Azriel when I found him snooping through my father's woods yesterday." Hurt flared in Mor's eyes as she whipped her head toward the shadowsinger. But Azriel didn't so much as acknowledge her as he announced, "When the time comes ... we are to support Eris's bid to take the throne." Even as Azriel spoke, that frozen rage dulled his face. And Eris was wise enough to finally pale at the sight. Perhaps that was why Eris had kept knowledge of my powers to himself. Not just for this sort of bargaining, but to avoid the wrath of the shadowsinger. The blade at his side. "The request still stands, Rhysand," Eris said, mastering himself, "to just kill my father and be done with it. I can pledge troops right now." Mother above. He didn't even try to hide it--to look at all remorseful. It was an effort to keep my jaw from dropping to the table at his intent, the casualness with which he spoke it. "Tempting, but too messy," Rhys replied. "Beron sided with us in the War. Hopefully he'll sway that way again." A pointed stare at Eris. "He will," Eris promised, running a finger over one of the claw marks gouged into the table. "And will remain blissfully unaware of Feyre's ... gifts." A throne--in exchange for his silence. And sway. "Promise Keir nothing you care about," Rhys said, waving a hand in dismissal. Eris just rose to his feet. "We'll see." A frown at Mor as he drained his wine and set down the goblet. "I'm surprised you still can't control yourself around him. You had every emotion written right on that pretty face of yours." "Watch it," Azriel warned. Eris looked between them, smiling faintly. Secretly. As if he knew something that Azriel didn't. "I wouldn't have touched you," he said to Mor, who blanched again. "But when you fucked that other bastard--" A snarl ripped from Rhys's throat at that. And my own. "I knew why you did it." Again that secret smile that had Mor shrinking. Shrinking. "So I gave you your freedom, ending the betrothal in no uncertain terms." "And what happened next," Azriel growled. A shadow crossed Eris's face. "There are few things I regret. That is one of them. But ... perhaps one day, now that we are allies, I shall tell you why. What it cost me." "I don't give a shit," Mor said quietly. She pointed to the door. "Get out." Eris gave a mocking bow to her. To all of us. "See you at the meeting in twelve days." <|title|>Chapter 27 <|startofchapter|>We found Nesta and Amren waiting outside the throne room, both of them looking pissy and tired. Well, that made six of us. I didn't doubt Keir's claim about the mirror--and risking gazing into it ... None of us could afford it. To be broken. Driven mad. None of us--not right now. Perhaps the Bone Carver had known that. Had sent me on a fool's errand to amuse himself. We did not bother with good-byes to the whispering court as we winnowed to the town house. To Velaris--the peace and beauty that now felt infinitely more fragile. Cassian had come off the roof at some point to join Lucien in the sitting room, the books from the wall spread on the low- lying table between them. Both got to their feet at the expressions on our faces. Cassian was halfway to Mor when she whirled on Rhys and said, "Why?" Her voice broke. And something in my chest cracked, too, at the tears that began running down her face. Rhys just stood there, staring down at her. His face unreadable. Watching as she slammed her hands into his chest and shouted, "Why?" He yielded a step. "Eris found Azriel--our hands were tied. I made the best of it." His throat bobbed. "I'm sorry." Cassian was sizing them up, frozen halfway across the room. And I assumed Rhys was telling him mind to mind, assumed he was telling Amren and perhaps even Lucien and Nesta, from their surprised blinks. Mor whirled on Azriel. "Why didn't you say anything?" Azriel held her gaze unflinchingly. Didn't so much as rustle his wings. "Because you would have tried to stop it. And we can't afford to lose Keir's alliance--and face the threat of Eris." "You're working with that prick," Cassian cut in, whatever catching-up now over, apparently. He moved to Mor's side, a hand on her back. He shook his head at Azriel and Rhys, disgust curling his lip. "You should have spiked Eris's fucking head to the front gates." Azriel only watched them with that icy indifference. But Lucien crossed his arms, leaning against the back of the couch. "I have to agree with Cassian. Eris is a snake." Perhaps Rhys had not filled him in on everything, then. On what Eris had claimed about saving his youngest brother in whatever way he could. Of his defiance. "Your whole family is despicable," Amren said to Lucien from where she and Nesta lingered in the archway. "But Eris may prove a better alternative. If he can find a way to kill Beron off and make sure the power shifts to himself." "I'm sure he will," Lucien said. But Mor was still staring at Rhys, those silent tears streaming down her flushed cheeks. "It's not about Eris," she said, voice wobbling. "It's about here." She waved a hand to the town house, the city. "This is my home, and you are going to let Keir destroy it." "I took precautions," Rhys said--an edge to his voice I had not heard in some time. "Many of them. Starting with meeting with the governors of the Palaces and getting them to agree never to serve, shelter, or entertain Keir or anyone from the Court of Nightmares." Mor blinked. Cassian's hand moved to her shoulder and squeezed. "They have been sending out the word to every business owner in the city," Rhys went on, "every restaurant and shop and venue. So Keir and his ilk may come here ... But they will not find it a welcoming place. Or one where they can even procure lodgings." Mor shook her head as she whispered, "He'll still destroy it." Cassian slid his arm around her shoulders, his face harder than I'd ever seen it as he studied Rhys. Then Azriel. "You should have warned us." "I should have," Rhys said--though he didn't sound sorry for it. Azriel just remained a foot away, wings tucked in tight and Siphons glimmering. I stepped in at last. "We'll set limitations--on when and how often they come." Mor shook her head, still not looking anywhere but at Rhys. "If Amarantha were alive ..." The word slithered through the room, darkening the corners. "If she were alive and I offered to work with her--even if it was to save us all-- how would you feel?" Never--they had never come this close to discussing what had happened to him. I approached Rhys's side, brushing my fingers against his. His own curled around mine. "If Amarantha offered us a slim shot at survival," Rhys said, his gaze unflinching, "then I would not give a shit that she made me fuck her for all those years." Cassian flinched. The entire room flinched. "If Amarantha showed up at that door right now," Rhys snarled, pointing toward the foyer entry, "and said she could buy us a chance at defeating Hybern, at keeping all of you alive, I would thank the fucking Cauldron." Mor shook her head, tears slipping free again. "You don't mean that." "I do." Rhys. But the bond, the bridge between us ... it was a howling void. A raging, dark tempest. Too far--this was pushing them both too far. I tried to catch Cassian's gaze, but he was monitoring them closely, his golden-brown skin unnaturally pale. Azriel's shadows gathered close, half veiling him from view. And Amren-- Amren stepped between Rhys and Mor. They both towered over her. "I kept this unit from breaking for forty-nine years," Amren said, eyes flaring bright as lightning. "I am not going to let you rip it to shreds now." She faced Mor. "Working with Keir and Eris is not forgiving them. And when this war is over, I will hunt them down and butcher them with you, if that is what you wish." Mor said nothing--though she at last looked away from Rhys. "My father will poison this city." "I will not allow him to," Amren said. I believed her. And I think Mor did, too, for the tears that continued sliding free ... they seemed to shift, somehow. Amren turned to Rhys, whose face had now edged toward --devastation. I slid my hand through his. I see you, I said, giving him the words I'd once whispered all those months ago. And it does not frighten me. Amren said to him, "You're a sneaky bastard. You always have been, and likely always will be. But it doesn't excuse you, boy, from not warning us. Warning her, not where those two monsters are involved. Yes, you made the right call-- played it well. But you also played it badly." Something like shame dimmed his eyes. "I'm sorry." The words--to Mor, to Amren. Amren's dark hair swayed as she assessed them. Mor just shook her head at last--more acceptance than denial. I swallowed, my voice rough as I said, "This is war. Our allies are few and already don't trust us." I met each of them in the eye--my sister, Lucien, Mor, and Azriel and Cassian. Then Amren. Then my mate. I squeezed his hand at the guilt now sinking its claws deep into him. "You all have been to war and back--when I've never even set foot on a battlefield. But ... I have to imagine that we will not last long if ... we cleave apart. From within." Stumbling, near-incoherent words, but Azriel said at last, "She's right." Mor didn't so much as look in his direction. I could have sworn guilt clouded Azriel's eyes, there and gone in a blink. Amren stepped back to Nesta's side as Cassian asked me, "What happened with the mirror?" I shook my head. "Keir says it's mine, if I dare to take it. Apparently, what you see inside will break you--or drive you insane. No one's ever walked away from it." Cassian swore. "Exactly," I said. It was a risk perhaps none of us were entirely prepared to face. Not when we were all needed--each one of us. Mor added a bit hoarsely, straightening the ebony pleats and panels of her gossamer gown, "My father spoke true about that. I was raised with legends of the mirror. None were pleasant. Or successful." Cassian frowned at me, at Rhys. "So what--" "You are talking about the Ouroboros," Amren said. I blinked. Shit. Shit-- "Why do you want that mirror?" Her voice had slipped to a low timbre. Rhys slid his free hand into his pocket. "If honesty is the theme of the night ... Because the Bone Carver requested it." Amren's nostrils flared. "You went to the Prison." "Your old friends say hello," Cassian drawled, leaning a shoulder against the sitting room archway. Amren's face tightened, Nesta glancing between them-- carefully. Reading us. Especially as Amren's quicksilver eyes swirled. "Why did you go." I opened my mouth, but the gold of Lucien's eye caught my attention. Snared it. My hesitation must have been indication enough of my wariness. Jaw tight with a hint of frustration, Lucien excused himself to his room. Frustration--and perhaps disappointment. I blocked it out--what it did to my stomach. "We had some questions for the Carver." Cassian gave Amren a slash of a smile when Lucien was gone. "And we have some for you." Amren's smoke-filled eyes flared. "You are going to unleash the Carver." I said simply, "Yes." A one-monster army. "That is impossible." "I'll remind you that you, sweet Amren, escaped," Rhys countered smoothly. "And have stayed free. So it can be done. Perhaps you could tell us how you did it." Cassian had stationed himself by the doorway, I realized, to be closer to Nesta. To grab her if Amren decided she didn't particularly care for where this conversation was headed. Or for any of the furniture in this room. Precisely why Rhys now placed himself on Amren's other side--to draw her attention away from me, and Mor behind us, every muscle in her lithe body on alert. Cassian was staring at Nesta--hard enough that my sister at last twisted toward him. Met his gaze. His head tilted-- slightly. A silent order. Nesta, to my shock, obeyed. Drifted over to Cassian's side as Amren replied to Rhys, "No." "It wasn't a request," Rhys said. He'd once admitted that merely questioning Amren had been something she'd allowed him to do only in recent years. But giving her an order, pushing her like this ... "Feyre and Cassian spoke to the Bone Carver. He wants the Ouroboros in exchange for serving us--fighting Hybern for us. But we need you to explain how to get him out." The bargain Rhys or I would strike with him would suffice to hold him to our will. "Anything else?" Her voice was too calm, too sweet. "When we're done with all of this," Rhys said, "then my promise from months ago still holds: use the Book to send yourself home, if you want." Amren stared up at him. It was so quiet that the clock on the sitting room mantel could be heard. And beyond that--the fountain in the garden-- "Call off your dog," Amren said with that lethal tone. Because the shadow in the corner behind Amren ... that was Azriel. The obsidian hilt of Truth-Teller in his scarred hand. He'd moved without my realizing it--though I had no doubt the others had likely been aware. Amren bared her teeth at him. Azriel's beautiful face didn't so much as shift. Rhys remained where he was as he asked Amren, "Why won't you tell us?" Cassian casually slid Nesta behind him, his fingers snagging in the skirts of her black gown. As if to reassure himself that she wasn't in Amren's direct path. Nesta only rose onto her toes to peer over his shoulder. "Because the stone beneath this house has ears, the wind has ears--all of it listening," Amren said. "And if it reports back ... They will remember, Rhysand, that they have not caught me. And I will not let them put me in that black pit again." My ears hollowed out as a shield clicked into place. "No one will hear beyond this room." Amren surveyed the books lying forgotten on the low table in the sitting room. Her brows narrowed. "I had to give something up. I had to give me up. To walk out, I had to become something else entirely, something the Prison would not recognize. So I'll bound myself into this body." I'd never heard her stumble over a word before. "You said someone else bound you," Rhys questioned carefully. "I lied--to cover what I'd done. So none could know. To escape the Prison, I made myself mortal. Immortal as you are, but ... mortal compared to--to what I was. And what I was ... I did not feel, the way you do. The way I do now. Some things --loyalty and wrath and curiosity--but not the full spectrum." Again, that faraway look. "I was perfect, according to some. I did not regret, did not mourn--and pain ... I did not experience it. And yet ... yet I wound up here, because I was not quite like the others. Even as--as what I was, I was different. Too curious. Too questioning. The day the rip appeared in the sky ... it was curiosity that drove me. My brothers and sisters fled. Upon the orders of our ruler, we had just laid waste to twin cities, smote them wholly into rubble on the plain, and yet they fled from that rip in the world. But I wanted to look. I wanted. I was not built or bred to feel such selfish things as want. I'd seen what happened to those of my kind who strayed, who learned to place their needs first. Who developed ... feeling. But I went through the tear in the sky. And here I am." "And you gave all that up to get out of the Prison?" Mor asked softly. "I yielded my grace--my perfect immortality. I knew that once I did ... I would feel pain. And regret. I would want, and I would burn with it. I would ... fall. But I was--the time locked away down there ... I didn't care. I had not felt the wind on my face, had not smelled the rain ... I did not even remember what they felt like. I did not remember sunlight." It was to Azriel that her attention drifted--the shadowsinger's darkness pulling away to reveal eyes full of understanding. Locked away. "So I bound myself into this body. I shoved my burning grace deep into me. I gave up everything I was. The cell door just ... unlocked. And so I walked out." A burning grace ... That still smoldered far within her, visible only through the smoke in her gray eyes. "That will be the cost of freeing the Carver," Amren said. "You will have to bind him into a body. Make him ... Fae. And I doubt he will agree to it. Especially without the Ouroboros." We were silent. "You should have asked me before you went," she said, that sharpness returning to her tone. "I would have spared you the visit." Rhysand swallowed. "Can you be--unbound?" "Not by me." "What would happen if you were?" Amren stared at him for a long while. Then me. Cassian. Azriel. Mor. Nesta. Finally back to my mate. "I would not remember you. I would not care for any of you. I would either smite you or abandon you. What I feel now ... it would be foreign to me--it would hold no sway. Everything I am, this body ... it would cease to be." "What were you," Nesta breathed, coming around Cassian to stand at his side. Amren toyed with one of her black pearl earrings. "A messenger--and soldier-assassin. For a wrathful god who ruled a young world." I could feel the questions of the others brewing. Rhys's eyes were near-glowing with them. "Was Amren your name?" Nesta asked. "No." The smoke swirled in her eyes. "I do not remember the name I was given. I used Amren because--it's a long story." I almost begged her to tell it, but soft footsteps thudded, and then-- "Oh." Elain started--enough so that I realized she couldn't hear us. Had no idea we were here, thanks to the shield that kept sound from escaping. It instantly dropped. But my sister remained near the stairs. She'd covered her nightgown with a silk shawl of palest blue, her fingers grappling into the fabric as she held herself. I went to her immediately. "Do you need anything?" "No. I... I was sleeping, but I heard ..." She shook her head. Blinked at our formal attire, the dark crown atop my head--and Rhysand's. "I didn't hear you." Azriel stepped forward. "But you heard something else." Elain seemed about to nod, but only backed away. "I think I was dreaming," she murmured. "I think I'm always dreaming these days." "Let me get you some hot milk," I said, putting a hand on her elbow to guide her into the sitting room. But Elain shook me off, heading back to the stairs. She said as she climbed the first steps, "I can hear her--crying." I gripped the bottom post of the banister. "Who?" "Everyone thinks she's dead." Elain kept walking. "But she's not. Only--different. Changed. As I was." "Who," I pushed. But Elain continued up the stairs, that shawl drooping down her back. Nesta stalked from Cassian's side to approach my own. We both sucked in a breath, to say what, I didn't know but-- "What did you see," Azriel said, and I tried not to flinch as I found him at my other side, not having seen him move. Again. Elain paused halfway up the stairs. Slowly, she turned to look back at him. "I saw young hands wither with age. I saw a box of black stone. I saw a feather of fire land on snow and melt it." My stomach dropped to the floor. One glance at Nesta confirmed that she felt it, too. Saw it. Mad. Elain might very well have gone mad-- "It was angry," Elain said quietly. "It was so, so angry that something was taken. So it took something from them as punishment." We said nothing. I didn't know what to say--what to even ask or demand. If the Cauldron had done something to her as well ... I faced Azriel, exposing my palms to him. "What does that mean?" Azriel's hazel eyes churned as he studied my sister, her too- thin body. And without a word, he winnowed away. Mor watched the space where he'd been standing long after he was gone. I waited until the others had left--Cassian and Rhys slipping away to ponder the possibilities or lack thereof of our would- be allies, Amren storming off to be rid of us entirely, and Mor striding out to enjoy what she deemed as her last few days of peace in this city, a brittleness still in her voice--before I cornered Nesta in the sitting room. "What happened at the Hewn City--with you and Amren? You didn't mention it." "It was fine." I clenched my jaw. "What happened?" "She brought me to a room full of treasure. Strange objects. And it ..." She tugged at the tight sleeve of her gown. "Some of it wanted to hurt us. As if it were alive--aware. Like ... like in all those stories and lies we were fed over the wall." "Are you all right?" I couldn't find any signs of harm on either of them, and neither had said anything to suggest-- "It was a training exercise. With a form of magic designed to repel intruders." The words were recited. "As the wall will likely be. She wanted me to breach the defenses--find weaknesses." "And repair them?" "Just find the weaknesses. Repairing is another thing," Nesta said, her eyes going distant as she frowned at the still- open books on the low table before the fireplace. I sighed. "So ... that went right, at least." Those eyes went razor-sharp again. "I failed. Every time. So, no. It did not go right." I didn't know what to say. Sympathy would likely earn me a tongue-lashing. So I opted for another route. "We need to do something about Elain." Nesta stiffened. "And what solution do you propose, exactly? Letting your mate into her mind to scramble things around?" "I'd never do that. I don't think Rhys can even ... fix things like that." Nesta paced in front of the darkened fireplace. "Everything has a cost. Maybe the cost of her youth and immortality was losing part of her sanity." My knees wobbled enough that I took a seat on the deep- cushioned couch. "What was your cost?" Nesta stopped moving. "Perhaps it was to see Elain suffer --while I got away unscathed." I shot to my feet. "Nesta--" "Don't bother." But I trailed her as she strode for the stairs. To where Lucien was now descending the steps--and winced at the sight of her approach. He gave her a wide berth as she stormed past him. One look at his taut face had me bracing myself--and returning to the sitting room. I slumped into the nearest armchair, surprised to find myself still in my black dress as the fabric scraped against my bare skin. How long had I been back from the Hewn City? Thirty minutes? Less? And had the Prison only been that morning? It felt like days ago. I rested my head against the embroidered back of the chair and watched Lucien take a seat on the rolled arm of the nearest couch. "Long day?" I grunted my response. That metal eye tightened. "I thought the Prison was another myth." "Well, it's not." He weighed my tone, and crossed his arms. "Let me do something. About Elain. I heard--from my room. Everything that happened just now. It wouldn't hurt to have a healer look her over. Externally and internally." I was tired enough that I could barely summon the breath to ask, "Do you think the Cauldron made her insane?" "I think she went through something terrible," Lucien countered carefully. "And it wouldn't hurt to have your best healer do a thorough examination." I rubbed my hand over my face. "All right." My breath snagged on the words. "Tomorrow morning." I managed a shallow nod, rallying my strength to rise from the chair. Heavy --there was an old heaviness in me. Like I could sleep for a hundred years and it wouldn't be enough. "Please tell me," Lucien said when I crossed the threshold into the foyer. "What the healer says. And if--if you need me for anything." I gave him one final nod, speech suddenly beyond me. I knew Nesta still wasn't asleep as I walked past her room. Knew she'd heard every word of our conversation thanks to that Fae hearing. And I knew she heard as I listened at Elain's door, knocked once, and poked my head in to find her asleep --breathing. I sent a request to Madja, Rhysand's preferred healer, to come the next day at eleven. I did not explain why or who or what. Then went into my bedroom, crawled onto the mattress, and cried. I didn't really know why. Strong, broad hands rubbed down my spine, and I opened my eyes to find the room wholly black, Rhysand perched on the mattress beside me. "Do you want anything to eat?" His voice was soft--tentative. I didn't raise my head from the pillow. "I feel ... heavy again," I breathed, voice breaking. Rhys said nothing as he gathered me up into his arms. He was still in his jacket, as if he'd just come in from wherever he'd been talking with Cassian. In the dark, I breathed in his scent, savored his warmth. "Are you all right?" Rhys was quiet for a long minute. "No." I slid my arms around him, holding him tightly. "I should have found another way," he said. I stroked my fingers through his silken hair. Rhys murmured, "If she ..." His swallow was audible. "If she showed up at this house ..." I knew who he meant. "I would kill her. Without even letting her speak. I would kill her. "I know." I would, too. "You asked me at the library," he whispered. "Why I ... Why I'd rather take all of this upon myself. Tonight is why. Seeing Mor cry is why. I made a bad call. Tried to find some other way around this shithole we're in." And had lost something--WMor had lost something--in the process. We held each other in silence for minutes. Hours. Two souls, twining in the dark. I lowered my shields, let him in fully. His mind curled around mine. "Would you risk looking into it--the Ouroboros?" I asked. "Not yet," was all Rhys said, holding me tighter. "Not yet." <|title|>Chapter 28 <|startofchapter|>I dragged myself out of bed by sheer will the next morning. Amren had said the Carver wouldn't bind himself into a Fae body--had claimed that. But it wouldn't hurt to try. If it gave us the slightest chance of holding out, of keeping Rhys from giving everything ... He was already gone by the time I awoke. I gritted my teeth as I dressed in my leathers and winnowed to the House of Wind. I had my wings ready as I hit the wards protecting it, and managed a decent-enough glide into the open-air training ring on its flat top. Cassian was already waiting, hands on his hips. Watching as I eased down, down ... Too fast. My feet skipped over the dirt, bouncing me up, up "Backflap--" His warning was too late. I slammed into a wall of crimson before I could get a face full of the ruddy rock, but--I swore, pride skinned as much as my palms as I staggered back, my wings unwieldy behind me. Cassian's shoulders shook as he reined in a laugh, and I gave him a vulgar gesture in return. "If you go in for a landing that way, make sure you have room." I scowled. "Lesson learned." "Or space to bank and circle until you slow--" "I get it." Cassian held up his hands, but the amusement faded as he watched me dismiss the wings and stalk toward him. "You want to go hard today, or take it easy?" I didn't think the others gave him enough credit--for noticing the shift in someone's emotional current. To command legions, I supposed, he needed to be able to read that sort of thing, judge when his soldiers or enemies were strong or breaking or broken. I peered inside, to that place where I now felt like quicksand, and said, "Hard. I want to limp out of here." I peeled off the leather jacket and rolled up the sleeves of my white shirt. Cassian swept an assessing stare over me. He murmured, "It helps me, too--the physical activity, the training." He rolled his shoulders as I began to stretch. "It's always helped me focus and center myself. And after last night ..." He tied back his dark hair. "I definitely need it--this." I held my leg folded behind me, my muscles protesting at the stretch. "I suppose there are worse methods of coping." A lopsided grin. "Indeed there are." Azriel's lesson afterward consisted of standing in a breeze and trying to memorize his instructions on currents and downdrafts, on how heat and cold could shape wind and speed. Throughout it, he was quiet--removed. Even by his standards. I made the mistake of asking if he'd spoken to Mor since he'd left last night. No, he had not. And that was that. Even if he kept flexing his scarred hand at his side. As if recalling the sensation of the hand she'd whipped free of his touch during that meeting. Over and over. I didn't dare tell him that he'd made the right call--that perhaps he should talk to Mor, rather than let the guilt eat at him. The two of them had enough between them without me shoving myself into it. I was indeed limping by the time I returned to the town house hours later, finding Mor at the dining table, munching on a giant pastry she'd grabbed from a bakery on her way in. "You look like a team of horses trampled you," she said around her food. "Good," I said, taking the pastry out of her hand and finishing it off. She squawked in outrage, but snapped her fingers, and a plate of carved melon from the kitchen down the hall appeared on the polished table before her. Right atop the pile of what looked to be letters on various pieces of stationery. "What's that?" I said, wiping the crumbs from my mouth. "The first of the High Lords' responses," she said sweetly, plucking up a slice of the green fruit and biting off a chunk. No hint of last night's rage and fear. "That pleasant, hmm?" "Helion's came first this morning. Between all the innuendo, I think he said he'd be willing to ... join us." I lifted my brows. "That's good--isn't it?" A shrug. "Helion, we weren't worried about. The other two ... She finished off the melon, chewing wetly. "Thesan says he'll come, but won't do it unless it's in a truly neutral and safe location. Kallias ... he doesn't trust any of us after ... Under the Mountain. He wants to bring armed guards." Day, Dawn, and Winter. Our closest allies. "No word from anyone else?" My gut tightened. "No. Spring, Autumn, and Summer haven't sent a reply." "We don't have much time until the meeting. What if they refuse to reply at all?" I didn't have the nerve to wonder aloud if Eris would be good to his word and make sure his father attended--and joined our cause. Not with the light back in her face. Mor picked up another slice of melon. "Then we'll have to decide if Rhys and I will go drag them by their necks to this meeting, or if we'll have it without them." "I'd suggest the second option." Mor furrowed her brows. "The first," I clarified, "doesn't sound conducive to actually forming an alliance." Though I was surprised that Tarquin hadn't responded. Even with his blood feud with us ... The male I'd met, whom I still admired so much ... Surely he'd want to ally against Hybern. Unless he now wanted to ally with them to ensure Rhys and I were wiped off the map forever. "We'll see," was all Mor said. I blew out a breath through my nose. "About last night--" "It's fine. It's nothing." The swiftness with which she spoke suggested anything but. "It's not nothing. You're allowed to feel that way." Mor fluffed her hair. "Well, it won't help us win this war." "No. But ... Pm not sure what to say." Mor stared toward the window for a long moment. "I understand why Rhys did it. The position we were in. Eris is ... You know what he is like. And if he was indeed threatening to sell information about your gifts to his father ... Mother above, I would have made the same bargain with Eris to keep Beron from hunting you." Something in my chest eased at that. "It's just ... My father knew--the second he heard of this place, he probably knew what it meant to me. There would have been no other asking price for my father's help in this war. None. Rhys knew that as well. Tried to bring Eris into it to sweeten the deal for my father--to possibly avoid this outcome with Velaris altogether." I raised my brows in silent question. "We talked--Rhys and I. This morning. While Cassian was kicking your ass." I snorted. "What about Azriel?" So much for my decision to stay out of it. Mor resumed picking at the melon. "Az ... He had a tough call to make, when Eris found him. He ..." She chewed on her lip. "I don't know why I expected him to side with me, why it caught me so off guard." I refrained from suggesting she tell him that. Mor shrugged. "It just ... it all took me by surprise. And I will never be happy about any of these terms, but ... My father wins, Eris wins, all the males like them win if I let it get to me. If I let it impact my joy, my life. My relationships with all of you." She sighed at the ceiling. "I hate war." "Likewise." "Not just for the death and awfulness," Mor went on. "But because of what it does to us. These decisions." I nodded, even if I was only starting to understand. The choices and the costs. I opened my mouth, but a knock on the front door sounded. I glanced to the clock in the sitting room across the foyer. Right. The healer. I'd mentioned to Elain this morning that Madja was coming to see her at eleven, and I'd gotten a noncommittal response. Better than outright refusal, I supposed. "Are you going to answer the door, or should I?" I made a vulgar gesture at the sheer sass in Mor's question, but my friend gripped my hand as I rose from my chair. "If you need anything ... I'll be right here." I gave Mor a small, grateful smile. "As will I." She was still smiling at me as I took a deep breath before heading for the entry. The healer found nothing. I believed her--if only because Madja was one of the few High Fae I'd seen whose dark skin was etched with wrinkles, her hair spindrift fine with age. Her brown eyes were still clear and kindled with an inner warmth, and her knobby hands remained steady as she passed them over Elain's body while my sister lay patiently, silently, on the bed. Magic, sweet and cooling, had thrummed from the female, filling Elain's bedroom. And when she had gently laid her hands on either side of Elain's head and I'd started, Madja had only smiled wryly over her thin shoulder and told me to relax. Nesta, sharp-eyed in the corner, had kept quiet. After a long minute, Madja asked us to join her in fetching Elain a cup of tea--with a pointed glance to the door. We both took the invitation and left our sister in her sunlit room. "What do you mean, nothing is wrong with her?" Nesta hissed under her breath as the ancient female braced a hand on the stair railing to help herself down. I kept beside the healer, a hand in easy reach of her elbow, should she need it. Madja, I reminded myself, had healed Cassian and Azriel-- and countless injuries beyond that. She'd healed Rhys's wings during the War. She looked ancient, but I had no doubt of her stamina--or sheer will to help her patients. Madja didn't deign to answer Nesta until we were at the bottom of the steps. Lucien was already waiting in the sitting room, Mor still lingering in the dining room. Both of them rose to their feet, but remained in their respective rooms, flanking the foyer. "What I mean," Madja said at last, sizing up Nesta, then me, "is that I can find nothing wrong with her. Her body is fine --too thin and in need of more food and fresh air, but nothing amiss. And as for her mind ... I cannot enter it." I blinked. "She has a shield?" "She is Cauldron-Made," the healer said, again looking over Nesta. "You are not like the rest of us. I cannot pierce the places it left its mark most deeply." The mind. The soul. She shot me a warning glance. "And I would not try if I were you, Lady." "But do you think there's something wrong, even if there are no signs?" Nesta pushed. "I have seen the victims of trauma before. Her symptoms match well with many of those invisible wounds. But ... she was also Made by something I do not understand. Is there something wrong with her?" Madja chewed over the words. "I do not like that word--wrong. Different, perhaps. Changed." "Does she need further help?" Nesta said through her teeth. The ancient healer jerked her chin toward Lucien. "See what he can do. If anyone can sense if something is amiss, it's a mate." "How." The word was barely more than a barked command. I braced myself to warn Nesta to be polite, but Madja said to my sister, as if she were a small child, "The mating bond. It is a bridge between souls." The healer's tone made my sister stiffen, but Madja was already hobbling for the front door. She pointed at Lucien as she saw herself out. "Try sitting down with her. Just talking-- sensing. See what you pick up. But don't push." Then she was gone. I whirled on Nesta. "A little respect, Nesta--" "Call another healer." "Not if you're going to bark them out of the house." "Call another healer." Mor strode for us with deceptive calm, and Nesta gave her a withering glare. I caught Lucien's eye. "Would you try it?" Nesta snarled, "Don't you even attempt--" "Be quiet," I snapped. Nesta blinked. I bared my teeth at her. "He will try. And if he doesn't find anything amiss, we'll consider bringing another healer." "You're just going to drag her down here?" "I'm going to invite her." Nesta faced Mor, still watching from the archway. "And what will you be doing?" Mor gave my sister a half smile. "I'll be sitting with Feyre. Keeping an eye on things." Lucien muttered something about not needing to be monitored, and we all looked at him with raised brows. He just lifted his hands, claimed he wanted to freshen up, and headed down the hall. <|title|>Chapter 29 <|startofchapter|>It was the most uncomfortable thirty minutes I could recall. Mor and I sipped chilled mint tea by the bay window, the replies of the three High Lords piled on the little table between our twin chairs, pretending to be watching the summer-kissed street beyond us, the children, High Fae and faerie, darting about with kites and streamers and all manner of toys. Pretending, while Lucien and Elain sat in stilted silence by the dim fireplace, an untouched tea service between them. I didn't dare ask if he was trying to get into her head, or if he was feeling a bond similar to that black adamant bridge between Rhys's mind and my own. If a normal mating bond felt wholly different. A teacup rattled and rasped against a saucer, and Mor and I glanced over. Elain had picked up the teacup, and now sipped from it without so much as looking toward him. In the dining room across the hall, I knew Nesta was craning her neck to look. Knew, because Amren snapped at my sister to pay attention. They were building walls--in their minds, Amren had told me as she ordered Nesta to sit at the dining room table, directly across from her. Walls that Amren was teaching her to sense--to find the holes she'd laid throughout. And repair them. If the fell objects at the Court of Nightmares had not allowed my sister to grasp what must be done, then this was their next attempt-- a different, invisible route. Not all magic was flash and glittering, Amren had declared, and then shooed me out. But any sign of that power within my sister ... I did not hear it or see it or feel it. And neither offered any explanation for what it was, exactly, that they were trying to coax from within her. Outside the house, movement again caught our eye, and we found Rhys and Cassian strolling in through the low front gate, returning from their first meeting with Keir's Darkbringer army commanders--already rallying and preparing. At least that much had gone right yesterday. Both of them spotted us in the window within a heartbeat. Stopped cold. Don't come in, I warned him through the bond. Lucien is trying to sense what's wrong with Elain. Through the bond. Rhys murmured what I'd said to Cassian, who now angled his head, much in the way I had no doubt Nesta had done, to peer beyond us. Rhys said wryly, Does Elain know this? She was invited down for tea. So we're having it. Rhys muttered again to Cassian, who choked on a laugh and turned right around, heading into the street. Rhys lingered, sliding his hands into his pockets. He's getting a drink. I'm inclined to join him. When can I return without fearing for my life? I gave him a vulgar gesture through the window. Such a big, strong Illyrian warrior. Illyrian warriors know when to pick their battles. And with Nesta watching everything like a hawk and you two circling like vultures ... I know who will walk away from that fight. I made the gesture again, and Mor figured out enough of what was being said that she echoed the movement. Rhys laughed quietly and sketched a bow. The High Lords sent replies, I said as he strolled away. Day, Dawn, and Winter will come. I know, he said. And I just received word from Cresseida that Tarquin is contemplating it. Better than nothing. I said as much. Rhys smiled at me over his shoulder. Enjoy your tea, you overbearing chaperone. I could have used a chaperone around you, you realize. You had four of them in this house. I smiled as he finally reached the low front gate where Cassian waited, apparently using the momentary delay to stretch out his wings, to the delight of the half-dozen children now gawking at them. Amren hissed from the other room, "Focus." The dining table rattled. The sound seemed to startle Elain, who swiftly set down her teacup. She rose to her feet, and Lucien shot to his. "Pm sorry," he blurted. "What--what was that?" Mor put a hand on my knee to keep me from rising, too. "It--it was a tug. On the bond." Amren snapped, "Don't you--wicked girl." Then Nesta was standing in the threshold. "What did you do." The words were as sharp as a blade. Lucien looked to her, then over to me. A muscle feathered in his jaw. "Nothing," he said, and again faced his mate. "I'm sorry--if that unsettled you." Elain sidled toward Nesta, who seemed to be at a near- simmer. "It felt ... strange," Elain breathed. "Like you pulled on a thread tied to a rib." Lucien exposed his palms to her. "I'm sorry." Elain only stared at him for a long moment. And any lucidity faded away as she shook her head, blinking twice, and said to Nesta, "Twin ravens are coming, one white and one black." Nesta hid the devastation well. The frustration. "What can I get you, Elain?" Only with Elain did she use that voice. But Elain shook her head once more. "Sunshine." Nesta cut me a furious stare before guiding our sister down the hall--to the sunny garden in the back. Lucien waited until the glass door had opened and closed before he loosed a long breath. "There's a bond--it's a real thread," he said, more to himself than us. "And?" Mor asked. Lucien ran both hands through his long red hair. His skin was darker--a deep golden-brown, compared to the paleness of Eris's coloring. "And I got to Elain's end of it when she ran off." "Did you sense anything?" "No--I didn't have time. I felt her, but ..." A blush stained his cheek. Whatever he'd felt, it wasn't what we were looking for. Even if we had no idea what, precisely, that was. "We can try again--another day," I offered. Lucien nodded, but looked unconvinced. Amren snapped from the dining room, "Someone go retrieve your sister. Her lesson isn't over." I sighed. "Yes, Amren." Lucien's attention slid behind me, to the various letters on different styles and makes of paper. That golden eye narrowed. As Tamlin's emissary, he no doubt recognized them. "Let me guess: they said yes, but picking the location is now going to be the headache." Mor frowned. "Any suggestions?" Lucien tied back his hair with a strap of brown leather. "Do you have a map?" I supposed that left me to retrieve Nesta. "That pine tree wasn't there a moment ago." Azriel let out a quiet laugh from where he sat atop a boulder two days later, watching me pluck pine needles out of my hair and jacket. "Judging by its size, l'd say it's been there for ... two hundred years at least." I scowled, brushing off the shards of bark and my bruised pride. That coldness, that aloofness that had been there in the wake of Mor's anger and rejection ... It'd warmed. Either from Mor choosing to sit next to him at dinner last night--a silent offer of forgiveness--or simply needing time to recover from it. Even if I could have sworn some kernel of guilt had flickered every time Azriel had looked at Mor. What Cassian had thought of it, of his own anger toward Azriel ... he'd been all smiles and lewd comments. Glad all was back to normal-- for now at least. My cheeks burned as I scaled the boulder he perched on, the drop at least fifteen feet to the forest floor below, the lake a sparkling sprawl peeking through the pine trees. Including the tree I'd collided with face-first on my latest attempt to leap off the boulder and simply sail to the lake. I braced my hands on my hips, examining the drop, the trees, the lake beyond. "What did I do wrong?" Azriel, who had been sharpening Truth-Teller in his lap, flicked his hazel eyes up to me. "Aside from the tree?" The shadowsinger had a sense of humor. Dry and quiet, but. alone together, it came out far more often than it did amongst our group. I'd spent these past two days either poring over ancient volumes for any hint on repairing the wall to hand over to Amren and Nesta, who continued to silently, invisibly build and mend walls within their minds, or debating with Rhys and the others about how to reply to the volley of letters now being exchanged with the other High Lords regarding where the meeting would take place. Lucien had indeed given us an initial location, and several more when those were struck down. But that was to be expected, Lucien had said, as if he'd arranged such things countless times. Rhys had only nodded in agreement--and approval. And when I wasn't doing that ... I was combing through more books, any and all Clotho could find me, all regarding the Ouroboros. How to master it. The mirror was notorious. Every known philosopher had ruminated on it. Some had dared face it--and gone mad. Some had approached--and run away in terror. I could not find an account of anyone who had mastered it. Faced what lurked within and walked away with the mirror in their possession. Save for the Weaver in the Wood--who certainly seemed insane enough, perhaps thanks to the mirror she'd so dearly loved. Or perhaps whatever evil lurked in her had tainted the mirror, too. Some of the philosophers had suggested as much, though they hadn't known her name--only that a dark queen had once possessed it, cherished it. Spied on the world with it --and used it to hunt down beautiful young maidens to keep her eternally young. I supposed Keir's family owning the Ouroboros for millennia suggested the success rate of walking away was low. It was not heartening. Not when all the texts agreed on one thing: there was no way around it. No loophole. Facing the terror within ... that was the only route to claim it. Which meant I perhaps had to consider alternatives--other ways to entice the Bone Carver to join us. When I found a moment. Azriel sheathed his legendary fighting knife and examined the wings I'd spread wide. "You're trying to steer with your arms. The muscles are in the wings themselves--and in your back. Your arms are unnecessary--they're more for balancing than anything. And even that's mostly a mental comfort." It was more words than I'd ever heard from him. He lifted a brow at my gaping, and I shut my mouth. I frowned at the drop ahead. "Again?" I grumbled. A soft laugh. "We can find a lower ledge to jump from, if you want." I cringed. "You said this was low." Azriel leaned back on his hands and waited. Patient, cool. But I felt the bark tear into my palms, the thud of my knees into its rough side-- "You are immortal," he said quietly. "You are very hard to break." A pause. "That's what I told myself." "Hard to break," I said glumly, "but it still hurts." "Tell that to the tree." I huffed a laugh. "I know the drop isn't far, and I know it won't kill me. Can't you just ... push me?" For it was that initial leap of utter faith, that initial lurch into motion that had my limbs locking up. "No." A simple answer. I still hesitated. Useless--this fear. I had faced down the Attor, falling through the sky for a thousand feet. And the rage at its memory, at what it had done with its miserable life, what more like it might do again, had me gritting my teeth and sprinting off the boulder. I snapped my wings out wide, my back protesting as they caught the wind, but my lower half began to drop, my legs a dead weight as my core yielded-- The infernal tree rose up before me, and I swerved hard to the right. Right into another tree. Wings first. The sound of bone and sinew on wood, then earth, hit me before the pain did. So did Azriel's soft curse. A small noise came out of me. The stinging of my palms registered first--then in my knees. Then my back-- "Shit," was all I could say as Azriel knelt before me. "You're all right. Just stunned." The world was still reordering itself. "You banked well," he offered. "Into another tree." "Being aware of your surroundings is half of flying." "You said that already," I snapped. He had. A dozen times just this morning. Azriel only sat on his heels and offered me a hand up. My flesh burned as I gripped his fingers, a mortifying number of pine needles and splinters tumbling off me. My back throbbed enough that I lowered my wings, not caring if they dragged in the dirt as Azriel led me toward the lake edge. In the blinding sun off the turquoise water, his shadows were gone, his face stark and clear. More ... human than I had ever seen him. "There's no chance that I'll be able to fly in the legions, is there?" I asked, kneeling beside him as he tended to my skinned palms with expert care and gentleness. The sun was brutal against his scars, hiding not one twisted, rippling splotch. "Likely not," he said. My chest hollowed out at that. "But it doesn't hurt to practice until the last possible moment. You never know when any measure of training may be useful." I winced as he fished out a large splinter from my palm, then washed it clean. "It was very hard for me to learn how to fly," he said. I didn't dare respond. "Most Illyrians learn as toddlers. But ... I assume Rhysand told you the particulars of my early childhood." I nodded. He finished the one hand and started on the other. "Because I was so old, I had a fear of flying--and did not trust my instincts. It was an ... embarrassment to be taught so late. Not just to me, but to all in the war-camp once I arrived. But I learned, often going off by myself. Cassian, of course, found me first. Mocked me, beat me to hell, then offered to train me. Rhys was there the next day. They taught me to fly." He finished my other hand, and sat on the shore, the stones murmuring as they shifted beneath him. I sat beside him, bracing my sore palms faceup on my knees, letting my wings sag behind me. "Because it was such an effort ... A few years after the War, Rhys brought me back a story. It was a gift--the story. For me. He--he went to see Miryam and Drakon in their new home, the visit so secret even we hadn't known it was happening until he returned. We knew their people hadn't drowned in the sea, as everyone believed, as they wanted people to believe. You see, when Miryam freed her people from the queen of the Black Land, she led all of them--nearly fifty thousand of them--across the desert, all the way to the shores of the Erythrian Sea, Drakon's aerial legion providing cover. But they got to the sea and found the ships they'd arranged to transport them over the narrow channel to the next kingdom had been destroyed. Destroyed by the queen herself, who sent her lingering armies to drag her former slaves back. "Drakon's people--the Seraphim--are winged. Like us, but their wings are feathered. And unlike us, their army and society allow women to lead, to fight, to rule. All of them are gifted with mighty magic of wind and air. And when they beheld that army charging after them, they knew their own force was too small to face them. So they cleaved the sea itself --made a path through the water, all the way through the channel, and ordered the humans to run. "They did, but Miryam insisted on remaining behind until every last one of her people had crossed. Not one human would she leave behind. Not one. They were about halfway through the crossing when the army reached them. The Seraphim were spent--their magic could barely hold the sea passage. And Drakon knew that if they held it any longer ... that army would make it across and butcher the humans on the other side. The Seraphim fought off the vanguard on the floor of the sea, and it was bloody and brutal and chaotic ... And during the melee, they didn't see Miryam skewered by the queen herself. Drakon didn't see. He thought she made it out, carried by one of his soldiers. He ordered the parted sea to come down to drown the enemy force. "But a young Seraphim cartographer named Nephelle saw Miryam go down. Nephelle's lover was one of Drakon's generals, and it was she who realized Miryam and Nephelle were missing. Drakon was frantic, but their magic was spent and no force in the world could hold back the sea as it barreled down, and no one could reach his mate in time. But Nephelle did. "Nephelle, you see, was a cartographer because she'd been rejected from the legion's fighting ranks. Her wings were too small, the right one somewhat malformed. And she was slight --short enough that she'd be a dangerous gap in the front lines when they fought shield to shield. Drakon had let her try out for the legion as a courtesy to her lover, but Nephelle failed. She could barely carry the Seraphim shield, and her smaller wings hadn't been strong enough to keep up with the others. So she had made herself invaluable as a cartographer during the War, helping Drakon and her lover find the geographical advantages in their battles. And she became Miryam's dearest friend during those long months as well. "And that day on the seafloor, Nephelle remembered that her friend had been in the back of the line. She returned for her, even as all others fled for the distant shore. She found Miryam skewered on the queen's spear, bleeding out. The sea wall started to come down--on the opposite shore. Killing the approaching army first--racing toward them. "Miryam told Nephelle to save herself. But Nephelle would not abandon her friend. She picked her up and flew." Azriel's voice was soft with awe. "When Rhys spoke to Drakon about it years later, he still didn't have words to describe what happened. It defied all logic, all training. Nephelle, who had never been strong enough to hold a Seraphim shield, carried Miryam--triple the weight. And more than that ... She flew. The sea was crashing down upon them, but Nephelle flew like the best of Seraphim warriors. The seafloor was a labyrinth of jagged rocks, too narrow for the Seraphim to fly through. They'd tried during their escape and crashed into them. But Nephelle, with her smaller wings ... Had they been one inch wider, she would not have fit. And more than that ... Nephelle soared through them, Miryam dying in her arms, as fast and skilled as the greatest of Seraphim. Nephelle, who had been passed over, who had been forgotten ... She outraced death itself. There was not a foot of room between her and the water on either side of her when she shot up from the seafloor; not half of that rising up at her feet. And yet her too-small wingspan, that deformed wing ... they did not fail her. Not once. Not for one wing beat." My eyes burned. "She made it. Suffice to say her lover made Nephelle her wife that night, and Miryam ... well, she is alive today because of Nephelle." Azriel picked up a flat, white stone and turned it over in his hands. "Rhys told me the story when he returned. And since then we have privately adapted the Nephelle Philosophy with our own armies." I raised a brow. Azriel shrugged. "We--Rhys, Cass, and I-- will occasionally remind each other that what we think to be our greatest weakness can sometimes be our biggest strength. And that the most unlikely person can alter the course of history." "The Nephelle Philosophy." He nodded. "Apparently, every year in their kingdom, they have the Nephelle Run to honor her flight. On dry land, but ... She and her wife crown a new victor every year in commemoration of what happened that day." He chucked the stone back amongst its brethren on the shore, the sound clattering over the water. "So we'll train, Feyre, until the last possible day. Because we never know if just one extra hour will make the difference." I weighed his words, Nephelle's story. I rose to my feet and spread my wings. "Then let's try again." I groaned as I limped into our bedroom that night to find Rhys sitting at the desk, poring over more books. "I warned you that Azriel's a hard bastard," he said without looking at me. He lifted a hand, and water gurgled in the adjacent bathing room. I grumbled a thank-you and trudged toward it, gritting my teeth against the agony in my back, my thighs, my bones. Every part hurt, and since the muscles needed to re-form around the wings, I had to carry them, too. Their scraping along the wood and carpet, then wood again, was the only sound beyond my weary feet. I beheld the steaming bath that would require some balancing to get into and whimpered. Even removing my clothes would entail using muscles that had nearly given out. A chair scraped in the bedroom, followed by cat-soft feet, then-- "I'm sure you already know this, but you need to actually climb into a bath to get clean--not stare at it." I didn't have the strength to even glare at him, and I managed all of one stumbling, stiff step toward the water when he caught me. My clothes vanished, presumably to the laundry downstairs, and Rhys swept me into his arms, lowering my naked body into the water. With the wings, the fit was tight, and-- I groaned from deep in my throat at the glorious heat and didn't bother to do anything other than lean my head against the back of the tub. "I'll be right back," he said, and left the bathroom, then the bedroom itself. By the time he returned, I only knew I'd fallen asleep thanks to the hand he put on my shoulder. "Out," he said, but lifted me himself, toweled me off, and led me to the bed. He lay me down belly-first, and I noted the oils and balms he'd set there, the faint odor of rosemary and--something I was too tired to notice but smelled lovely floating to me. His hands gleamed as he applied generous amounts to his palms, and then his hands were on me. My groan was about as undignified as they came as he kneaded the aching muscles of my back. The sorer areas drew out rather pathetic-sounding whimpers, but he rubbed them gently, until the tension was a dull ache rather than sharp, blinding pain. And then he started on my wings. Relief and ecstasy, as muscles eased and those sensitive areas were lovingly, tauntingly grazed over. My toes curled, and just as he reached the sensitive spot that had my stomach clenching, his hands slid to my calves. He began a slow progression, higher and higher, up my thighs, teasing strokes between them that left me panting through my nose. Rising up until he got to my backside, where his massaging was equally professional and sinful. And then up-- up my lower back, to my wings. His touch turned different. Exploring. Broad strokes and featherlight ones, arches and swirls and direct, searing lines. My core heated, turning molten, and I bit down on my lip as he lightly scraped a fingernail so, so close to that inner, sensitive spot. "Too bad you're so sore from training," Rhys mused, making idle, lazy circles. I could only manage a garbled strand of words that were both plea and insult. He leaned in, his breath warming the space of skin between my wings. "Did I ever tell you that you have the dirtiest mouth I've ever heard?" I muttered words that only offered more proof of that claim. He chuckled and skimmed the edge of that sensitive spot, right as his other hand slid between my legs. Brazenly, I lifted my hips in silent demand. But he just circled with a finger, as lazy as the strokes along my wing. He kissed my spine. "How shall I make love to you tonight, Feyre darling?" I writhed, rubbing against the folds of the blankets beneath me, desperate for any sort of friction as he dangled me over that edge. "So impatient," he purred, and that finger glided into me. I moaned, the sensation too much, too consuming, with his hand between my legs and the other stroking closer and closer to that spot on my wing, a predator circling prey. "Will it ever stop?" he mused, more to himself than me as another finger joined the one sliding in and out of me with taunting, indolent strokes. "Wanting you--every hour, every breath. I don't think I can stand a thousand years of this." My hips moved with him, driving him deeper. "Think of how my productivity will plummet." I growled something at him that was likely not very romantic, and he chuckled, slipping out both fingers. I made a little whining noise of protest. Until his mouth replaced where his fingers had been, his hands gripping my hips to raise me up, to lend him better access as he feasted on me. I groaned, the sound muffled by the pillow, and he only delved deeper, taunting and teasing with every stroke. A low moan broke from me, my hips rolling. Rhys's grip on them tightened, holding me still for his ministrations. "I never got to take you in the library," he said, dragging his tongue right up my center. "We'll have to remedy that." "Rhys." His name was a plea on my lips. "Hmmm," was all he said, a rumble of the sound against me ... I panted, hands fisting in the sheets. His hands drifted from my hips at last, and I again breathed his name, in thanks and relief and anticipation of him at last giving me what I wanted-- But his mouth closed around the bundle of nerves at the apex of my thighs while his hand ... He went right to that damned spot at the inner edge of my left wing and stroked lightly. My climax tore through me with a hoarse cry, sending me soaring out of my body. And when the shuddering ripples and starlight faded ... A bone-weary exhaustion settled over me, permanent and unending as the mating bond between us. Rhys curled into bed behind me, tucking my wings in so he could fold me against him. "That was a fun experiment," he murmured into my ear. I could feel him against my backside, hard and ready, but when I made to reach for him, Rhys's arms only tightened around me. "Sleep, Feyre," he told me. So I laid a hand on his forearm, savoring the corded strength beneath, and nestled my head back against his chest. "I wish I had days to spend with you--like this," I managed to say as my eyelids drooped. "Just me and you." "We will." He kissed my hair. "We will." <|title|>Chapter 30 <|startofchapter|>I was still sore enough the next day that I had to send word to Cassian I wasn't training with him. Or Azriel. A mistake, perhaps, given that both of them showed up at the door to the town house within minutes, the former demanding what the hell was wrong with me, the latter bearing a tin of salve to help with the aches in my back. I thanked Azriel for the salve and told Cassian to mind his own business. And then asked him to fly Nesta up to the House of Wind for me, since I certainly couldn't fly her in--even for a few feet after winnowing. My sister, it seemed, had found nothing in her books about repairing the wall--and since no one had yet shown her the library ... I'd volunteered. Especially since Lucien had left before breakfast for a library across the city to look up anything in regard to fixing the wall, a task I'd been more than willing to hand over. I might have felt guilty for never giving him a proper tour of Velaris, but ... he seemed eager. More than eager--he seemed to be itching to head into the city on his own. The two Illyrians paused their inspection of me long enough to note my sisters finishing up breakfast, Nesta in a pale gray gown that brought out the steel in her eyes, Elain in dusty pink. Both males went a bit still. But Azriel sketched a bow-- while Cassian stalked for the dining table, reached right over Nesta's shoulder, and grabbed a muffin from its little basket. "Morning, Nesta," he said around a mouth of blueberry-lemon. "Elain." Nesta's nostrils flared, but Elain peered up at Cassian, blinking twice. "He snapped your wings, broke your bones." I tried to shut out the sound of Cassian's scream--the memory of the spraying blood. Nesta stared at her plate. Elain, at least, was out of her room, but ... "It'll take more than that to kill me," Cassian said with a smirk that didn't meet his eyes. Elain only said to Cassian, "No, it will not." Cassian's dark brows narrowed. I dragged a hand over my face before going to Elain and touching her too-bony shoulder. "Can I set you up in the garden? The herbs you planted are coming in nicely." "I can help her," said Azriel, stepping to the table as Elain silently rose. No shadows at his ear, no darkness ringing his fingers as he extended a hand. Nesta monitored him like a hawk, but kept silent as Elain took his hand, and out they went. Cassian finished the muffin, licking his fingers. I could have sworn Nesta watched the entire thing with a sidelong glance. He grinned at her as if he knew it, too. "Ready for some flying, Nes?" "Don't call me that." The wrong thing to say, from the way Cassian's eyes lit up. I chose that moment to winnow to the skies above the House, chuckling as wind carried me through the world. Some sisterly payback, I supposed. For Nesta's general attitude. Mercifully, no one saw my slightly better crash landing on the veranda, and by the time Cassian's dark figure appeared in the sky, Nesta's hair bright as bronze in the morning sun, I'd brushed off the dirt and dust from my leathers. My sister's face was wind-flushed as Cassian gently set her down. Then she strode for the glass doors without a single look back. "You're welcome," Cassian called after her, more than a bite to his voice. His hands clenched and slackened at his sides --as if he were trying to loosen the feel of her from his palms. "Thank you," I said to him, but Cassian didn't bother saying farewell as he launched skyward and vanished into the clouds. The library beneath the House was shadowed, quiet. The doors opened for us, the same way they'd opened when Rhys and I had first visited. Nesta said nothing, only surveying every stack and alcove and dangling chandelier as I led her down to the level where Clotho had found those books. I showed her the small reading area where I'd been stationed, and gestured to the desk. "I know Cassian gets under your skin, but I'm curious, too. How do you know what to look for in regard to the wall?" Nesta ran a finger over the ancient wood desk. "Because I just do." "How." "I don't know how. Amren told me to just ... see if the information clicks." And perhaps that frightened her. Intrigued her, but frightened her. And she hadn't told Cassian not out of spite, but because she didn't wish to reveal that vulnerability. That lack of control. I didn't push. Even as I stared at her for a long moment. I didn't know how--how to broach that subject, how to ask if she was all right, if I could help her. I had never been affectionate with her--I'd never held her. Kissed her cheek. I didn't know where to begin. So I just said, "Rhys gave me a layout of the stacks. I think there might be more on the Cauldron and wall a few levels down. You can wait here, or--" "I'll help you look." We followed the sloping path in silence, the rustle of paper and occasional whisper of a priestess's robes along the stone floors the only sounds. I quietly explained to her who the priestesses were--why they were here. I explained that Rhys and I planned to offer sanctuary to any humans who could make it to Velaris. She said nothing, quieter and quieter as we descended, that black pit on my right seeming to grow thicker the deeper we went. But we reached a path of stacks that veered into the mountain in a long hall, faelights flickering into life within glass globes along the wall as we passed. Nesta scanned the shelves while we walked, and I read the titles--a bit more slowly, still needing a little time to process what was instinct for my sister. "I didn't know you couldn't really read," Nesta said as she paused before a nondescript section, noticing the way I silently sounded out the words of a title. "I didn't know where you were in your lessons--when it all happened. I assumed you could read as easily as us." "Well, I couldn't." "Why didn't you ask us to teach you?" I trailed a finger over the neat row of spines. "Because I doubted you would agree to help." Nesta stiffened like I'd hit her, coldness blooming in those eyes. She tugged a book from a shelf. "Amren said Rhysand taught you to read." My cheeks heated. "He did." And there, deep beneath the world, with only darkness for company, I asked, "Why do you push everyone away but Elain?" Why have you always pushed me away? Some emotion guttered in her eyes. Her throat bobbed. Nesta shut her eyes for a moment, breathing in sharply. "Because--" The words stopped. I felt it at the same moment she did. The ripple and tremor. Like ... like some piece of the world shifted, like some off-kilter chord had been plucked. We turned toward the illuminated path that we'd just taken through the stacks, then to the dark far, far beyond. The faelights along the ceiling began to sputter and die. One by one. Closer and closer to us. I only had an Illyrian knife at my side. "What is that," Nesta breathed. "Run," was all I said. I didn't give her the chance to object as I grabbed her by the elbow and sprinted into the stacks ahead. Faelights flickered to life as we passed--only to be devoured by the dark surging for us. Slow--y sister was so damned slow with her dress, her general lack of exercising-- Rhys. Nothing. If the wards around the Prison were thick enough to keep out communication ... Perhaps the same applied here. A wall approached--with a hall before it. A second slope: left rising, right plunging down-- Darkness slithered down from above. But the inky gloom leading deeper ... fresh and open. I went right. "Faster," I said to her. If we could lead whoever it was deep, perhaps we could cut back, right to the pit. I could winnow-- Winnow. I could winnow now-- I grabbed for Nesta's arm. Right as the darkness behind us paused, and two High Fae stepped out of it. Both male. One dark-haired, one light. Both in gray jackets embroidered with bone-white thread. I knew their coat of arms on the upper right shoulder. Knew their dead eyes. Hybern. Hybern was here-- I didn't move fast enough as one of them blew out a breath toward us. As that blue faebane dust sprayed into my eyes, my mouth, and my magic died out. Nesta's gasp told me she felt something similar. But it was on my sister that the two focused as I staggered back, tears streaming the dust from my eyes, spitting out the faebane. I gripped her arm, trying to winnow. Nothing. Behind them, a hooded priestess slumped to the ground. "So easy to get into their minds once our master let us through the wards," said one of them--the dark-haired male. "To make them think we were scholars. We'd planned to come for you ... But it seems you found us first." All spoken to my sister. Nesta's face was near-white, though her eyes showed no fear. "Who are you." The white-haired one smiled broadly as they approached. "We're the king's Ravens. His far-flying eyes and talons. And we've come to take you back." The king--their master. He'd ... Mother above. Was the king here--in Velaris? Rhys. I slammed a mental hand into the bond. Over and over. Rhys. Nothing. Nesta's breath began to come quickly. Swords hung at their sides--two apiece. Their shoulders were broad, arms wide enough to indicate muscle filled those fine clothes. "Youre not taking her anywhere," I said, palming my knife. How had the king done it--arrived here unnoted, and fractured our wards? And if he was in Velaris ... I shoved down my terror at the thought. At what he might be doing beyond this library, unseen and hidden-- "You're an unexpected prize, too," the black-haired one said to me. "But your sister ..." A smile that showed all of his too-white teeth. "You took something from that Cauldron, girl. The king wants it back." That was why the Cauldron couldn't shatter the wall. Not because its power was spent. But because Nesta had stolen too much of it. <|title|>Chapter 31 <|startofchapter|>I laid my options before me. I doubted the king's Ravens were stupid enough to be kept talking long enough for my powers to return. And if the king was indeed here ... I had to warn everyone. Immediately. It left me with three choices. Take them on in hand-to-hand combat with only a knife, when they were each armed with twin blades and were muscled enough to know how to use them. Make a run for it, and try to get out of the library--and risk the lives and further trauma of the priestesses in the levels above. Or... Nesta was saying to them, "If he wants what I took, he can come get it himself." "He's too busy to bother," the white-haired male purred, advancing another step. "Apparently you're not." I gripped Nesta's fingers in my free hand. She glanced at me. I need you to trust me, I tried to convey to her. Nesta read the emotion in my eyes--and gave the barest dip of her chin. I said to them, "You made a grave mistake coming here. To my house." They sniggered. I gave them a returning smirk as I said, "And I hope it rips you into bloody ribbons." Then I ran, hauling Nesta with me. Not toward the upper levels. But down. Down into the eternal blackness of the pit at the heart of the library. And into the arms of whatever lurked inside it. Around and down, around and down-- Shelves and paper and furniture and darkness, the smell turning musty and damp, the air thickening, the darkness like dew on my skin-- Nesta's breath was ragged, her skirts rustling with each sprinting step we took. Time--only a matter of time before one of those priestesses contacted Rhys. But even a minute might be too late. There was no choice. None. Faelights stopped appearing ahead. Low, hideous laughter trickled behind us. "Not so easy, is it --to find your way in the dark." "Don't stop," I panted to Nesta, flinging us farther into the dark. A high-pitched scratching sounded. Like talons on stone. One of the Ravens crooned, "Do you know what happened to them--the queens?" "Keep going," I breathed, gripping a hand against the wall to remain rooted. Soon--we'd reach the bottom soon, and then ... And then face some horror awful enough that Cassian wouldn't speak of it. The lesser of two evils--or the worse of them. "The youngest one--that pinched-faced bitch--went into the Cauldron first. Practically trampled the others to get in after it saw what it did to you and your sister." "Don't stop," I repeated as Nesta stumbled. "If I go down, you run." That was a choice that I did not need to debate. That did not frighten me. Not for a heartbeat. Stone screamed beneath twin sets of talons. "But the Cauldron ... Oh, it Anew that something had been taken from it. Not sentient, but ... it knew. It was furious. And when that young queen went in..." The Ravens laughed. Laughed as the slope leveled out and we found ourselves at the bottom of the library. "Oh, it gave her immortality. It made her Fae. But since something had been taken from it ... the Cauldron took what she valued most. Her youth." They sniggered again. "A young woman went in ... but a withered crone came out." And from the catacombs of my memory, Elain's voice sounded: I saw young hands wither with age. "The other queens won't go into the Cauldron for terror of the same happening now. And the youngest one ... Oh, you should hear how she talks, Nesta Archeron. The things she wants to do to you when Hybern is done ..." Twin ravens are coming. Elain had known. Sensed it. Had tried to warn us. There were ancient stacks down here. Or, at least I felt them as we bumped into countless hard edges in our blind sprint. Where was it, where was it-- Deeper into the dark, we ran. "We're growing bored of this pursuit," one of them said. "Our master is waiting for us to retrieve you." I snorted loudly enough for them to hear. "I'm shocked he could even muster the strength to break the wards--he seems to need a trove of magical objects to do his work for him." The other one hissed, talons scratching louder, "Whose spell book do you think Amarantha stole many decades ago? Who suggested the amusement of sticking the masks to Spring's faces as punishment? Another little spell, the one he burned through today--to crack through your wards here. Only once could it be wielded--such a pity." I studied the faint trickle of light I could make out--far away and high up. "Run toward the light," I breathed to Nesta. "I'll hold them off." "No." "Don't try to be noble, if that's what you're whispering about," one of the Ravens cawed from behind. "We'll catch you both anyway." We didn't have time--for whatever was down here to find us. We didn't have time-- "Run," I breathed. "Please." She hesitated. "Please," I begged her, my voice breaking. Nesta squeezed my hand once. And between one breath and the next, she bolted to the side --toward the center of the pit. The light high above. "What--" one of them snapped, but I struck. Every bone in my body barked in pain as I slammed into one of the stacks. Then again. Again. Until it teetered and fell, collapsing onto the one beside it. And the next. And the next. Blocking the way Nesta had gone. And any chance of my exit, too. Wood groaned and snapped, books thudded on stone. But ahead ... I clawed and patted the wall as I plunged farther into the pit floor. My magic was a husk in my veins. "We'll still catch her, don't worry," one of them crooned. "Wouldn't want dear sisters to be separated." Where are you where are you where are you I didn't see the wall in front of me. My teeth sang as I collided face-first. I patted blindly, feeling for a break, a corner-- The wall continued on. Dead end. If it was a dead end-- "Nowhere to go down here, Lady," one of them said. I kept moving, gritting my teeth, gauging the power still frozen inside me. Not even an ember to summon to light the way, to show where I was-- To show any holes ahead-- The terror of it had my bones locking up. No. No, keep moving, keep going-- I reached out, desperate for a bookshelf to grab. Surely they wouldn't put a shelf near a gaping hole in the earth-- Empty blackness met my fingers, slipped between them. Again and again. I stumbled a step. Leather met my fingers--solid leather. I fumbled, the hard spines of books meeting my palms, and bit down my sob of relief. A lifeline in a violent sea; I felt my way down the stack, running now. It ended too soon. I took another blind step forward, touched my way around a corner of another stack. Just as the Ravens hissed with displeasure. The sound said enough. They'd lost me--for a moment. I inched along, keeping my back to a shelf, calming my heaving lungs until my breaths became near-silent. "Please," I breathed into the dark, barely more than a whisper. "Please, help me." In the distance, a boom shuddered through the ancient floor. "High Lady of the Night Court," one of the Ravens sang. "What sort of cage shall our king build for you?" Fear would get me killed, fear would-- A soft voice whispered in my ear, You are the High Lady? The voice was both young and old, hideous and beautiful. "Y-yes," I whispered. I could sense no body heat, detect no physical presence, but ... I felt it behind me. Even with my back to the shelf, I felt the mass of it lurking behind me. Around me. Like a shroud. "We can smell you," the other Raven said. "How your mate shall rage when he's found we've taken you." "Please," I breathed to the thing crouched behind me, over me. What shall you give me? Such a dangerous question. Never make a bargain, Alis had once warned me before Under the Mountain. Even if the bargains I'd made ... they'd saved us. And brought me to Rhys. "What do you want?" One of the Ravens snapped, "Who is she talking to?" The stone and wind hear all, speak all. They whispered to me of your desire to wield the Carver. To trade. My breath came hard and fast. "What of it?" I knew him once--long ago. Before so many things crawled the earth. The Ravens were close--far too close when one of them hissed, "What is she mumbling?" "Does she know a spell, as the master did?" I whispered to the lurking dark behind me, "What is your price?" The Ravens' footsteps sounded so nearby they couldn't have been more than twenty feet away. "Who are you talking to?" one of them demanded. Company. Send me company. I opened my mouth, but then said, "To--eat?" A laugh that made my skin crawl. To tell me of life. The air ahead shifted--as the Hybern Ravens closed in. "There you are," one seethed. "It's a bargain," I breathed. The skin along my left forearm tingled. The thing behind me ... I could have sworn I felt it smile. Shall I kill them? "P-please do." Light sputtered before me, and I blinked at the blinding ball of faelight. I saw the twin Ravens first, that faelight at their shoulder-- to illuminate me for their taking. Their attention went to me. Then rose over my shoulder. My head. Absolute, unfiltered terror filled their faces. At what stood behind me. Close your eyes, the thing purred in my ear. I obeyed, trembling. Then all I heard was screaming. High-pitched shrieking and pleading. Bones snapping, blood splattering like rain, cloth ripping, and screaming, screaming, screaming-- I squeezed my eyes shut so hard it hurt. Squeezed them shut so hard I was shaking. Then there were warm, rough hands on me, dragging me away, and Cassian's voice at my ear, saying, "Don't look. Don't look." I didn't. I let him lead me away. Just as I felt Rhys arrive. Felt him land on the floor of the pit so hard the entire mountain shuddered. I opened my eyes then. Found him storming toward us, night rippling off him, such fury on his face-- "Get them out." The order was given to Cassian. The screaming was still erupting behind us. I lurched toward Rhys, but he was already gone, a plume of darkness spreading from him. To shield the view of what he walked into. Knowing I would look. The screaming stopped. In the terrible silence, Cassian hauled me out--toward the dim center of the pit. Nesta was standing there, arms around herself, eyes wide. Cassian only stretched out an arm for her. As if in a trance, she walked right to his side. His arms tightened around both of us, Siphons flaring, gilding the darkness with bloodred light. Then we launched skyward. Just as the screaming began anew. <|title|>Chapter 32 <|startofchapter|>Cassian gave us both a glass of brandy. A tall glass. Seated in an armchair in the family library high above, Nesta drank hers in one gulp. I claimed the chair across from her, took a sip, shuddered at the taste, and made to set it down on the low-lying table between us. "Keep drinking," Cassian ordered. The wrath wasn't toward me. No--it was toward whatever was below. What had happened. "Are you hurt?" Cassian asked me. Each word was clipped --brutal. I shook my head. That he didn't ask Nesta ... he must have found her first. Ascertained for himself. I started, "Is the king--the city--" "No sign of him." A muscle twitched in his jaw. We sat in silence. Until Rhys appeared between the open doors, shadows trailing in his wake. Blood coated his hands--but nothing else. So much blood, ruby-bright in the midmorning sun. Like he'd clawed through them with his bare hands. His eyes were wholly frozen with rage. But they dipped to my left arm, the sleeve filthy but still rolled up-- Like a slim band of black iron around my forearm, a tattoo now lay there. Its custom in my court for bargains to be permanently marked upon flesh, Rhys had told me Under the Mountain. "What did you give it." I hadn't heard that voice since that visit to the Court of Nightmares. "It--it said it wanted company. Someone to tell it about life. I said yes." "Did you volunteer yourself." "No." I drained the rest of the brandy at the tone, his frozen face. "It just said someone. And it didn't specify when." I grimaced at the solid black band, no thicker than the width of my finger, interrupted only by two slender gaps near the side of my forearm. I tried to stand, to go to him, to take those bloody hands. But my knees still wobbled enough that I couldn't move. "Are the king's Ravens dead?" "They nearly were when I arrived. It left enough of their minds functioning for me to have a look. And finish them when I was done." Cassian was stone-faced, glancing between Rhys's bloody hands and his ice-cold eyes. But it was to my sister that my mate turned. "Hybern hunts you because of what you took from the Cauldron. The queens want you dead for vengeance--for robbing them of immortality." "I know." Nesta's voice was hoarse. "What did you take." "I don't know." The words were barely more than a whisper. "Even Amren can't figure it out." Rhys stared her down. But Nesta looked to me--and I could have sworn fear shone there, and guilt and ... some other feeling. "You told me to run." "You're my sister," was all I said. She'd once tried to cross the wall to save me. But she started. "Elain--" "Elain is fine," Rhys said. "Azriel was at the town house. Lucien is headed back, and Mor is nearly there. They know of the threat." Nesta leaned her head back against the armchair's cushion, going a bit boneless. I said to Rhys, "Hybern infiltrated our city. Again." "The prick held on to that fleeting spell until he really needed it." "Fleeting spell?" "A spell of mighty power, able to be wielded only once--to great effect. One capable of cleaving wards ... He must have been biding his time." "Are the wards here--" "Amren is currently adapting them against such things. And will then begin combing through this city to find if the king also deposited any other cronies before he vanished." Beneath the cold rage, there was a sharpness--honed enough that I said, What's wrong? "What's wrong?" he replied--verbally, as if he could no longer distinguish between the two. "What's wrong is that those pieces of shit got into my house and attacked my mate. What's wrong is that my own damn wards worked against me, and you had to make a bargain with that thing to keep yourself from being taken. What's wrong--" "Calm down," I said quietly, but not weakly. His eyes glowed, like lightning had struck an ocean. But he inhaled deeply, blowing out the breath through his nose, and his shoulders loosened--barely. "Did you see what it was--that thing down there?" "I guessed enough about it to close my eyes," he said. "I only opened them when it had stepped away from their bodies." Cassian's skin had turned ashen. He'd seen it. He'd seen it again. But he said nothing. "Yes, the king got past our defenses," I said to Rhys. "Yes, things went badly. But we weren't hurt. And the Ravens revealed some key pieces of information." Sloppy, I realized. Rhys had been sloppy in killing them. Normally, he would have kept them alive for Azriel to question. But he'd taken what he needed, quickly and brutally, and ended it. He'd shown more restraint about the Attor-- "We know why the Cauldron doesn't work at its full strength now," I went on. "We know that Nesta is more of a priority for the king than I am." Rhys mulled it over. "Hybern showed part of his hand, in bringing them here. He has to have a sliver of doubt of his conquest if he'd risk it." Nesta looked like she was going to be sick. Cassian wordlessly refilled her glass. But I asked, "How--how did you know that we were in trouble?" "Clotho," Rhys said. "There's a spelled bell inside the library. She rang it, and it went out to all of us. Cassian got there first." I wondered what had happened in those initial moments, when he'd found my sister. As if he'd read my thoughts, Rhys sent the image to me, no doubt courtesy of Cassian. Panic--and rage. That was all he knew as he shot down into the heart of the pit, spearing for that ancient darkness that had once shaken him to his very marrow. Nesta was there--and Feyre. It was the former he saw first, stumbling out of the dark, wide-eyed, her fear a tang that whetted his rage into something so sharp he could barely think, barely breathe-- She let out a small, animal sound--like some wounded stag --as she saw him. As he landed so hard his knees popped. He said nothing as Nesta launched herself toward him, her dress filthy and disheveled, her arms stretching for him. He opened his own for her, unable to stop his approach, his reaching-- She gripped his leathers instead. " Feyre," she rasped, pointing behind her with a free hand, shaking him solidly with the other. Strength--such untapped strength in that slim, beautiful body. "Hybern."' That was all he needed to hear. He drew his sword--then Rhys was arrowing for them, his power like a gods-damned volcanic eruption. Cassian charged ahead into the gloom, following the screaming-- I pulled away, not wanting to see any further. See what Cassian had witnessed down there. Rhys strode to me, and lifted a hand to brush my hair--but stopped upon seeing the blood crusting his fingers. He instead studied the tattoo now marring my left arm. "As long as we don't have to invite it to solstice dinner, I can live with it." "You can live with it?" I lifted my brows. A ghost of a smile, even with all that had happened, that now lay before us. "At least now if one of you misbehaves, I know the perfect punishment. Going down there to talk to that thing for an hour." Nesta scowled with distaste, but Cassian let out a dark laugh. "Dll take scrubbing toilets, thank you." "Your second encounter seemed less harrowing than the first." "It wasn't trying to eat me this time." But shadows still darkened his eyes. Rhys saw them, too. Saw them and said quietly, again with that High Lord's voice, "Warn whoever needs to know to stay indoors tonight. Children off the streets at sundown, none of the Palaces will remain open past moonrise. Anyone on the streets faces the consequences." "Of what?" I asked, the liquor in my stomach now burning. Rhys's jaw tightened, and he surveyed the sparkling city beyond the windows. "Of Amren on the hunt." Elain was nestled beside a too-casual Mor on the sitting room couch when we arrived at the town house. Nesta strode past me, right to Elain, and took up a seat on her other side, before turning her attention to where we remained in the foyer. Waiting--somehow sensing the meeting that was about to unfold. Lucien, stationed by the front window, turned from watching the street. Monitoring it. A sword and dagger hung from his belt. No humor, no warmth graced his face--only fierce, grim determination. "Azriel's coming down from the roof," Rhys said to none of us in particular, leaning against the archway into the sitting room and crossing his arms. And as if he'd summoned him, Azriel stepped out of a pocket of shadow by the stairs and scanned us from head to toe. His eyes lingered on the blood crusting Rhys's hands. I took up a spot at the opposite doorway post while Cassian and Azriel remained between us. Rhys was quiet for a moment before he said, "The priestesses will keep silent about what happened today. And the people of this city won't learn why Amren is now preparing to hunt. We can't afford to let the other High Lords know. It would unnerve them--and destabilize the image we have worked so hard to create." "The attack on Velaris," Mor countered from her place on the couch, "already showed we're vulnerable." "That was a surprise attack, which we handled quickly," Cassian said, Siphons flickering. "Az made sure the information came out portraying us as victors--able to defeat any challenge Hybern throws our way." "We did that today," I said. "It's different," Rhys said. "The first time, we had the element of their surprise to excuse us. This second time ... it makes us look unprepared. Vulnerable. We can't risk that getting out before the meeting in ten days. So for all appearances, we will remain unruffled as we prepare for war." Mor sagged against the couch cushions. "A war where we have no allies beyond Keir, either in Prythian or beyond it." Rhys gave her a sharp look. But Elain said quietly, "The queen might come." Silence. Elain was staring at the unlit fireplace, eyes lost to that vague murkiness. "What queen," Nesta said, more tightly than she usually spoke to our sister. "The one who was cursed." "Cursed by the Cauldron," I clarified to Nesta, pushing off the archway. "When it threw its tantrum after you ... left." "No." Elain studied me, then her. "Not that one. The other." Nesta took a steadying breath, opening her mouth to either whisk Elain upstairs or move on. But Azriel asked softly, taking a single step over the threshold and into the sitting room, "What other?" Elain's brows twitched toward each other. "The queen-- with the feathers of flame." The shadowsinger angled his head. Lucien murmured to me, eye still fixed on Elain, "Should we--does she need ...?" "She doesn't need anything," Azriel answered without so much as looking at Lucien. Elain was staring at the spymaster now--unblinkingly. "We're the ones who need ..." Azriel trailed off. "A seer," he said, more to himself than us. "The Cauldron made you a seer." <|title|>Chapter 33: Seer <|startofchapter|>The word clanged through me. She'd known. She'd warned Nesta about the Ravens. And in the chaos of the attack, that little realization had slipped from me. Slipped from me as reality and dream slipped and entwined for Elain. Seer. Elain turned to Mor, who was now gaping at my sister from her spot beside her on the couch. "Is that what this is?" And the words, the tone ... they were so normal-sounding that my chest tightened. Mor's gaze darted across my sister's face, as if weighing the words, the question, the truth or lie within. Mor at last blinked, mouth parting. Like that magic of hers had at last solved some puzzle. Slowly, clearly, she nodded. Lucien silently slid into one of the chairs, before the window, that metal eye whirring as it roved over my sister. It made sense, I supposed, that Azriel alone had listened to her. The male who heard things others could not ... Perhaps he, too, had suffered as Elain had before he understood what gift he possessed. He asked Elain, "There is another queen?" Elain squinted, as if the question required some inner clarification, some ... path into looking the right way at whatever had addled and plagued her. "Yes." "The sixth queen," Mor breathed. "The queen who the golden one said wasn't ill ..." "She said not to trust the other queens because of it," I added. And as soon as the words left my mouth ... It was like stepping back from a painting to see the entire picture. Up close, the words had been muddled and messy. But from a distance ... "You stole from the Cauldron," I said to Nesta, who seemed ready to jump between all of us and Elain. "But what if the Cauldron gave something to Elain?" Nesta's face drained of color. "What?" Equally ashen, Lucien seemed inclined to echo Nesta's hoarse question. But Azriel nodded. "You knew," he said to Elain. "About the young queen turning into a crone." Elain blinked and blinked, eyes clearing again. As if the understanding, our understanding ... it freed her from whatever murky realm she'd been in. "The sixth queen is alive?" Azriel asked, calm and steady, the voice of the High Lord's spymaster, who had broken enemies and charmed allies. Elain cocked her head, as if listening to some inner voice. "Yes." Lucien just stared and stared at my sister, as if he'd never seen her before. I whipped my face to Rhys. A potential ally? I don't know, he answered. If the others cursed her ... "What sort of curse?" my mate asked before he'd even finished speaking to me. Elain shifted her face toward him. Another blink. "They sold her--to ... to some darkness, to some ... sorcerer-lord ..." She shook her head. "I can never see him. What he is. There is an onyx box that he possesses, more vital than anything ... save for them. The girls. He keeps other girls-- others so like her--but she ... By day, she is one form, by night, human again." "A bird of burning feathers," I said. "Firebird by day," Rhys mused, "woman by night ... So she's held captive by this sorcerer-lord?" Elain shook her head. "I don't know. I hear her--her screaming. With rage. Utter rage ..." She shuddered. Mor leaned forward. "Do you know why the other queens cursed her--sold her to him?" Elain studied the table. "No. No--that is all mist and shadow." Rhys blew out a breath. "Can you sense where she is?" "There is ... a lake. Deep in--in the continent, I think. Hidden amongst mountains and ancient forests." Elain's throat bobbed. "He keeps them all at the lake." "Other women like her?" "Yes--and no. Their feathers are white as snow. They glide across the water--while she rages through the skies above it." Mor said to Rhys, "What information do we have on this sixth queen?" "Little," Azriel answered for him. "We know little. Young --somewhere in her mid-twenties. Scythia lies along the wall, to the east. It's smallest amongst the human queens' realms, but rich in trade and arms. She goes by Vassa, but I never got a report with her full name." Rhys considered. "She must have posed a considerable threat to the queens if they turned on her. And considering their agenda ..." "If we can find Vassa," I cut in, "she could be vital in convincing the human forces to fight. And giving us an ally on the continent." "If we can find her," Cassian countered, stepping up to Azriel's side, his wings flaring slightly. "It could take months. Not to mention, facing the male who holds her captive could be harder than expected. We can't afford all those potential risks. Or the time it'd take. We should focus on this meeting with the other High Lords first." "But we could stand to gain much," Mor said. "Perhaps she has an army--" "Perhaps she does," Cassian cut her off. "But if she's cursed, who will lead it? And if her kingdom is so far away ... they have to travel the mortal way, too. You remember how slowly they moved, how quickly they died--" "It's worth a try," Mor sniped. "You're needed here," Cassian said. Azriel looked inclined to agree, even as he kept quiet. "I need you on a battlefield-- not traipsing through the continent. The Human half of it. If those queens have rallied armies to offer Hybern, they're no doubt standing between you and Queen Vassa." "You don't give me orders--" "No, but I do," Rhys said. "Don't give me that look. He's right--we need you here, Mor." "Scythia," Mor said, shaking her head. "I remember them. They're horse people. A mounted cavalry could travel far faster--" "No." Sheer will blazed in Rhys's eyes. The order was final. But Mor tried again. "There is a reason why Elain is seeing these things. She was right about the other queen turning old, about the Ravens' attack--why is she being sent this image? Why is she hearing this queen? It must be vital. If we ignore it, perhaps we'll deserve to fail." Silence. I surveyed them all. Vital. Each of them was vital here. But me ... I sucked in a breath. "I'll go." Lucien was staring at Elain as he spoke. We all looked at him. Lucien shifted his focus to Rhys, to me. "I'll go," he repeated, rising to his feet. "To find this sixth queen." Mor opened and shut her mouth. "What makes you think you could find her?" Rhys asked. Not rudely, but--from a commander's perspective. Sizing up the skills Lucien offered against the risks, the potential benefits. "This eye ..." Lucien gestured to the metal contraption. "It can see things that others ... can't. Spells, glamours ... Perhaps it can help me find her. And break her curse." He glanced at Elain, who was again studying her lap. "I'm not needed here. I'll fight if you need me to, but ..." He offered me a grim smile. "I do not belong in the Autumn Court. And I'm willing to bet m no longer welcome at h--the Spring Court." Home, he had almost said. "But I cannot sit here and do nothing. Those queens with their armies--there is a threat in that regard, too. So use me. Send me. I will find Vassa, see if she can ... bring help." "You will be going into the human territory," Rhys warned. "I can't spare a force to guard you--" "I don't need one. I travel faster on my own." His chin lifted. "I will find her. And if there's an army to bring back, or at least some way for her own story to sway the human forces ... I'll find a way to do that, too." My friends glanced to each other. Mor said, "It will be-- very dangerous." A half smile curved Lucien's mouth. "Good. It'd be boring otherwise." Only Cassian returned the grin. "I'll load you up with some Illyrian steel." Elain now watched Lucien warily. Blinking every now and then. She revealed no hint of whatever she might be seeing-- sensing. None. Rhys pushed off the archway. "I'll winnow you as close as we can get--to wherever you need to be to begin your hunt." Lucien had indeed been studying all those maps lately. Perhaps at the quiet behest of whatever force had guided us all. My mate added, "Thank you." Lucien shrugged. And it was that gesture alone that made me say at last, "Are you sure?" He only glanced at Elain, whose face was again a calm void while she traced a finger over the embroidery on the couch cushions. "Yes. Let me help in whatever way I can." Even Nesta seemed relatively concerned. Not for him, no doubt, but the fact that if he were hurt, or killed ... What would it do to Elain? The severing of the mating bond ... I shut out the thought of what it'd do to me. I asked Lucien, "When do you want to leave?" "Tomorrow." I hadn't heard him sound so assertive in ... a long time. "I'll prepare for the rest of today, and leave after breakfast tomorrow morning." He added to Rhys, "If that works for you." My mate waved an idle hand. "For what you're about to do, Lucien, we'll make it work." Silence fell once more. If he could find that missing queen and perhaps bring back some sort of human army, or at least sway the mortal forces from Hybern's thrall ... If I could find a way to get the Carver to fight for us that did not involve using that terrible mirror ... Would it be enough? The meeting with the High Lords, it seemed, would decide that. Rhys jerked his chin at Azriel, who took it as an order to vanish--to no doubt check in on Amren. "Find out if Keir and his Darkbringers had any attacks," my mate ordered Mor and Cassian, who nodded and left as well. Alone with my sisters and Lucien, Rhys and I caught Nesta's eye. And for once, my sister rose to her feet and came toward us, the three of us not so subtly heading upstairs. Leaving Lucien and Elain alone. It was an effort not to linger atop the landing, to listen to what was said. If anything was said at all. But I made myself take Rhys's hand, flinching at the blood still caked on his skin, and led him to our bathing room. Nesta's bedroom door clicked shut down the hall. Rhys wordlessly watched me as I turned on the bathtub faucet and grabbed a washcloth from the chest against the wall. I took up a seat at the edge of the tub, testing the water temperature against my wrist, and patted the porcelain rim beside me. "Sit." He obeyed, his head drooping as he sat. I took one of his hands, guided it to the gurgling stream of water, and held it beneath. Red flowed off his skin, eddying in the water beneath. I plucked up the cloth and scrubbed gently, more blood flaking off, water splashing onto the still-immaculate sleeves of his jacket. "Why not shield your hands?" "I wanted to feel it--their lives ending beneath my fingers." Cold, flat words. I scrubbed at his nails, the blood wedged into the cracks where it met his skin. The arcs beneath. "Why is it different this time?" Different from the Attor's ambush, Hybern's attack in the woods, the attack on Velaris ... all of it. I'd seen him in a rage before, but never ... never so detached. As if morality and kindness were things that lurked on a surface far, far above the frozen depths he'd plunged into. I turned his palm into the spray, getting at the space between his fingers. "What is the point of it," he said, "of all this power ... if I can't protect those who are most vulnerable in my city? If it can't detect an incoming attack?" "Even Azriel didn't learn of it--" "The king used an archaic spell and walked in the front door. If I can't ..." Rhys shook his head, and I lowered his now-clean hand and reached for the other. More blood stained the water. "If I can't protect them here ... How can ..." His throat bobbed. I lifted his chin with a hand. Icy rage had slipped into something a bit shattered and aching. "Those priestesses have endured enough. I failed them today. That library ... it will no longer feel safe for them. The one place they've had to themselves, where they knew they were protected ... Hybern took that away today." And from him. He had gone to that library for his own need for healing--for safety. He said, "Perhaps it's punishment for taking away Velaris from Mor--in granting Keir access here." "You can't think like that--it won't end well." I finished washing his other hand, rinsed the cloth, then began swiping it along his neck, his temples ... Soothing, warm presses, not to clean but to relax. "I'm not angry about the bargain," he said, closing his eyes as I swiped the cloth over his brow. "In case you were ... worried." "I wasn't." Rhys opened his eyes, as if he could hear the smile in my voice, and studied me while I chucked the cloth into the tub with a wet slap and turned off the faucet. He was still studying me when I took his face in my damp hands. "What happened today was not your fault," I said, the words filling the sun-drenched bathing room. "None of it. It all lies on Hybern--and when we face the king again, we will remember these attacks, these injuries to our people. We forgot Amarantha's spell book--to our own loss. But we have a Book of our own--hopefully with the spell we need. And for now for now, we will prepare, and we will face the consequences. For now, we move ahead." He turned his head to kiss my palm. "Remind me to give you a salary raise." I choked on a cough. "For what?" "For the sage counsel--and the other vital services you provide me." He winked. I laughed in earnest, and squeezed his face as I pressed a swift kiss to his mouth. "Shameless flirt." The warmth returned to his eyes at last. So I reached for an ivory towel and bundled his hands, now clean and warm, into the folds of soft fabric. <|title|>Chapter 34 <|startofchapter|>Amren found no other Hybern assassins or spies during her long night of hunting through Velaris. How she sought them, how she distinguished friend from foe ... Some people, Mor told me the next morning--after we all had a sleepless night-- painted their thresholds in lamb's blood. A sort of offering to her. And payment to stay away. Some left cups of it on their doorsteps. As if everyone in the city knew that the High Lord's Second, that small-boned female ... she was the monster that defended them from the other horrors of the world. Rhys had spent much of the previous day and night reassuring the priestesses of their safety, walking them through the new wards. The priestess who had let them in ... for whatever reason, Hybern had left her alive. She allowed Rhys into her mind to see what had happened: once the king had sundered the wards with that fleeting spell, his Ravens had appeared as two old scholars to get the priestess to open the door, then forced their way into her mind so that she'd welcome them in without being vetted. The violation of that alone ... Rhys had spent hours with those priestesses yesterday. Mor, too. Talking, listening to the ones who could speak, holding the hands of the ones who couldn't. And when they at last left ... There was a peace between my mate and his cousin. Some lingering jagged edge that had somehow been soothed. We didn't have long. I knew that. Felt it with every breath. Hybern wasn't coming; Hybern was here. Our meeting with the High Lords was now over a week away--and still Nesta refused to join us. But it was fine. We'd manage. I'd manage. We didn't have another choice. Which was why I found myself standing in the foyer the next morning, watching Lucien shoulder his heavy pack. He wore Illyrian leathers under a heavier jacket, along with layers of clothes beneath to help him survive in varying climates. He'd braided back his red hair, the length of it snaking across his back--tright in front of the Illyrian sword strapped down his spine. Cassian had given him free rein yesterday afternoon to loot his personal cache of weapons, though my friend had been economical about which ones he'd selected. The blade, plus a short sword, plus an assortment of daggers. A quiver of arrows and an unstrung bow were tied to his pack. "You know precisely where you want Rhys to take you?" I asked at last. Lucien nodded, glancing to where my mate now waited by the front door. He'd bring Lucien to the edge of the human continent--to wherever Lucien had decided would be the best landing spot. No farther, Azriel had insisted. His reports indicated it was too watched, too dangerous. Even for one of our own. Even for the most powerful High Lord in history. I stepped forward, and didn't give Lucien time to step back as I hugged him tightly. "Thank you," I said, trying not to think about all the steel on him--if he'd need to use it. "It was time," Lucien said quietly, giving me a squeeze. "For me to do something." I pulled away, surveying his scarred face. "Thank you," I said again. It was all I could think of to say. Rhys extended a hand to Lucien. Lucien studied it--then my mate's face. I could nearly see all the hateful words they'd spoken. Dangling between them, between that outstretched hand and Lucien's own. But Lucien took Rhys's hand. That silent offer of not only transportation. Before that dark wind swept in, Lucien looked back. Not to me, I realized--to someone behind me. Pale and thin, Elain stood atop the stairs. Their gazes locked and held. But Elain said nothing. Did not so much as take one step downward. Lucien inclined his head in a bow, the movement hiding the gleam in his eye--the longing and sadness. And when Lucien turned to signal to Rhys to go ... He did not glance back at Elain. Did not see the half step she took toward the stairs--as if she'd speak to him. Stop him. Then Rhys was gone, and Lucien with him. When I turned to offer Elain breakfast, she'd already walked away. I waited in the foyer for Rhys to return. In the dining room to my left, Nesta silently practiced building those invisible walls in her mind--no sign of Amren since her hunt last night. When I asked if she was making any progress, my sister had only said, "Amren thinks I'm getting close enough to begin trying on something tangible." And that was that. I left her to it, not bothering to ask if Amren had also come close to figuring out some sort of spell in the Book to repair that wall. In silence, I counted the minutes, one by one. Then a familiar dark wind swirled through the foyer, and I loosed a too-tight breath as Rhys appeared in the middle of the hall carpet. No indication of any sort of trouble, no sign of hurt or harm, but I slid my arms around his waist, needing to feel him, smell him. "Did everything go well?" Rhys brushed a kiss to the top of my head. "As well as can be expected. He's now on the continent, heading eastward." He marked Nesta studying at the dining table. "How's our new seer holding up?" I pulled back to explain that I'd left Elain to her own thoughts, but Nesta said, "Don't call her that." Rhys gave me an incredulous look, but Nesta just went back to flipping through a book, her face going vacant--while she practiced with whatever wall-building exercises Amren had ordered. I poked him in the ribs. Don't provoke her. A corner of his mouth lifted--the expression full of wicked delight. Can I provoke you instead? I clamped my lips to keep from smiling-- The front door blew open and Amren stormed in. Rhys was instantly facing her. "What." Gone was the slick amusement, the relaxed posture. Amren's pale face remained calm, but her eyes ... They swirled with rage. "Hybern has attacked the Summer Court. They lay siege to Adriata as we speak." <|title|>Chapter 35 <|startofchapter|>Hybern had made its grand move at last. And we had not anticipated it. I knew Azriel would take the blame upon himself. One look at the shadowsinger as he prowled through the front door of the town house minutes later, Cassian on his heels, told me that he already did. We stood in the foyer, Nesta lingering at the dining table behind me. "Has Tarquin called for aid?" Cassian asked Amren. None of us dared question how she knew. Amren's jaw tightened. "I don't know. I got the message, and--nothing else." Cassian nodded once and turned to Rhys. "Did the Summer Court have a mobile fighting force readied when you were there?" "No," Rhys said. "His armada was scattered along the coast." A glance at Azriel. "Half is in Adriata--the other dispersed," the shadowsinger supplied. "His terrestrial army was moved to the Spring Court border ... after Feyre. The closest legion is perhaps three days' march away. Very few can winnow." "How many ships?" Rhys asked. "Twenty in Adriata, fully armed." A calculating look at Amren. "Numbers on Hybern?" "I don't know. Many. It--I think they are overwhelmed." "What was the exact message?' Pure, unrelenting command laced every word. Amren's eyes glittered like fresh silver. "It was a warning. From Varian. To prepare our own defenses." Utter silence. "Prince Varian sent you a warning?" Cassian asked a bit quietly. Amren glared at him. "It is a thing that friends do." More silence. I met Rhys's stare, sensed the weight and dread and anger simmering behind the cool features. "We cannot leave Tarquin to face them alone," I said. Perhaps Hybern had sent the Ravens yesterday to distract us from looking beyond our own borders. To have our focus on Hybern, not our own shores. Rhys's attention cut to Cassian. "Keir and his Darkbringer army are nowhere near ready to march. How soon can the Illyrian legions fly?" a Hi Rhys immediately winnowed Cassian into the war-camps to give the orders himself. Azriel had vanished with them, going ahead to scout Adriata, taking his most trusted spies with him. Nausea had churned in my gut as Cassian and Azriel tapped the Siphons atop their hands and that scaled armor unfurled across their body. As seven Siphons appeared on each. As the shadowsinger's scarred hands checked the buckles on his knife belts and his quiver, while Rhys summoned extra Illyrian blades for Cassian--two at his back, one at each side. Then they were gone--stone-faced and steady. Ready for bloodshed. Mor arrived moments later, heavily armed, her hair braided back and every inch of her thrumming with impatience. But Mor and I waited--for the order to go. To join them. Cassian had positioned the Illyrian legions closer to the southern border the weeks I'd been away, but even so, they wouldn't be able to fly without a few hours of preparation. And it would require Rhys to winnow them in. All of them. To Adriata. "Will you fight?" Nesta was now standing a few steps up the staircase of the town house, watching as Mor and I readied. Soon--Azriel or Rhys would contact us soon with the all-clear to winnow to Adriata. "We'll fight if it's required," I said, checking once more that the belt of knives was secure at my hips. Mor wore Illyrian leathers as well, but the blades on her were different. Slimmer, lighter, some of their tips slightly curved. Like lightning given flesh. Seraphim blades, she told me. Gifted to her by Prince Drakon himself during the War. "What do you know of battle?" I couldn't tell if my sister's tone was insulting or merely inquisitive. "We know plenty," Mor said tightly, arranging her long braid between the blades crossed over her back. Elain and Nesta would remain here, with Amren watching over them. And watching over Velaris, along with a small legion of Illyrians Cassian had ordered to camp in the mountains above the city. Mor had passed Amren on her way in, the small female apparently heading to the butcher to fill up on provisions before she'd return to stay here--for however long we'd be in Adriata. If we returned at all. I met Nesta's gaze again. Only wary distance greeted me. "We'll send word when we can." A rumble of midnight thunder brushed against the walls of my mind. A silent signal, speared over land and mountains. As if Rhys's concentration was now wholly focused elsewhere-- and he did not dare break it. My heart stumbled a beat. I gripped Mor's arm, the leather scales cutting into my palm. "They've arrived. Let's go." Mor turned to my sister, and I had never seen her seem so. warriorlike. I'd known it lurked beneath the surface, but here was the Morrigan. The female who had fought in the War. Who knew how to end lives with blade and magic. "It's nothing we can't handle," Mor said to Nesta with a cocky smile, and then we were gone. Black wind roared and tore at me, and I clung to Mor as she winnowed us through the courts, her breath a ragged beat in my ear-- Then blinding light and suffocating heat and screams and thunderous booming and metal on metal-- I swayed, bracing my feet apart as I blinked. As I took in my surroundings. Rhys and the Illyrians had already joined the fray. Mor had winnowed us to the barren top of one of the hills flanking the half-moon bay of Adriata, offering perfect views of the island-city in its center and the city on the mainland below. The waters of the bay were red. Smoke rose in gnarled black columns from buildings and foundering ships. People screamed, soldiers shouted-- So many. I had not anticipated the scope of how many soldiers there would be. On either side. I'd thought it would be neat lines. Not chaos everywhere. Not Illyrians in the skies above the city and the harbor, blasting their power and arrows into the Hybern army that rained hell upon the city. Ship after ship squatted toward the horizon, hemming either entrance to the bay. And in the bay "Those are Tarquin's ships," Mor said, her face taut as she pointed to the white sails colliding with terrible force against the gray sails of Hybern's fleet. Utterly outnumbered, and yet plumes of magic--water and wind and whips of vines--kept attacking any boat that neared. And those that broke through the magic faced soldiers armed with spears and bows and swords. And ahead of them, pushing against the fleet ... the Illyrian lines. So many. Rhys had winnowed them in--all of them. The drain on his power ... Mor's throat bobbed. "No one else has come," she murmured. "No other courts." No sign of Tamlin and the Spring Court on Hybern's side, either. A thunderous boom of dark power blasted into Hybern's fleet, scattering ships--but not many. As if ... "Rhys's power is either already nearly spent or ... they've got something working against it," I said. "More of that faebane?" "Hybern would be stupid not to use it." Her fingers curled and uncurled at her sides. Sweat beaded on her temple. "Mor?" "I knew it was coming," she murmured. "Another war, at some point. I knew battles would come for this war. But ... I forgot how terrible it is. The sounds. The smells." Indeed, even from the rocky outcropping so high above, it was ... overwhelming. The tang of blood, the pleading and screaming ... Getting into the midst of it ... Alis. Alis had left the Spring Court, fearing the hell I'd unleash there--only to come here. To this. I prayed she was not in the city proper, prayed she and her nephews were keeping safe. "We're to go to the palace," Mor said, squaring her shoulders. I hadn't dared break Rhysand's concentration by opening up a channel in the bond, but it seemed he was still capable of giving orders. "Soldiers have reached its northern side, and their defenses are surrounded." I nodded once, and Mor drew her slender, curving blade. It gleamed as brightly as Amren's eyes, that Seraphim steel. I unsheathed my Illyrian blade from across my back, the metal dark and ancient by comparison to the living silver flame in her hand. "We stick close--you don't get out of sight," Mor said, smoothly and precisely. "We don't go down a hall or stairwell without assessing first." I nodded again, at a loss for words. My heart beat at a gallop, my palms turning sweaty. Water--I wished I'd had some water. My mouth had gone bone-dry. "If you can't bring yourself to make the kill," she added without a hint of judgment, "then shield me from behind." "I can do it--the ... killing," I rasped. I'd done plenty of it that day in Velaris. Mor assessed the grip I maintained on my blade, the set of my shoulders. "Don't stop, and don't linger. We press forward until I say we retreat. Leave the wounded to the healers." None of them enjoyed this, I realized. My friends--they had gone to war and back and had not found it worthy of glorification, had not let its memory become rose-tinted in the centuries following. But they were willing to dive into its hell once again for the sake of Prythian. "Let's go," I said. Every moment we wasted here could spell someone's doom in that gleaming palace in the bay. Mor swallowed once and winnowed us into the palace. She must have visited a few times throughout the centuries, because she knew where to arrive. The middle levels of Tarquin's palace had been communal space between the lower floors that the servants and lesser faeries were shoved into and the shining residential quarters for the High Fae above. When I had last seen the vast greeting hall, the light had been clear and white, flitting off the seashell-encrusted walls, dancing along the running rivers built into the floor. The sea beyond the towering windows had been turquoise mottled with vibrant sapphire. Now that sea was choked with mighty ships and blood, the clear skies full of Illyrian warriors swooping down upon them in determined, unflinching lines. Thick metal shields glinted as the Illyrians dove and rose, emerging each time covered in blood. If they returned to the skies at all. But my task was here. This building. We scanned the floor, listening. Frantic murmurs echoed from the stairwells leading upward, along with heavy thudding. "They're barricading themselves into the upper levels," Mor observed as my brows narrowed. Leaving the lesser fae trapped below. With no aid. "Bastards," I breathed. The lesser fae did not have as much magic between them-- not in the way the High Fae did. "This way," Mor said, jerking her chin toward the descending stairs. "They're three levels down, and climbing. Fifty of them." A ship's worth. <|title|>Chapter 36 <|startofchapter|>The first and second kills were the hardest. I didn't waste physical strength on the cluster of five Hybern soldiers--High Fae, not Attor-like underlings--forcing their way into a barricaded room full of terrified servants. No, even as my body hesitated at the kills, my magic did not. The two soldiers nearest me had feeble shields. I tore through them with a sizzling wall of fire. Fire that then found its way down their throats and burned every inch of the way. And then sizzled through skin and tendon and bone and severed the heads from their bodies. Mor just killed the soldier nearest her with good old- fashioned beheading. She whirled, the soldier's head still falling, and sliced off the head of the one just nearing us. The fifth and final soldier stopped his assault on the battered door. Looked between us with flat, hate-bright eyes. "Do it, then," he said, his accent so like that of the Ravens. His thick sword rose, blood sliding down the groove of the fuller. Someone was sobbing in terror on the other side of that door. The soldier lunged for us, and Mor's blade flashed. But I struck first, an asp of pure water striking his face-- stunning him. Then shoving down his open mouth, his throat, up his nose. Sealing off any air. He slumped to the ground, clawing at his neck as if he'd free a passage for the water now drowning him. We left him without looking back, the grunting of his choking soon turning to silence. Mor slid me a sidelong glance. "Remind me not to get on your bad side." I appreciated the attempt at humor, but ... laughter was foreign. There was only the breath in my heaving lungs and the roiling of magic through my veins and the clear, unyielding crispness of my vision, assessing all. We found eight more in the midst of killing and hurting, a dormitory turned into Hybern's own sick pleasure hall. I did not care to linger on what they did, and only marked it so that I knew how fast and easily to kill. The ones merely slaughtering died fast. The others ... Mor and I lingered. Not much, but those deaths were slower. We left two of them alive--hurt and disarmed but alive-- for the surviving faeries to kill. I gave them two Illyrian knives to do it. The Hybern soldiers began screaming before we cleared the level. The hallway on the floor below was splattered in blood. The din was deafening. A dozen soldiers in the silver-and-blue armor of Tarquin's court battled against the bulk of the Hybern force, holding the corridor. They were nearly pushed back to the stairs we'd just exited, steadily overwhelmed by the solid numbers against them, the Hybern soldiers stepping over--stepping on--the bodies of the fallen Summer Court warriors. Tarquin's soldiers were flagging, even as they kept swinging, kept fighting. The closest one beheld us--opened his mouth to order us to run. But then he noted the armor, the blood on us and our blades. "Don't be afraid," Mor said--as I stretched out a hand and darkness fell. Soldiers on both sides shouted, scrambling back, armor clanging. But I shifted my eyes, made them night-seeing. As I had done in that Illyrian forest, when I had first drawn Hybern blood. Mor, I think, was born able to see in the darkness. We winnowed through the ebon-veiled corridor in short bursts. I could see their terror as I killed them. But they could not see me. Every time we appeared in front of Hybern soldiers, frantic in the impenetrable dark, their heads fell. One after another. Winnow; slash. Winnow; thump. Until there were none left, only the mounds of their bodies, the puddles of their blood. I banished the darkness from the corridor, finding the Summer Court soldiers panting and gaping. At us. At what we had done in a matter of a minute. I didn't look too long at the carnage. Mor didn't, either. "Where else?" was all I asked. We cleared the palace to its lowest levels. Then we took to the city streets, the steep hill leading down to the water rampant with Hybern soldiers. The morning sun rose higher, beating down on us, making our skin slick and swollen with sweat beneath our leathers. I stopped discerning the sweat on my palms from the blood coating it. I stopped being able to feel a great many things as we killed and killed, sometimes engaging in outright combat, sometimes with magic, sometimes earning our own bruises and small wounds. But the sun continued its arc across the sky, and the battle continued in the bay, the Illyrian lines battering the Hybern fleet from above while Tarquin's armada pushed from behind. Slowly, we purged the streets of Hybern soldiers. All I knew was the sun baking the blood coating my skin, the coppery tang of it clinging to my nostrils. We had just cleared a narrow street, Mor striding through the felled Hybern soldiers to make sure any survivors ... stopped surviving. I leaned against a blood-bathed stone wall just outside the shattered front window of a clothier, watching Mor's quicksilver blade rise and fall in lightning-bright flashes. Beyond us, all around us, the screams of the dying were like the never-ending pealing of the city's warning bells. Water--I needed water. If only to wash the blood from my mouth. Not my own blood, but that of the soldiers we'd cut down. Blood that had sprayed into my mouth, up my nose, into my eyes, when we'd ended them. Mor reached the last of the dead, and terrified High Fae and faeries finally poked their heads out of the doorways and windows flanking the cobblestoned street. No sign of Alis, her nephews, or cousin--or anyone who looked like them, amongst the living or the fallen. A small blessing. We had to keep moving. There were more--so many more. As Mor began striding back to me, boots sloshing through puddles of blood, I reached a mental hand toward the bond. Toward Rhys--toward anything that was solid and familiar. Wind and darkness answered me. I became only half-aware of the narrow street and the blood and the sun as I peered down the bridge between us. Rhys. Nothing. I speared myself along it, stumbling blindly through that raging tempest of night and shadow. If the bond sometimes felt like a living band of light, it now had turned into a bridge of ice-kissed obsidian. And rising up on its other end ... his mind. The walls--his shields ... They had turned into a fortress. I laid a mental hand to the black adamant, my heart thundering. What was he facing--what was he seeing to have made his shields so impenetrable? I couldn't feel him on the other side. There was only the stone and the dark and the wind. Rhys. Mor had nearly reached me when his answer came. A crack in the shield--so swift that I did not have time to do anything more than lunge for it before it had closed behind me. Sealing me inside with him. The streets, the sun, the city vanished. There was only here--only him. And the battle. Looking through Rhysand's eyes as I once had that day Under the Mountain ... I felt the heat of the sun, the sweat and blood sliding down his face, slipping beneath the neck of his black Illyrian armor--smelled the brine of the sea and the tang of blood all around me. Felt the exhaustion ripping at him, in his muscles and in his magic. Felt the Hybern warship shudder beneath him as he landed on its main deck, an Illyrian blade in each hand. Six soldiers died instantly, their armor and bodies turning into red-and-silver mist. The others halted, realizing who'd landed amongst them, in the heart of their fleet. Slowly, Rhys surveyed the helmeted heads before him, counted the weapons. Not that it mattered. All of them would soon be crimson mist or food for the beasts circling the waters around the clashing armada. And then this ship would be splinters on the waves. Once he was done. It was not the common foot soldiers he'd sought out. Because where power should have been thrumming from him, obliterating them ... It was a muffled rumble. Stifled. He'd tracked it here--that strange damper on his power, on the Siphons' power. As if some sort of spell had turned his power oily in his grip. Harder to wield. It was why the battle had gone on so long. The clean, precise blow he'd intended to land upon arriving--the single shot that would have saved so many lives ... It had slipped from his grasp. So he'd hunted it down, that damper. Battled his way across Adriata to get to this ship. And now, exhaustion starting to rip at him ... The armed soldiers around Rhysand parted--and he appeared. Trapped within Rhysand's mind, his powers stifled and body weary, there was nothing I could do but watch as the King of Hybern stepped from belowdecks and smiled at my mate. <|title|>Chapter 37 <|startofchapter|>Blood slid from the tips of Rhys's twin blades onto the deck. One drop--two. Three. Mother above. The king-- The King of Hybern wore his own colors: slate gray, embroidered with bone-colored thread. Not a weapon on him. Not a speckle of blood. Within Rhys's mind, there was no jagged breath for me to take, no heartbeat to thunder in my chest. There was nothing I could do but watch--watch and keep quiet, so I didn't distract him, didn't risk taking his focus away for one blink ... Rhys met the king's dark eyes, bright beneath heavy brows, and smiled. "Glad to see you're still not fighting your own battles." The king's answering smile was a brutal slash of white. "I was waiting for more interesting quarry to find me." His voice was colder than the highest peak of the Illyrian mountains. Rhys didn't dare look away from him. Not as his magic unfurled, sniffing out every angle to kill the king. A trap--it had been a trap to discover which High Lord hunted down the source of that damper first. Rhys had known one of them--the king, his cronies-- would be waiting here. He'd known, and come. Known and not asked us to help him-- If I was smart, Rhys said to me, his voice calm and steady, I'd find some way to take him alive, make Azriel break him-- get him to yield the Cauldron. And make an example of him to the other bastards thinking of bringing down that wall. Don't, I begged him. Just kill him--kill him and be done with it, Rhys. End this war before it can truly begin. A pause of consideration. But a death here, quick and brutal ... His followers would turn it against me, no doubt. If he could manage it. The king had not been fighting. Had not depleted his reserves of power. But Rhys ... I felt Rhys size up the odds alongside me. Let one of us come to you. Don't face him alone-- Because trying to take the king alive without full access to his power ... Information rippled into me, brimming with all Rhys had seen and learned. Taking the king alive depended on whether Azriel was in good enough shape to help. He and Cassian had taken a few blows themselves, but--nothing they couldn't handle. Nothing to spook the Illyrians still fighting under their command. Yet. "Seems like the tide is turning," Rhys observed as the armada around them indeed pushed Hybern's forces out to sea. He had not seen Tarquin. Or Varian and Cresseida. But the Summer Court still fought. Still pushed Hybern back, back, back from the harbor. Time. Rhys needed time-- Rhys lunged toward the king's mind--and met nothing. Not a trace, not a whisper. As if he were nothing but wicked thought and ancient malice-- The king clicked his tongue. "I'd heard that you were a charmer, Rhysand. Yet here you are, groping and pawing at me like a green youth." A corner of Rhys's mouth twitched up. "Always a delight to disappoint Hybern." "Oh, on the contrary," the king said, crossing his arms-- muscle shifting beneath. "You've always been such a source of entertainment. Especially for my darling Amarantha." I felt it--the thought that escaped Rhys. He wanted to wipe that name from living memory. Perhaps one day he would. One day he'd erase it from every mind in this world, one by one, until she was no one and nothing. But the king knew that. From that smile, he knew. And everything he had done ... All of it ... Kill him, Rhys. Kill him and be done with it. It's not that easy, was his even reply. Not without searching this ship, searching him for that source of the spell on our power, and breaking it. But if he lingered much longer ... I had no doubt the king had some nasty surprise waiting. Designed to spring shut at any moment. I knew Rhys was aware of it, too. Knew, because he rallied his magic, assessing and weighing, an asp readying to strike. "The last report I received from Amarantha," the king went on, sliding his hands into his pockets, "she was still enjoying you." The soldiers laughed. My mate was used to it--that laughter. Even if it made me want to roar at them, rend them to pieces. But Rhys didn't so much as grit his teeth, though the king gave him a smile that told me he was well aware of what sort of scars lingered. What my mate had done to keep Amarantha distracted. Why he'd done it. Rhys smirked. "Too bad it didn't end so pleasantly for her." His magic slithered through the ship, hunting down that tether for the power holding back our forces ... Kill him--Kkill him now. The word was a chant in my blood, my mind. In his, too. I could hear it, clear as my own thoughts. "Such a remarkable girl--your mate," the king mused. No emotion, not so much as a bit of anger beyond that cold amusement. "First Amarantha, then my pet, the Attor ... And then she broke past all the wards around my palace to aid your escape. Not to mention ..." A low laugh. "My niece and nephew." Rage--that was rage starting to blacken in his eyes. "She savaged Dagdan and Brannagh--and for what reason?" "Perhaps you should ask Tamlin." Rhys raised a brow. "Where is he, by the way?" "Tamlin." Hybern savored the name, the sound of it. "He has plans for you, after what you and your mate did to him. His court. What a mess for him to clean up--though she certainly made it easier for me to plant more of my troops in his lands." Mother above--Mother above, I'd done that-- "She'll be happy to hear that." Too long. Rhys had lingered too long, and facing him now .. Fight or run. Run or fight. "Where did her gifts come from, I wonder? Or who?" The king knew. What I was. What I possessed. "I'm a lucky male to have her as my mate." The king smiled again. "For the little time you have remaining." I could have sworn Rhys blocked out the words. The king went on casually, "It will take everything, you know. To try to stop me. Everything you have. And it still won't be enough. And when you have given everything and you are dead, Rhysand, when your mate is mourning over your corpse, I am going to take her." Rhys didn't let a flicker of emotion show, sliding on that cool, amused mask over the roaring rage that surrounded me at the thought, the threat. That settled before me like a beast ready to lunge, to defend. "She defeated Amarantha and the Attor," Rhys countered. "I doubt you'll be much of an effort, either." "We'll see. Perhaps I'll give her to Tamlin when I'm done." Fury heated Rhys's blood. And my own. Strike or flee, Rhys, I begged again. But do it now. Rhys rallied his power, and I felt it rise within him, felt him grappling to sustain his grip on it. "The spell will wear off," the king said, waving a hand. "Another little trick I picked up while rotting away in Hybern." "I don't know what you're talking about," Rhys said mildly. They only smiled at each other. And then Rhys asked, "Why?" The king knew what he meant. "There was room at the table for everyone, you and your ilk claimed." The king snorted. "For humans, lesser faeries, for half-breeds. In this new world of yours, there was room at the table for everyone--so long as they thought like you. But the Loyalists ... How you delighted in shutting us out. Looking down your noses at us." He gestured to the soldiers monitoring them, the battle in the bay. "You want to know why? Because we suffered--when you stifled us, when you shut us out." Some of his soldiers grunted their agreement. "I have no interest in spending another five centuries seeing my people bow before human pigs--seeing them claw out a living while you shield and coddle those mortals, granting them our resources and wealth in exchange for nothing." He inclined his head. "So we shall reclaim what is ours. What was always ours, and will always be ours." Rhys offered him a sly grin. "You can certainly try." My mate didn't bother saying more as he hurled a slender javelin of power at him, the shot as precise as an arrow. And when it reached the king-- It went right through him. He rippled--then steadied. An illusion. A shade. The king rumbled a laugh. "Did you think I'd appear at this battle myself?" He waved a hand toward the soldiers still watching. "A taste--this battle is only a taste for you. To whet your appetite." Then he was gone. The magic leaking from the boat, the oily sheen it'd laid over Rhys's power ... it vanished, too. Rhys allowed the Hybern soldiers aboard the ship, aboard the ones around him, the honor of at least lifting their blades. Then he turned them all into nothing but red mist and splinters floating on the waves. <|title|>Chapter 38 <|startofchapter|>Mor was shaking me. I only knew it because Rhys threw me out of his mind the moment he unleashed himself upon those soldiers. You were here too long, was all he said, caressing a dark talon down my face. Then I was out, stumbling down the bond, his shield slamming shut behind me. "Feyre," Mor was saying, fingers digging into my shoulders through my leathers. "Feyre." I blinked, the sun and blood and narrow street coming into focus. Blinked--and then vomited all over the cobblestones between us. People, shaken and petrified, only stared. "This way," Mor said, and looped her arm around my waist as she led me into a dusty, empty alley. Far from watching eyes. I barely took in the city and bay and sea beyond--barely noticed that a mighty maelstrom of darkness and water and wind was now shoving Hybern's fleet back over the horizon. As if Tarquin's and Rhys's powers had been unleashed by the king's vanishing. I made it to a pile of fallen stones from the half-wrecked building beside us when I vomited again. And again. Mor put a hand on my back, rubbing soothing circles as I retched. "I did the same after my first battle. We all did." It wasn't even a battle--not in the way I'd pictured: army against army on some unremarkable battlefield, chaotic and muddy. Even the real battle today had been out on the sea-- where the Illyrians were now sailing inland. I couldn't bear to start counting how many made the return trip. I didn't know how Mor or Rhys or Cassian or Azriel could bear it. And what I'd just seen ... "The king was here," I breathed. Mor's hand stilled on my back. "What?" I leaned my brow against the sun-warmed brick of the building before me and told her--what I'd seen in Rhys's mind. The king--he had been here and yet not here. Another trick --another spell. No wonder Rhys hadn't been able to attack his mind: the king hadn't been present to do so. I closed my eyes as I finished, pressing my brow harder into the brick. Blood and sweat still coated me. I tried to remember the usual fit of my soul in my body, the priority of things, my way of looking at the world. What to do with my limbs in the stillness. How did I usually position my hands without a blade between them? How did I stop moving? Mor squeezed my shoulder, as if she understood the racing thoughts, the foreignness of my body. The War had raged for seven years. Years. How long would this one last? "We should find the others," she said, and helped me straighten before winnowing us back to the palace towering high above. I couldn't bring myself to send another thought down the bond. See where Rhys was. I didn't want him to see me--feel me--in such a state. Even if I knew he wouldn't judge. He, too, had spilled blood on the battlefield today. And many others before it. All of my friends had. And I could understand--just for a heartbeat, as the wind tore around us--why some rulers, human and Fae, had bowed before Hybern. Bowed, rather than face this. It wasn't only the cost of life that ripped and devastated and sundered. It was the altering of a soul with it--the realization that I could perhaps go back home to Velaris, perhaps see peace achieved and cities rebuilt ... but this battle, this war ... I would be the thing forever changed. War would linger with me long after it had ended, some invisible scar that would perhaps fade, but never wholly vanish. But for my home, for Prythian and the human territory and so many others ... I would clean my blades, and wash the blood from my skin. And I would do it again and again and again. The middle level of the palace was a flurry of motion: blood- drenched Summer Court soldiers limped around healers and servants rushing to the injured being laid on the floor. The stream through the center of the hall ran red. More and more winnowed in, borne by wide-eyed High Fae. A few Illyrians--just as bloody but eyes clear--hauled in their own wounded through the open windows and balcony doors. Mor and I scanned the space, the throngs of people, the reek of death and screams of the injured. I tried to swallow, but my mouth was too dry. "Where are I recognized the warrior the same moment he spied me. Varian, kneeling over an injured soldier with his thigh in ribbons, went utterly still as our eyes met. His brown skin was splattered in blood as bright as the rubies they'd sent to us, his white hair plastered to his head, as if he'd just chucked off his helmet. He whistled through his teeth, and a soldier appeared at his side, taking up his position of tying a tourniquet around the hurt male's thigh. The Prince of Adriata rose to his feet. I did not have any magic left in me to shield. After seeing Rhys with the king, there was only an empty pit where my fear had been a wild sea within me. But I felt Mor's power slide into place between us. There was a death-promise on my head. From them. Varian approached--slowly. Stiffly. As if his entire body ached. Though his handsome face revealed nothing. Only bone-weary exhaustion. His mouth opened--then shut. I didn't have words, either. So Varian rasped, his voice hoarse enough that I knew he'd been screaming for a long, long time, "He's in the oak dining room." The one where I had first dined with them. I just nodded at the prince and began easing my way through the crowd, Mor keeping close to my side. I'd thought Varian meant Rhysand. But it was Tarquin who stood in gore-flecked silver armor at the dining table, maps and charts before him, Summer Court Fae either blood-soaked or pristine filling the sunny chamber. The High Lord of the Summer Court looked up from the table as we paused on the threshold. Took in me, then Mor. The kindness, the consideration that I had last seen on the High Lord's face was gone. Replaced by a grim, cold thing that made my stomach turn. Blood had clotted from a thick slice down his neck, the caked bits crumbling away as Tarquin glanced to the people in the room and said, "Leave us." No one even dared glance twice at him as they filed out. I had done a horrible thing the last time we were here. I had lied, and stolen. I had torn into his mind and tricked him into believing me innocent. Harmless. I did not blame him for the blood ruby he had sent. But if he sought to exact his vengeance now ... "I heard you two cleared the palace. And helped clear the island." His words were low--lifeless. Mor inclined her head. "Your soldiers fought bravely beside us. Tarquin ignored her, his crushing turquoise eyes upon me. Taking in the blood, the wounds, the leathers. Then the mating band on my finger, the star sapphire dull, blood crusted between the delicate folds and arcs of metal. "I thought you came to finish the job," Tarquin said to me. I didn't dare move. "I heard Tamlin took you. Then I heard the Spring Court fell. Collapsed from within. Its people in revolt. And you had vanished. And when I saw the Illyrian legion sweeping in ... I thought you had come for me, too. To help Hybern finish us off." Varian had not told him--of the message he'd snuck to Amren. Not a call for aid, but a frantic warning for Amren to save herself. Tarquin hadn't known that we'd be coming. "We would never ally with Hybern," Mor said. "I am talking to Feyre Archeron." I'd never heard Tarquin use that tone. Mor bristled, but said nothing. "Why?" Tarquin demanded, sunlight glinting on his armor --whose delicate, overlapping scales were fashioned after a fish's. I didn't know what he meant. Why had we deceived and stolen from him? Why had we come to help? Why to both? "Our dreams are the same," was all I could think to say. A united realm, in which lesser faeries were no longer shoved down. A better world. The opposite of what Hybern fought for. What his allies fought for. "Ts that how you justified stealing from me?" My heart stumbled a beat. Rhysand said from behind me, no doubt having winnowed in, "My mate and I had our reasons, Tarquin." My knees nearly buckled at the evenness in his voice, at the blood-speckled face that still revealed no sign of great injury, at the dark armor--the twin to Azriel's and Cassian's--that had held intact despite a few deep scratches I could barely stand to note. Cassian and Azriel? Fine. Overseeing the Illyrian injured and setting up camp in the hills. Tarquin glanced between us. "Mate." "Wasn't it obvious?" Rhysand asked with a wink. But there was an edge in his eyes--sharp and haunted. My chest tightened. Did the king leave some sort of trap to He slid a hand against my back. No. No--I'm all right. Pissed I didn't see that he was an illusion, but ... Fine. Tarquin's face didn't so much as shift from that cold wrath. "When you went into the Spring Court and deceived Tamlin as well about your true nature, when you destroyed his territory ... You left the door open for Hybern. They docked in his harbors." No doubt to wait for the wall to collapse and then sail south. Tarquin snarled, "It was an easy trip to my doorstep. You did this." I could have sworn I felt Rhys flinch through the bond. But my mate said calmly, "We did nothing. Hybern chooses its actions, not us." He jerked his chin toward Tarquin. "My force shall remain camped in the hills until you've deemed the city secure. Then we will go." "And do you plan to steal anything else before you do?" Rhys went utterly still. Debating, I realized, whether to apologize. Explain. I spared him from the choice. "Tend to your wounded, Tarquin." "Don't give me orders." The face of the former Summer Court admiral--the prince who had commanded the fleet in the harbor until the title was thrust upon him. I took in the weariness fogging his eyes, the anger and grief. People had died. Many people. The city he had fought so hard to rebuild, the people who had tried to fight past the scars of Amarantha ... "We are at your disposal," I said to him, and walked out. Mor kept close, and we emerged into the hall to find a cluster of his advisers and soldiers watching us carefully. Behind us, Rhys said to Tarquin, "I didn't have a choice. I did it to try to avoid this, Tarquin. To stop Hybern before he got this far." His voice was strained. Tarquin only said, "Get out. And take your army with you. We can hold the bay now that they don't have surprise on their side." Silence. Mor and I lingered just outside the open doors, not turning back, but both of us listening. Listening as Rhysand said, "I saw enough of Hybern in the War to tell you this attack is just a fraction of what the king plans to unleash." A pause. "Come to the meeting, Tarquin. We need you--Prythian needs you. Another beat of quiet. Then Tarquin said, "Get out." "Feyre's offer holds: we are at your disposal." "Take your mate and leave. And I'd suggest warning her not to give High Lords orders." I stiffened, about to whirl around, when Rhys said, "She is High Lady of the Night Court. She may do as she wishes." The wall of Fae standing before us withdrew slightly. Now studying me, some gaping. A murmur rippled through them. Tarquin let out a low, bitter laugh. "You do love to spit on tradition." Rhys didn't say anything more, his strolling footsteps sounding over the tiled floor until his hand warmed my shoulder. I looked up at him, aware of all who gawked at us. At me. Rhys pressed a kiss to my sweaty, blood-crusted temple and we vanished. <|title|>Chapter 39 <|startofchapter|>The Illyrian camp remained in the hills above Adriata. Mostly because there were so many injured that we couldn't move them until they'd healed enough to survive it. Wings shredded, guts dangling out, faces mauled ... I don't know how my friends were still standing as they tended to the wounded as much as they could. I barely saw Azriel, who had set up a tent to organize the information pouring in from his scouts: the Hybern fleet had retreated. Not to the Spring Court, but across the sea. No sign of any other forces waiting to strike. No whisper of Tamlin or Jurian. Cassian, though ... He limped through the injured laid out on the rocky, dry ground, offering kernels of praise or comfort to the soldiers who had not yet been tended. With the Siphons, he could do quick battlefield patching, but ... nothing extensive. Nothing intricate. His face, whenever we crossed paths as I fetched supplies for the healers working without rest, was grave. Gaunt. He still wore his armor, and though he'd rinsed the blood from his skin, it clung near the neck of his breastplate. The dullness in his hazel eyes was the same as that glazing my own. And Mor's. But Rhys ... His eyes were clear. Alert. His expression grim, but ... It was to him the soldiers looked. And he was everything he should be: a High Lord confident in his victory, whose forces had smashed through the Hybern fleet and saved a city of innocents. The toll it had taken on his own soldiers was difficult, but a worthy cost for victory. He strolled through the camp--overseeing the wounded, the information Azriel handed him, checking in with his commanders--still in his Illyrian armor. But wings gone. They'd vanished before he'd appeared in Tarquin's chamber. The sun set, leaving a blanket of darkness over the city lying below. So much darker than I'd last beheld it, alive and glittering with light. But this new darkness ... We had seen it in Velaris after the attack--we now knew it too well. Faelights bobbed over our camp, gilding the talons of all those Illyrian wings as they worked or lay injured. I knew many looked to me--their High Lady. But I could not muster Rhys's ease. His quiet triumph. So I kept fetching bowls of fresh water, kept hauling away the bloodied ones. Helped pin down screaming soldiers until my teeth clacked against each other with the force of their thrashing. I sat down only when my legs could no longer keep me upright, upon an overturned bucket outside the healers' tent. Just a few minutes--I'd sit for just a few minutes. I awoke inside another tent, laid upon a pile of furs, the faelight dim and soft. Rhys sat beside me, legs crossed, his hair in unusual disarray. Streaked with blood--as if it had coated his hands when he dragged them through it. "How long was I out?" My words were a rasp. He lifted his head from where he'd been studying some array of papers spread on the fur before him. "Three hours. Dawn is still far off--you should sleep." But I propped myself on my elbows. "You're not." He shrugged, sipping from the water goblet set beside him. "I'm not the one who fell face-first off a bucket into the mud." His wry smile faded. "How are you feeling?" I almost said Fine, but ... "I'm still figuring out what to feel." A careful nod. "Open war is like that ... It takes a while to decide how to deal with everything that it brings. The costs." I sat up fully, scanning the papers he'd laid out. Casualty lists. Only a hundred or so names on them, but ... "Did you know them--the ones who died?" His violet eyes shuttered. "A few. Tarquin lost many more than we did." "Who tells their families?" "Cassian. He'll send out lists once dawn arrives--when we see who survives the night. He'll visit their families if he knew them." I remembered that Rhys had once told me he'd scanned casualty lists for his friends in the War--the dread they'd all felt, waiting to see if a familiar name was on them. So many shadows clouded those violet eyes. I laid a hand on his own. He studied my fingers on his, the arcs of dirt beneath my fingernails. "The king only came today," he said at last, "to taunt me. The library attack, this battle ... It was a way to toy with me. Us." I touched his jaw. Cold--his skin was cold, despite the warm summer night pressing on us. "You are not going to die in this war, Rhysand." His attention snapped to me. I cupped his face in both hands now. "Don't you listen to a word he says. He knows--" "He knows about us. Our histories." And that scared Rhys to death. "He knew the library ... He picked it for what it meant to me, not just to take Nesta." "So we learn where to hit him, and strike hard. Better yet, we kill him before he can do any further harm." Rhys shook his head slightly, removing his face from my hands. "If it was only the king to contend with ... But with the Cauldron in his arsenal ..." And it was the way his shoulders began to curve in, the way his chin dipped ever so slightly ... I grabbed his hand again. "We need allies," I said, my eyes burning. "We can't face the brunt of this war alone." "I know." The words were heavy--weary. "Move the meeting with the High Lords sooner. Three days from now." "I will." I'd never heard that tone--that quiet. And it was precisely because of it that I said, "I love you." His head lifted, eyes churning. "There was a time when I dreamed of hearing that," he murmured. "When I never thought I'd hear it from you." He gestured to the tent--to Adriata beyond it. "Our trip here was the first time I let myself ... hope." To the stars who listen--and the dreams that are answered. And yet today, with Tarquin ... "The world should know," I said. "The world should know how good you are, Rhysand--how wonderful all of you are." "I can't tell if I should be worried that you're saying such nice things about me. Maybe the king's taunting did get to you. I pinched his arm, and he let out a low laugh before raising my face to study my eyes. He angled his head. "Should I be worried?" I put a hand to his cheek once more, the silken skin now warm. "You are selfless, and brave, and kind. You are more than I ever dreamed for myself, more than I ..." The words choked off, and I swallowed, taking a deep breath. I wasn't sure if he needed to hear it after what the king had said, but I needed to say it. Starlight now danced in his eyes. But I went on, "At this meeting with the other High Lords, what role will you play?" "The usual one." I nodded, having anticipated his answer. "And the others will play their usual roles, too." "And?" I slid my hand from his face and put it over his heart. "I think the time has come for us to remove the masks. To stop playing the part." He waited, hearing me out. "Velaris is secret no longer. The king knows too much about us--who we are. What we are. And if we're to ally with the other High Lords ... I think they need the truth. They will need the truth in order to trust us. The truth about who you really are--who Mor and Cassian and Azriel really are. Look at how poorly things went with Tarquin today. We can't--we can't let it continue like this. So no more masks, no more roles to play. We go as ourselves. As a family." If anything, the king's taunting had told me that. Games were over. There would be no more disguises, no more lies. Perhaps he thought it'd drive us toward continuing to do such things. But to stand a chance ... perhaps victory lay in the other direction. In honesty. With us standing together--as precisely who we were. I waited for Rhys to tell me that I was young and inexperienced, that I knew nothing of politics and war. Yet Rhys only brushed his thumb over my cheek. "They may be angry at the lies we've fed them over the centuries." "Then we will make it clear that we understand their feelings--and make it clear that we had no alternative way to protect our people." "We'll show them the Court of Dreams," he said quietly. I nodded. We'd show them--and also show Keir, and Eris, and Beron. Show who we were to our allies--and our enemies. Stars glimmered and burned out in those beautiful eyes. "And what of your powers?" The king had known of them, too --or guessed at it. I knew from his cautious tone that he'd already formed an opinion. But the choice was mine--he'd face it at my side no matter what I decided. And as I thought it through ... "I think they'll see the revealing of our good sides as manipulative if it also comes out that your mate has stolen power from them all. If the king plans to use that information against us--we'll deal with that later." "Technically, that power was gifted, but ... you're right. We'll have to walk a fine enough line regarding how we show ourselves--spin it the right way so they don't think it's a trap or scheme. But when it comes to you ..." Darkness blotted out the stars in his eyes. The darkness of assassins and thieves, the darkness of uncompromising death. "You could tip the scale in Hybern's favor if any of them are considering an alliance. Beron alone might try to kill you, with or without this war. I doubt even Eris could keep him from it." I could have sworn the war-camp shuddered at the power that rumbled awake--the wrath. Voices outside the tent dropped to whispers. Or outright silence. But I leaned over and kissed him lightly. "We'll deal with it," I said onto his mouth. He pulled his mouth from mine, his face grave. "We keep all your powers but the ones I gave you hidden. As my High Lady, you will have been expected to have received some." I swallowed hard, nodding, and took a long drink from his goblet of water. No more lies, no more deceptions--beyond my magic. Let Tarquin be the first and last casualty of our deceit. I chewed on my lip. "What about Miryam and Drakon? Have you learned anything about where they might have gone?" Along with that legion of aerial warriors? The question seemed to drag him up from wherever he'd gone while contemplating what now lay before us. Rhys sighed, scanning those casualty lists again. The dark ink seemed to absorb the dim faelight. "No. Az's spies have found no trace of them in any of the surrounding territories." He rubbed his temple. "How do you vanish an entire people?" I frowned. "I suppose Jurian's tactic to draw them out worked against him." Jurian--there hadn't been a whisper of him at the battle today. "It would seem so." He shook his head, the light dancing in the raven-black locks of his hair. "I should have established protocols with them--centuries ago. Ways to contact them, for them to contact us, if we ever needed help." "Why didn't you?" "They wanted to be forgotten by the world. And when I saw how peaceful Cretea became ... I did not want the world to intrude on them, either." A muscle flickered in his jaw. "If we did somehow find them ... would that be enough, though? If we can stop the wall from sundering first, I mean. Our forces and Drakon's, perhaps even Queen Vassa if Lucien can find her, against all of Hybern?" Against whatever gambits or spells the king still planned to unleash. Rhys was quiet for a moment. "It might have to be." It was the way his voice went hoarse, the way his eyes guttered, that made me press a kiss to his mouth as I laid a hand upon his chest and pushed him down upon the furs. His brows rose, but a half smile appeared on his lips. "There's little privacy in a war-camp," he warned, some of the light coming back to his eyes. I only straddled him, unfastening the button at the top of his dark jacket. The one below it. "Then I suppose you'll have to be quiet," I said, working my way down the front of the jacket until it gaped open to reveal the shirt beneath. I traced a finger of the whorl of tattoo peeking out near his neck. "When I saw you facing the king today ..." He brushed his fingers against my thighs. "I know. I felt you. I tugged on the hem of his shirt, and he rose onto his elbows, helping me remove his jacket, then the shirt beneath. A bruise marred his ribs, an angry splotch-- "It's fine," he said before I could speak. "A lucky shot." "With what?" Again, that half smile. "A spear?" My heart stopped. "A ..." I delicately brushed the bruise, swallowing hard. "Tipped in faebane. My shield blocked most of it--but not enough to avoid the impact." Dread curled in my stomach. But I leaned down and brushed a kiss over the bruise. Rhys loosed a long breath, his body seeming to settle. Calm. So I kissed the bruise again. Moved lower. He drew idle circles on my shoulder, my back. I felt his shield settle around our tent as I unbuttoned his pants. As I kissed my way across the muscled pane of his stomach. Lower. Rhys's hands slid into my hair as the rest of his clothes vanished. I stroked my hand over him once, twice--luxuriating in the feel of him, in knowing he was here, we were both here. Safe. Then I echoed the movement with my mouth. His growls of pleasure filled the tent, drowning out the distant cries of the injured and dying. Life and death-- hovering so close, whispering in our ears. But I tasted Rhys, worshipped him with my hands and mouth and then my body--and hoped that this shard of life we offered up, this undimming light between us, would drive death a bit further away. At least for another day. Only a few more Illyrians died during the night. But high up in the hills, the screams and wails of Tarquin's people rose to us on plumes of smoke from the still-burning fires Hybern had set. They continued burning when we left in the early hours after dawn, winnowing back to Velaris. Cassian and Azriel remained to lead the Illyrian legions to their new camp on our southern borders--and the former left from there to fly into the Steppes. To offer his condolences to a few of those families. Nesta was waiting for us in the foyer of the town house, Amren seething in a chair before the unlit fireplace of the sitting room. No sign of Elain, but before I could ask, Nesta demanded, "What happened?" Rhys glanced to me, then to Amren, who had shot to her feet and was now watching us with the same expression as Nesta's. My mate said to my sister, "There was a battle. We won. "We know that," Amren said, her small feet near-silent on the rugs as she strode for us. "What happened with Tarquin?" Mor took a breath to say something about Varian that would likely not end well for any of us, so I cut in, "Well, he didn't try to slaughter us on sight, so ... things went decently?" Rhys gave me a bemused look. "The royal family remains alive and well. Tarquin's armada suffered losses, but Cresseida and Varian were unscathed." Something tight in Amren's face seemed to relax at the words--his careful, diplomatic words. But Nesta was glancing between us all, her back still stiff, mouth a thin line. "Where is he?" "Who?" Rhys crooned. "Cassian." I didn't think I'd ever heard his name from her lips. Cassian had always been him or that one. And Nesta had been ... pacing in the foyer. As if she was worried. I opened my mouth, but Mor beat me to it. "He's busy." I'd never heard her voice so ... sharp. Icy. Nesta held Mor's stare. Her jaw tightened, then relaxed, then tightened--as if fighting some battle to keep questions in. Mor didn't drop her gaze. Mor had never seemed ruffled by mention of Cassian's past lovers. Perhaps because they'd never meant much--not in the ways that counted. But if the Illyrian warrior no longer stood as a physical and emotional buffer between her and Azriel ... And worse, if the person who caused that vacancy was Nesta Mor said flatly, "When he gets back, keep your forked tongue behind your teeth." My heart leaped into a furious beat, my arms slack at my sides at the insult, the threat. But Rhys said, "Mor." She slowly--so slowly--looked at him. There was nothing but uncompromising will in Rhys's face. "We now leave for the meeting in three days. Send out dispatches to the other High Lords to inform them. And I'm done debating where to meet. Pick a place and be done with it." She stared him down for a heartbeat, then dragged her gaze back to my sister. Nesta's face had not altered, the coldness limning it unbending. She was so still she seemed to barely be breathing. But she did not balk. She did not avert her eyes from the Morrigan. Mor vanished with hardly a blink. Nesta only turned and headed for the sitting room, where I noticed books had been laid on the low-lying table before the hearth. Amren flowed in behind her, tossing a backward look over a shoulder at Rhys. The motion shifted her gray blouse enough that I caught the sparkle of red peeking beneath the fabric. The necklace of rubies that she wore, hidden, beneath her shirt. Gifted from Varian. But Rhys nodded to Amren, and the female asked my sister, "Where were we?" Nesta sat in the armchair, holding herself tightly enough that the whites of her knuckles arced through her skin. "You were explaining how the territory lines were formed between courts." The words were distant--brittle. And--They've also taken up history lessons? I'm as shocked as you are that the house is still standing. I swallowed my laugh, linking my arm through his and tugging him down the hall. It had been a while since I'd seen him so ... dirty. We both needed a bath, but there was something I had to do first. Needed to do. Behind us, Amren murmured to Nesta, "Cassian has gone to war many times, girl. He isn't general of Rhys's forces for nothing. This battle was a skirmish compared to what lies ahead. He's likely visiting the families of the fallen as we speak. He'll be back before the meeting." Nesta said, "I don't care." At least she was talking again. I halted Rhys halfway down the hall. With so many listening ears in the house, I said down the bond, Take me to the Prison. Right now. Rhys asked no questions. <|title|>Chapter 40 <|startofchapter|>I had no bone to bring with me. And though every step up that hillside and then down into the dark ripped and weighed on me, I kept moving. Kept planting one foot in front of the other. I had the feeling Rhys did the same. Standing before the Bone Carver two hours later, the ancient death-god still wearing my would-be son's skin, I said, "Find another object that you desire." The Carver's violet eyes flared. "Why does the High Lord linger in the hall?" "He has little interest in seeing you." Partially true. Rhys had wondered if the blow to his pride would work in our favor. "You reek of blood--and death." The Carver breathed in a great lungful of air. Of my scent. "Pick another object than the Ouroboros," was all I said. Hybern knew about our histories, our would-be allies. There remained a shred of hope that he would not see the Carver coming. "I desire nothing else than my window to the world." I avoided the urge to clench my hands into fists. "I could offer you so many other things." My voice turned low, honeyed. "You are afraid to claim the mirror." The Bone Carver angled his head. "Why?" "You are not afraid of it?" "No." A little smile. He leaned to the side. "Are you frightened of it, too, Rhysand?" My mate didn't bother to answer from the hall, though he did come to lean against the threshold, crossing his arms. The Carver sighed at the sight of him--the dirt and blood and wrinkled clothes, and said, "Oh, I much prefer you bloodied up. "Pick something else," I replied. And not a fools errand this time. "What would you give me? Riches do me no good down here. Power holds no sway over the stone." He chuckled. "What about your firstborn?" A secret smile as he gestured with that small boy's hand to himself. Rhys's attention slid to me, surprise--surprise and something deeper, more tender--flickering on his face. Not just any boy, then. My cheeks heated. No. Not just any boy. "It is rude, Majesties, to speak when no one can hear you." I sliced a glare toward the Carver. "There is nothing else, then." Nothing else that wont break me if I so much as look upon it? "Bring me the Ouroboros and I am yours. You have my word." I weighed the beatific expression on the Carver's face before I strode out. "Where is my bone?" The demand cracked through the gloom. I kept walking. But Rhys chucked something at him. "From lunch." The Carver's hiss of outrage as a chicken bone skittered over the floor followed us out. In silence, we began the trek up through the Prison. The mirror--I'd have to find some way to get it. After the meeting. Just in case it did indeed ... destroy me. What does he look like? The question was soft--tentative. I knew who he meant. I interlaced my fingers through Rhysand's and squeezed tightly. Let me show you. And as we walked through the darkness, toward that distant, still-hidden light, I did. We were starving by the time we returned to the town house. And since neither of us felt like waiting for food to be prepared, Rhys and I headed right for the kitchen, passing by Amren and Nesta with little more than a wave. My mouth was already watering as Rhys shouldered open the swinging door into the kitchen. But we beheld what was within and halted. Elain stood between Nuala and Cerridwen at the long worktable. All three of them covered in flour. Some sort of doughy mess on the surface before them. The two handmaiden-spies instantly bowed to Rhys, and Elain-- There was a slight sparkle in her brown eyes. As if she'd been enjoying herself with them. Nuala swallowed hard. "The lady said she was hungry, so we went to make her something. But--she said she wanted to learn how, so ..." Hands wreathed in shadows lifted in a helpless gesture, flour drifting off them like veils of snow. "We're making bread." Elain was glancing between all of us, and as her eyes began to shutter, I gave her a broad smile and said, "I hope it'll be done soon--I'm starved." Elain offered a faint smile in return and nodded. She was hungry. She was ... doing something. Learning something. "We're going to bathe," I announced, even as my stomach grumbled. "We'll leave you to your baking." I tugged Rhys into the hall before they'd finished saying good-bye, the kitchen door swinging shut behind us. I put a hand on my chest, leaning against the wood panels of the stair wall. Rhys's hand covered my own a heartbeat later. "That was what I felt," he said, "when I saw you smile that night we dined along the Sidra." I leaned forward, resting my brow against his chest, right over his heart. "She still has a long way to go." "We all do." He stroked a hand over my back. I leaned into the touch, savoring his warmth and strength. For long minutes, we stood there. Until I said, "Let's go find somewhere to eat--outside."' "Hmmm." He showed no sign of letting go. I looked up at last. Found his eyes shining with that familiar, wicked light. "I think I'm hungry for something else," he purred. My toes curled in my boots, but I lifted my brows and said coolly, "Oh?" Rhys nipped at my earlobe, then whispered in my ear as he winnowed us up to our bedroom, where two plates of food now waited on the desk. "I owe you for last night, mate." He gave me the courtesy, at least, of letting me pick what he consumed first: me or the food. I picked wisely. Nesta was waiting at the breakfast table the next morning. Not for me, I realized as her gaze slipped over me as if I were no more than a servant. But for someone else. I kept my mouth shut, not bothering to tell her Cassian was still up at the war-camps. If she wouldn't ask ... I wasn't getting in the middle of it. Not when Amren claimed that my sister was close--so close--to grasping whatever skill was involved in potentially patching up the wall. If she would only unleash herself, Amren said. I didn't dare suggest that perhaps the world wasn't quite ready for that. I ate my breakfast in silence, my fork scraping across the plate. Amren said she was close to finding what we needed in the Book, too--whatever spell my sister would wield. How Amren knew, I had no idea. It didn't seem wise to ask. Nesta only spoke when I rose to my feet. "You're going to that meeting in two days." "Yes." I braced myself for whatever she intended to say. Nesta glanced toward the front windows, as if still waiting, still watching. "You went off into battle. Without a second thought. Why?" "Because I had to. Because people needed help." Her blue-gray eyes were near-silver in the trickle of morning light. But Nesta said nothing else, and after waiting for another moment, I left, winnowing up to the House for my flying lesson with Azriel. <|title|>Chapter 41 <|startofchapter|>The next two days were so busy that the lesson with Azriel was the only time I trained with him. The spymaster had returned from dispatching the messages Mor had written about the meeting moving up. They had agreed on the date, at least. But Mor's declaration of the spot, despite her unyielding language, had been universally rejected. Thus continued the endless back-and-forth between courts. Under the Mountain had once been their neutral meeting place. Even if it hadn't been sealed, no one was inclined to meet there now. So the debate raged about who would host the gathering of all the High Lords. Well, six of them. Beron, at last, had deigned to join. But no word had come from the Spring Court, though we knew the messages had been received. All of us would go--save Amren and Nesta, who the former insisted needed to practice more. Especially when Amren had found a passage in the Book last night that might be what we needed to fix the wall. With only hours to spare the evening before, it was finally agreed that the meeting would take place in the Dawn Court. It was close enough to the middle of the land, and since Kallias, High Lord of Winter, would not allow anyone into his territory after the horrors Amarantha had wrought upon its people, it was the only other area flanking that neutral middle land. Rhys and Thesan, High Lord of the Dawn Court, were on decent terms. Dawn was mostly neutral in any conflict, but as one of the three Solar Courts, their allegiance always leaned toward each other. Not as strong an ally as Helion Spell- Cleaver in the Day Court, but strong enough. It didn't stop Rhys, Mor, and Azriel from gathering around the dining table at the town house the night before to go over every kernel of information they'd ever learned about Thesan's palace--about possible pitfalls and traps. And escape routes. It was an effort not to pace, not to ask if perhaps the risks outweighed the benefits. So much had gone wrong in Hybern. So much was going wrong throughout the world. Every time Azriel spoke, I heard his roar of pain as that bolt went through his chest. Every time Mor countered an argument, I saw her pale-faced and backing away from the king. Every time Rhys asked for my opinion, I saw him kneeling in his friends' blood, begging the king not to sever our bond. Nesta and Amren paused their practicing in the sitting room every so often so that the latter could chime in with some bit of advice or warning regarding the meeting. Or so that Amren could snap at Nesta to concentrate, to push harder. While she herself combed through the Book. A few more days, Amren declared when Nesta at last went upstairs, complaining of a headache. A few more days, and my sister, through whatever mysterious power, might be able to do something. That is, Amren added, if she could crack that promising section of the Book in time. And with that, the dark- haired female bid us good night--to go read until her eyes were bleeding, she claimed. Considering how awful the Book was, I wasn't entirely sure if she was joking. The others weren't, either. I barely touched my dinner. And I barely slept that night, twisting in the sheets until Rhys woke and patiently listened to me murmur my fears until they were nothing but shadows. Dawn broke, and as I dressed, the morning unfurled into a sunny, dry day. Though we would be going to the meeting as we truly were, our usual attire remained the same: Rhys in his preferred black jacket and pants, Azriel and Cassian in their Illyrian armor, all seven Siphons polished and gleaming. Mor had forgone her usual red gown for one of midnight blue. It was cut with the same revealing panels and flowing, gauzy skirts, but there was something ... restrained in it. Regal. A princess of the realm. The usual attire--except my own. I had not found a new gown. For there was no other gown that could top the one I now wore as I stood in the foyer while the clock on the sitting room mantel struck eleven. Rhys hadn't yet come downstairs, and there was no sign of Amren or Nesta to see us off. We'd gathered a few minutes earlier, but ... I looked down at myself again. Even in the warm faelight of the foyer, the gown glittered and gleamed like a fresh-cut jewel. We had taken my gown from Starfall and refashioned it, adding sheer silk panels to the back shoulders, the glittering material like woven starlight as it flowed behind me in lieu of a veil or cape. If Rhysand was Night Triumphant, I was the star that only glowed thanks to his darkness, the light only visible because of him. I scowled up the stairs. That is, if he bothered to show up on time. My hair, Nuala had swept into an ornate, elegant arc across my head, and in front of it ... I caught Cassian glancing at me for the third time in less than a minute and demanded, "What?" His lips twitched at the corners. "You just look so ..." "Here we go," Mor muttered from where she picked at her red-tinted nails against the stair banister. Rings glinted at every knuckle, on every finger; stacks of bracelets tinkled against each other on either wrist. "Official," Cassian said with an incredulous look in her direction. He waved a Siphon-topped hand to me. "Fancy." "Over five hundred years old," Mor said, shaking her head sadly, "a skilled warrior and general, famous throughout territories, and complimenting ladies is still something he finds next to impossible. Remind me why we bring you on diplomatic meetings?" Azriel, wreathed in shadows by the front door, chuckled quietly. Cassian shot him a glare. "I don't see you spouting poetry, brother." Azriel crossed his arms, still smiling faintly. "I don't need to resort to it." Mor let out a crow of laughter, and I snorted, earning a jab in the ribs from Cassian. I batted his hand away, but refrained from the shove I wanted to give him, only because it was the first I'd seen of him since Adriata and shadows still dimmed his eyes--and because of the precarious-feeling thing atop my head. The crown. Rhys had crowned me at each and every meeting and function we'd had, long before I was his mate, long before I was his High Lady. Even Under the Mountain. I'd never questioned the tiaras and diadems and crowns that Nuala or Cerridwen wove into my hair. Never objected to them--even before things between us had been this way. But this one ... I peered up the stairs as Rhys's strolling, unhurried footsteps thudded on the carpet. This crown was heavier. Not unwelcome, but ... strange. And as Rhys appeared at the top of the stairs, resplendent in that black jacket, his wings out and gleaming as if he'd polished them, I was again in that room he'd brought me to late last night, after I'd awoken him with my thrashing and twisting in bed. It was contained a level above the library in the House of Wind, and warded with so many spells that it had taken him a few moments to work through them. Only he and I--and any future offspring, he added with a soft smile--were able to enter. Unless we brought guests. The chamber was a cool, chill black--as if we'd stepped inside the mind of some sleeping beast. And within its round space gleamed glittering islands of light. Of jewels. Ten thousand years' worth of treasure. It was neatly organized, in podiums and open drawers and busts and racks. "The family jewels,"' Rhys said with a devious grin. "Some of the pieces we don't like are kept at the Court of Nightmares, just so they don't get pissy and because we sometimes loan them to Mor's family, but these ... these are for the family." He led me past displays that sparkled like small constellations, the worth of each ... Even as a merchant' daughter, I could not calculate the worth of any of it. And toward the back of the chamber, shrouded in a heavier darkness ... I'd heard of catacombs on the continent, where skulls of beloved or infamous people were kept in little alcoves--dozens or hundreds of them to a wall. The concept here was the same: carved into the rock was an entire wall of crowns. They each had their own resting place, lined with black velvet, each illuminated by-- "Glowworms," Rhys told me as the tiny, bluish globs crusted in the arches of each nook seemed to glitter like the entire night sky. In fact ... What I'd taken for small faelights in the ceiling high above ... It was all glowworms. Pale blue and turquoise, their light as silken as moonlight, illumining the jewels with their ancient, silent fire. "Pick one, " Rhys whispered in my ear. "A glowworm?" He nipped at my earlobe. "Smartass." He steered me back toward the wall of crowns, each wholly different--as individual as skulls. "Pick whichever crown you like. "I can't just--take one.' "You most certainly can. They belong to you.' I lifted a brow. "They don t--not really. " "By law and tradition, this is all yours. Sell it, melt it, wear them--do whatever you want." "You don't care about it?" I gestured to the trove worth more than most kingdoms. "Oh, I have favorite pieces that I might convince you to spare, but ... This is yours. Every last piece of it." Our eyes met, and I knew he, too, recalled the words that I'd whispered to him months ago. That every piece of my still- healing heart belonged to him. I smiled, and brushed a hand down his arm before approaching the wall of crowns. I had been terrified once, in Tamlin s court, of being given a crown. Had dreaded it. And I supposed that I indeed had never fretted over it when it came to Rhys. As if some small part of me had always known that this was where I was meant to be: at his side, as his equal. His queen. Rhys inclined his head as if to say yes--he saw and understood and had always known. Now striding down the town house stairs, Rhys's attention went right to that crown atop my head. And the emotion that rippled across his face was enough to make even Mor and Cassian look away. I'd let the crown call to me. I hadn't picked it for style or comfort, but for the draw I felt to it, as if it were that ring in the Weaver's cottage. My crown was crafted of silver and diamond, all fashioned into swirls of stars and various phases of the moon. Its arching apex held aloft a crescent moon of solid diamond, flanked by two exploding stars. And with the glittering dress from Starfall Rhys stepped off the stairs and took my hand. Night Triumphant--and the Stars Eternal. If he was the sweet, terrifying darkness, I was the glittering light that only his shadows could make clear. "I thought you were leaving," Nesta's voice cut in from atop the stairs. I braced myself, dragging my attention away from Rhys. Nesta was in a gown of darkest blue, no jewelry to be seen, her hair swept up and unadorned as well. I supposed that with her stunning beauty, she needed no ornamentation. It would have been like putting jewelry on a lion. But for her to be dressed like that ... She strode down the stairs, and when the others were silent, I realized ... I tried not to look too obvious as I glanced at Cassian. They had not seen each other since Adriata. But the warrior only gave her a cursory once-over and turned toward Azriel to say something. Mor was watching both carefully--the warning she'd given my sister ringing silently between them. And Nesta, Mother damn it all, seemed to remember. Seemed to rein in whatever words she'd been about to spit and just approached me. And nearly made my heart stop dead with shock as she said, "You look beautiful." I blinked at her. Mor said, "That, Cassian, was what you were attempting to say. He grumbled something we chose not to hear. I said to Nesta, "Thank you. You do as well." Nesta only shrugged. I pushed, "Why are you dressed so nicely? Shouldn't you be practicing with Amren?" I felt Cassian's attention slide to us, felt them all look as Nesta said, "I'm going with you." <|title|>Chapter 42 <|startofchapter|>No one said anything. Nesta only lifted her chin. "I ..." I'd never seen her stumble for words. "I do not want to be remembered as a coward." "No one would say that," I offered quietly. "I would." Nesta surveyed us all, her gaze jumping past Cassian. Not to slight him, but ... avoid answering the look he was giving her. Approval--more. "It was some distant thing," she said. "War. Battle. It ... it's not anymore. I will help, if I can. If it means ... telling them what happened." "You've given enough," I said, my dress rustling as I braved a solitary step toward her. "Amren claimed you were close to mastering whatever skill you need. You should stay-- focus on that." "No." The word was steady, clear. "A day or two delay with my training won't make any difference. Perhaps by the time we return, Amren will have decoded that spell in the Book." She shrugged with a shoulder. "You went off to battle for a court you barely know--who barely see you as friends. Amren showed me the blood ruby. And when I asked you why ... you said because it was the right thing. People needed help." Her throat bobbed. "No one is going to fight to save the humans beneath the wall. No one cares. But I do." She toyed with a fold in her dress. "I do." Rhys stepped up to my side. "As High Lady, Feyre is no longer my emissary to the human world." He gave Nesta a tentative smile. "Want the job?" Nesta's face yielded nothing, but I could have sworn some spark flared. "Consider this meeting a trial basis. And I'll make you pay through the teeth for my services." Rhys sketched a bow. "I would expect nothing less of an Archeron sister." I poked him in the ribs, and he huffed a laugh. "Welcome to the court," he said to her. "You're about to have one hell of a first day." And to my eternal shock, a smile tugged at Nesta's mouth. "No going back now," Cassian said to Rhys, gesturing to his wings. Rhys slid his hands into his pockets. "I figure it's time for the world to know who really has the largest wingspan." Cassian laughed, and even Azriel smiled. Mor gave me a look that had me biting my lip to keep from howling. "Twenty gold marks says there's a fight in the first hour," Cassian said, still not really looking at Nesta. "Thirty, and I say within forty-five minutes," Mor said, crossing her arms. "You do remember there are vows and wards of neutrality," Rhys said mildly. "You lot don't need fists or magic to fight," Mor chirped. Azriel said from the door, "Fifty, and I say within thirty minutes. Started by Autumn." Rhys rolled his eyes. "Try not to look like you're all gambling on them. And no cheating by provoking fights." Their answering grins were anything but reassuring. Rhys sighed. "A hundred marks on a fight within fifteen minutes." Nesta let out a soft snort. But they all looked to me, waiting. I shrugged. "Rhys and I are a team. He can gamble away our money on this bullshit." They all looked deeply offended. Rhys looped his elbow through mine. "A queen in appearance--"' "Don't even finish that," I said. He laughed. "Shall we?" He'd winnow me in, Mor would now take Cassian and Nesta, and Azriel would carry himself. Rhys glanced toward the sitting room clock and gave the shadowsinger a nod. Azriel instantly vanished. First to arrive--first to see if any trap awaited. In silence, we waited. One minute. Two. Then Rhys blew out a breath and said, "Clear." He threaded his fingers through mine, gripping tightly. Mor sagged a bit, jewelry glinting with the movement, and went to take Cassian's arm. But he'd at last approached Nesta. And as the world began to turn to shadows and wind, I saw Cassian tower over my sister, saw her chin lift defiantly, and heard him growl, "Hello, Nesta." Rhys seemed to halt his winnowing as my sister said, "So you're alive." Cassian bared his teeth in a feral grin, wings flaring slightly. "Were you hoping otherwise?" Mor was watching--watching so closely, every muscle tense. She again reached for his arm, but Cassian angled out of reach, not tearing his eyes from Nesta's blazing gaze. Nesta blurted, "You didn't come to--" She stopped herself. The world seemed to go utterly still at that interrupted sentence, nothing and no one more so than Cassian. He scanned her face as if furiously reading some battle report. Mor just watched as Cassian took Nesta's slim hand in his own, interlacing their fingers. As he folded in his wings and blindly reached his other hand back toward Mor in a silent order to transport them. Cassian's eyes did not leave Nesta's; nor did hers leave his. There was no warmth, no tenderness on either of their faces. Only that raging intensity, that blend of contempt and understanding and fire. Rhys began to winnow us again, and just as the dark wind swept in, I heard Cassian say to Nesta, his voice low and rough, "The next time, Emissary, I'll come say hello." I'd learned enough from Rhys about what to expect of the Dawn Court, but even the vistas he'd painted for me didn't do the sight justice. It was the clouds I saw first. Enormous clouds drifting in the cobalt sky, soft and magnanimous, still tinged by the rose remnants of sunrise, their round edges gilded with the golden light. The dewy freshness of morning lingered in the balmy air as we peered up at the mountain-palace spiraling into the heavens above. If the palace above the Court of Nightmares had been crafted of moonstone, this was made from ... sunstone. I didn't have a word for the near-opalescent golden stone that seemed to hold the gleaming of a thousand sunrises within it. Steps and balconies and archways and verandas and bridges linked the towers and gilded domes of the palace, periwinkle morning glories climbing the pillars and neatly cut blocks of stone to drink in the gilded mists wafting by. Wafting by, because the mountain on which the palace stood ... There was a reason I beheld the clouds first. The veranda that we'd appeared on was empty, save for Azriel and a slim-hipped attendant in the gold-and-ruby livery of Dawn. Light, loose robes--layered and yet flattering. The male bowed, his brown skin smooth with youth and beauty. "This way, High Lord." Even his voice was as lovely as the first glimmer of gold on the horizon. Rhys returned his bow with a shallow nod, and offered his arm to me. Mor muttered behind us, falling into rank with Nesta at her side, "If you ever feel like building a new house, Rhys, let's use this one for inspiration." Rhys threw her an incredulous look over a shoulder. Cassian and Azriel snorted softly. I glanced to Nesta as the attendant led us not to the archway beyond the veranda, but the spiral stairs climbing upward-- along the bare face of a tower. Nesta seemed as out of place as all of us--save Mor--but That was awe on my sister's face. Utter awe at the castle in the clouds, at the verdant countryside rippling away far below, speckled with red-roofed little villages and broad, sparkling rivers. A lush, eternal countryside, rich with the weight of summer upon it. And I wondered if my face had appeared like that--the day I'd first seen Velaris. The mix of awe and anger and the realization that the world was large, and beautiful, and sometimes so overwhelming in its wonder that it was impossible to drink it down all at once. There were other palaces within Dawn's territory--set in small cities that specialized in tinkering and clockwork and clever things. Here ... beyond those little villages nestled in the country hills, there was no industry. Nothing beyond the palace and the sky and the clouds. We ascended the spiral stairs, the drop off the too-near edge falling away into warm-colored rock peppered with clusters of pale roses and fluffy, magenta peonies. A beautiful, colorful death. Every step had me bracing myself as we wound up and up the tower, Rhys's grip on my hand unwavering. The wings remained out. He did not falter a single step. His eyes slid to mine, amused and questioning. He said down the bond, And do you think I need to redecorate our home? We passed open-air chambers full of fat, silk pillows and plush carpets, passed windows whose panes were arranged in colorful medleys, passed urns overflowing with lavender and fountains gurgling clearest water under the mild rays of the sun. It's not a competition, I trilled to him. His hand tightened on mine. Well, even if Thesan has a prettier palace, I'm the only one blessed with a High Lady at my Side. I couldn't help my blush. Especially as Rhys added, Tonight, I want you to wear that crown to bed. Only the crown. Scoundrel. Always. I smiled, and he leaned in smoothly to brush a kiss to my cheek. Mor muttered a plea for mercy from mates. Muted voices reached us from the open-air chamber atop the sunstone tower--some deep, some sharp, some lilting-- before we finished the last rotation around it, the arched, glassless windows offering no barrier to the conversation within. Three others are here already, Rhys warned me, and I had the feeling that was what Azriel was now murmuring to Mor and Cassian. Helion, Kallias, and Thesan. The High Lords of Day, Winter, and our host, Dawn. Meaning Autumn and Summer--Beron and Tarquin--had not arrived yet. Or Spring. I still doubted Tamlin would come at all, but Beron and Tarquin ... Perhaps the battle had changed Tarquin's mind. And Beron was awful enough to perhaps have sided with Hybern already, regardless of Eris's manipulating. I caught the bob of Rhys's throat as we cleared the final steps to the open doorway. A long bridge connected the other half of the tower to the palace interior, its rails drooping with dawn-pale wisteria. I wondered if the others had been led up these stairs, or if it was somehow meant to be an insult. Shields up? Rhys asked, but I knew he was aware mine had been raised since Velaris. Just as I was aware that he'd put a shield, mental and physical, around all of us, terms of peace or no. And though his face was calm, his shoulders thrown back, I said, I see all of you, Rhys. And there is not one part that I do not love with everything that I am. His hand squeezed mine in answer before he laid my fingers on his arm, raising it enough that we must have painted a rather courtly portrait as we entered the chamber. You bow to no one, was all he replied. <|title|>Chapter 43 <|startofchapter|>The chamber was and was not what I expected. Deep- cushioned oak chairs had been arranged in a massive circle in the heart of the room--enough for all the High Lords and their delegates. Some, I realized, had been shaped to accommodate wings. It seemed it was not unusual. For clustered around a beautiful, slender male who I immediately remembered from Under the Mountain were winged Fae. If the Illyrians had batlike wings, these ... they were like birds. The Peregryns are distantly related to Drakons Seraphim people and provide Thesan with a small aerial legion, Rhys said to me of the muscular, golden-armored males and females gathered. The male on his left is his captain and lover. Indeed, the handsome male stood just a tad closer to his High Lord, one hand on the fine sword at his side. No mating bond yet, Rhys went on, but I think Thesan didn't dare acknowledge it while Amarantha reigned. She delighted in ripping out their feathers--one by one. She made a dress out of them once. I tried not to wince as we stepped onto the polished marble floor, the stone warmed with the sun streaming through the open archways. The others had looked toward us, some murmuring at the sight of Rhys's wings, but my attention went to the true gem of the chamber: the reflection pool. Rather than a table occupying the space between that circle of chairs, a shallow, circular reflection pool was carved into the floor itself. Its dark water was laden with pink and gold water lilies, the pads broad and flat as a male's hand, and beneath them pumpkin-and-ivory fish lazily swam about. This, I admitted to Rhys, I might need to have. A wry pulse of humor down the bond. I'll make a note of it for your birthday. More wisteria twined about the pillars flanking the space, and along the tables set against the few walls, bunches of wine-colored peonies unfurled their silken layers. Between the vases, platters and baskets of food had been laid--small pastries, cured meats, and garlands of fruit beckoned before sweating pewter ewers of some refreshment. Then there were the three High Lords themselves. We were not the only ones to have dressed well. Rhys and I halted halfway through the space. I knew them all--remembered them from those months Under the Mountain. Rhys had taught me their histories while we'd trained. I wondered if they sensed their power within me as their attention slid between us. Thesan glided forward, his embroidered, exquisite shoes silent on the floor. His tunic was tight-fitting through his slender chest, but flowing pants--much like those Amren favored--whispered with movement as he approached. His brown skin and hair were kissed with gold, as if the sunrise had permanently gilded them, but his upswept eyes, the rich brown of freshly tilled fields, were his loveliest feature. He paused a few feet away, taking in Rhys and me, our entourage. The wings that Rhys kept folded behind him. "Welcome," Thesan said, his voice as deep and rich as those eyes. His lover monitored our every breath from a few feet behind, no doubt realizing our own companions were doing the same behind us. "Or," Thesan mused, "since you've called this meeting, perhaps you should be doing the welcoming?" A faint smile ghosted Rhys's perfect face, shadows twining between the strands of his hair. He'd loosened the damper on his power--just a bit. They all had. "I may have requested the meeting, Thesan, but you were the one gracious enough to offer up your beautiful residence." Thesan gave a nod of thanks, perhaps deeming it impolite to inquire about Rhysand's newly revealed wings, then turned to me. We stared at each other while my companions bowed behind me. As a High Lord's wife should have done with them. Yet I simply stood. And stared. Rhys did not interfere--not at this first test. Dawn--the gift of healing. It was his gift that had allowed me to save Rhysand's life. That had sent me to the Suriel, that day I had learned the truth that would alter my eternity. I offered Thesan a restrained smile. "Your home is lovely." But Thesan's attention had gone to the tattoo. I knew he realized it the moment he noticed the ink covered the wrong hand. Then the crown atop my head. His brows flicked up. Rhys only shrugged. The other two High Lords had approached now. "Kallias," Rhys said to the white-haired one, whose skin was so pale it looked frozen. Even his crushing blue eyes seemed like chips hewn from a glacier as he studied Rhys's wings and seemed to instantly dismiss them. He wore a jacket of royal blue embroidered with silver thread, its collar and sleeves dusted with white rabbit fur. I would have thought it too warm for the mild day, especially the fur-lined, knee-high brown boots, but given the utter iciness of his expression, perhaps his blood ran frozen. A trio of similarly colored High Fae remained in their seats, one of them a stunning young female who looked right at Mor--and grinned. Mor returned the beam, hopping from one foot to another as Kallias opened his mouth-- And then my friend squealed. Squealed. Both females hurtled for each other, and Mor's squeal had turned to a quiet sob as she flung her arms around the slender stranger and hugged her tight. The female's own arms were shaking as she gripped Mor. Then they were laughing and crying and dancing around each other, pausing to study each other's faces, to wipe away tears, and then embracing again. "You look the same," the stranger was saying, beaming from ear to ear. "I think that's the same dress I saw you in--" "You look the same! Wearing fur in the middle of summer --how utterly typical--" "You brought the usual suspects, it seems--" "Thankfully, the company has been improved by some new arrivals--" Mor waved me over. It had been ages since I'd seen her shining so brightly. "Viviane, meet Feyre. Feyre, meet Viviane--Kallias's wife." I glanced at Thesan and Kallias, the latter of whom watched his wife and Mor with raised brows. "I tried to suggest she stay at home," Kallias said drily, "but she threatened to freeze my balls off." Rhys let out a dark chuckle. "Sounds familiar." I threw him a glare over a sparkling shoulder--just in time to see the smirk fade from Kallias's face as he truly took in Rhys. Not just the wings this time. My mate's own amusement dimmed, some thread of tension going taut between him and Kallias-- But I'd reached Mor and Viviane, and wiped the curiosity from my face as I shook the female's hand, surprised to find it warm. Her silver hair glittered in the sun like fresh snow. "Wife," Viviane said, clicking her tongue. "You know, it still sounds strange to me. Every time someone says it, I keep looking over my shoulder as if it'll be someone else." Kallias said to none of us in particular, from where he remained facing Rhys, stiff-backed, "I have yet to decide if I find it insulting. Since she says it every day." Viviane stuck out her tongue at him. But Mor gripped her shoulder and squeezed. "It's about time." A blush stained Viviane's pale face. "Yes, well--everything was different after Under the Mountain." Her sapphire eyes slid to mine and she bowed her head. "Thank you--for returning my mate to me." "Mates?" Mor fizzed, glancing between them. "Married and mates?" "You two do realize that this is a serious meeting," Rhys said. "And that the fish in the pool are very sensitive to high- pitched sounds," Kallias added. Viviane gave them both a vulgar gesture that made me instantly like her. Rhys looked to Kallias with what I assumed was some sort of long-suffering male expression. But the High Lord did not return it. He only stared at Rhys, amusement again gone--that coldness settling in across his face. There had been ... tension with the Winter Court, Mor had explained when they'd rescued Lucien and me on the ice. A lingering anger over something that had occurred Under the Mountain-- But the third High Lord had at last approached from across the pool. My father had once bought and traded a gold and lapis lazuli pendant that hailed from the ruins of an arid southeastern kingdom, where the Fae had ruled as gods amid swaying date palms and sand-swept palaces. I'd been mesmerized by the colors, the artistry, but more interested in the shipment of myrrh and figs that had come with it--a few of the latter my father had snuck to me while I loitered in his office. Even now, I could still taste their sweetness on my tongue, still smell that earthy scent, and I couldn't quite explain why, but ... I remembered that ancient necklace and those exquisite delicacies as he prowled toward us. His clothes had been formed from a single bolt of white fabric--not a robe, not a dress, but rather something in between, pleated and draped over his muscular body. A golden cuff of an upright serpent encircled one powerful bicep, offsetting his near-glowing dark skin, and a radiant crown of golden spikes--the rays of the sun, I realized--glistened atop his onyx hair. The sun personified. Powerful, lazy with grace, capable of kindness and wrath. Nearly as beautiful as Rhysand. And somehow--somehow colder than Kallias. His High Fae entourage was almost as large as ours, clad in similar robes of varying rich dyes--cobalt and crimson and amethyst--some with expertly kohl-lined eyes, all of them fit and gleaming with health. But perhaps the physical power of them--of him was the sleight of hand. For Helion's other title was Spell-Cleaver, and his one thousand libraries were rumored to contain the knowledge of the world. Perhaps all that knowledge had made him too aware, too cold behind those bright eyes. Or perhaps that had come after Amarantha had looted some of those libraries for herself. I wondered if he'd reclaimed what she'd taken--or if he mourned what she'd burned. Even Mor and Viviane halted their reunion as Helion stopped a wise distance away. It was his power that had gotten my friends out of Hybern. His power that made me glow whenever Rhys and I were tangled in each other and every heartbeat ached with mirth. Helion jerked his square chin to Rhys, the only one of them, it seemed, not surprised by my mate's wings. But his eyes--a striking amber--fell on me. "Does Tamlin know what she is?" His voice was indeed colder than Kallias's. And the question--so carefully worded. Rhys drawled, "If you mean beautiful and clever, then yes --I think he does." Helion leveled a flat look at him. "Does he know she is your mate--and High Lady?" "High Lady?" Viviane squeaked, but Mor shushed her, drawing her away to whisper. Thesan and Kallias took me in. Slowly. Cassian and Azriel casually slid closer, no more than a night breeze. "If he arrives," Rhys said smoothly, "I suppose we'll find out Helion let out a dark laugh. Dangerous--he was utterly lethal, this High Lord kissed by the sun. "I always liked you, Rhysand." Thesan stepped forward, ever the good host. For that laugh indeed promised violence. His lover and the other Peregryns seemed to shift into defensive positions--either to guard their High Lord or simply to remind us that we were guests in their home. But Helion's attention snagged on Nesta. Lingered. She only stared right back at him. Unruffled, unimpressed. "Who is your guest?" the High Lord of Day asked a bit too quietly for my liking. Cassian revealed nothing--not even a glimmer that he knew Nesta. But he didn't move an inch from his casual defensive position. Neither did Azriel. "She is my sister, and our emissary to the human lands," I said at last to him, stepping to her side. "And she will tell her story when the others are here." "She is Fae." "No shit," Viviane muttered under her breath, and Mor's snort was cut off as Kallias raised his brows at them. Helion ignored them. "Who Made her?" Thesan asked politely, angling his head. Nesta surveyed Thesan. Then Helion. Then Kallias. "Hybern did," she said simply. Not a flicker of fear in her eyes, in her upraised chin. Stunned silence. But I'd had enough of my sister being ogled. I linked elbows with her, heading toward the low-backed chairs that I assumed were for us. "They threw her in the Cauldron," I said. "Along with my other sister, Elain." I sat, placing Nesta beside me, and gazed at the three assembled High Lords without an inch of manners or niceness or flattery. "After the High Priestess Ianthe and Tamlin sold out Prythian and my family to them." Nesta nodded her silent confirmation. Helion's eyes blazed like a forge. "That is a heavy accusation to make--especially of your former lover." "It is no accusation," I said, folding my hands in my lap. "We were all there. And now we're going to do something about it." Pride flickered down the bond. And then Viviane muttered to Kallias, jabbing him in the ribs, "Why can't I be High Lady as well?" The others arrived late. We took our seats around the reflection pool, Thesan's impeccably mannered attendants bringing us plates of food and goblets of exotic juices from the tables against the wall. Conversation halted and flowed, Mor and Viviane sitting next to each other to catch up on what seemed like fifty years' worth of gossip. Viviane had not been Under the Mountain. As her childhood friend, Kallias had been protective of her to a fault over the years--had placed the sharp-minded female on border duty for decades to avoid the scheming of his court. He didn't let her near Amarantha, either. Didn't let anyone get a whiff of what he felt for his white-haired friend, who had no clue--not one--that he had loved her his entire life. And in those last moments, when his power had been ripped from him by that spell ... Kallias had flung out the remnants to warn her. To tell Viviane he loved her. And then he begged her to protect their people. So she had. As Mor and my friends had protected Velaris, Viviane had veiled and guarded the small city under her watch, offering safe harbor to those who made it. Never forgetting the High Lord and friend trapped Under the Mountain, never ceasing her hunt for finding a way to free him. Especially while Amarantha unleashed her horrors upon his court to break them, punish them. Yet Viviane held them together. And through that reign of terror--during all those years--she realized what Kallias was to her, what she felt for him in return. The day he'd returned home, he'd winnowed right to her. She'd kissed him before he could speak a word. He'd then knelt down and asked her to be his wife. They went an hour later to a temple and swore their vows. And that night--during the you-know, Viviane grinned at Mor --the mating bond at last snapped into place. The story occupied our time while we waited, since Mor wanted details. Lots of them. Ones that pushed the boundaries of propriety and left Thesan choking on his elderberry wine. But Kallias smiled at his wife and mate, warm and bright enough that despite his icy coloring, He should have been the High Lord of Day. Not the sharp-tongued, brutal Helion, who watched my sister and me like an eagle. A great, golden eagle--with very sharp talons. I wondered what his beast form was; if he grew wings like Rhysand. And claws. If Thesan did, too--white wings like the watchful Peregryns who kept silent, his own fierce-eyed lover not uttering a word to anyone. Perhaps the High Lords of the Solar Courts all possessed wings beneath their skin, a gift from the skies that their courts claimed ownership of. It was an hour before Thesan announced, "Tarquin is here." My mouth went dry. An uncomfortable silence spread. "Heard about the blood rubies." Helion smirked at Rhys, toying with the golden cuff on his bicep. "That is a story I want you to tell." Rhys waved an idle hand. "All in good time." Prick, he said to me with a wink. But then Tarquin cleared the top step into the chamber, Varian and Cresseida flanking him. Varian glanced among us for someone who was not there-- and glowered when he beheld Cassian, seated to Nesta's left. Cassian just gave him a cocky grin. I wrecked one building, Cassian had said once of his last visit to the Summer Court. Where he was now banned. Apparently, even assisting them in battle hadn't lifted it. Tarquin ignored Rhysand and me--ignored all of us, Rhys's wings included--as he made vague apologies for the tardiness, blaming it on the attack. Possibly true. Or he'd been deciding until the last minute whether to come, despite his acceptance of the invitation. He and Helion were nearly as tense, and only Thesan seemed to be on decent terms with him. Neutral indeed. Kallias had become even colder--distant. But the introductions were done, and then ... An attendant whispered to Thesan that Beron and all of his sons had arrived. The smile instantly vanished from Mor's mouth, her eyes. From my own as well. The violence simmering off my friends was enough to boil the pool at our toes as the High Lord of Autumn filed through the archway, his sons in rank behind him, his wife--Lucien's mother--at his side. Her russet eyes scanned the room, as if looking for that missing son. They settled instead on Helion, who gave her a mocking incline of his dark head. She quickly averted her gaze. She had saved my life once--Under the Mountain. In exchange for my sparing Lucien's. Did she wonder where her lost son was now? Had she heard the rumors I'd crafted, the lies I'd spun? I couldn't tell her that Lucien currently hunted the continent, dodging armies, for an enchanted queen. To find a scrap of salvation. Beron--slender-faced and brown-haired--didn't bother to look anywhere but at the High Lords assembled. But his remaining sons sneered at us. Sneered enough that the Peregryns ruffled their feathers. Even Varian flashed his teeth in warning at the leer Cresseida earned from one of them. Their father didn't bother to check them. But Eris did. A step behind his father, Eris murmured, "Enough," and his younger brothers fell into line. All three of them. Whether Beron noticed or cared, he did not let on. No, he merely stopped halfway across the room, hands folded before him, and scowled--as if we were a pack of mongrels. Beron, the oldest among us. The most awful. Rhys smoothly greeted him, though his power was a dark mountain shuddering beneath us, "It's no surprise that you're tardy, given that your own sons were too slow to catch my mate. I suppose it runs in the family." Beron's lips curled slightly as he looked to me, my crown. "Mate--and High Lady." I leveled a flat, bored stare at him. Turned it on his hateful sons. On--Eris. Eris only smiled at me, amused and aloof. Would he wear that mask when he ended his father's life and stole his throne? Cassian was watching the would-be High Lord like a hawk studying his next meal. Eris deigned a glance at the Illyrian general and inclined his head in invitation, subtly patting his stomach. Ready for round two. Then Eris's attention shifted to Mor, sweeping over her with a disdain that made me see red. Mor only stared blankly at him. Bored. Even Viviane was biting her lip. So she knew of what had been done to Mor--what Eris's presence would trigger. Unaware of the meeting that had already occurred, the unholy alliance struck. Azriel was so still I wasn't sure he was breathing. Whether Mor noticed, whether she knew that though she'd tried to move past the bargain we'd made, the guilt of it still haunted Azriel, she didn't let on. They sat--filling in the final seats. Not one empty chair left. It said enough about Tamlin's plans. I tried not to sag in my chair as the attendants took care of the Autumn Court, as we all settled. Thesan, as host, began. "Rhysand, you have called this meeting. Pushed us to gather sooner than we intended. Now would be the time to explain what is so urgent." Rhys blinked--slowly. "Surely the invading armies landing on our shores explain enough." "So you have called us to do what, exactly?" Helion challenged, bracing his forearms on his muscled, gleaming thighs. "Raise a unified army?" "Among other things," Rhys said mildly. "We--" It was almost the same--the entrance. Almost the same as that night in my family's old cottage, when the door had shattered and a beast had charged in with the freezing cold and roared at us. He did not bother with the landing balcony, or the escorts. He did not have an entourage. Like a crack of lightning, vicious as a spring storm, he winnowed into the chamber itself. And my blood went colder than Kallias's ice as Tamlin appeared, and smiled like a wolf. <|title|>Chapter 44 <|startofchapter|>Absolute silence. Absolute stillness. I felt the tremor of magic slide through the room as shield after shield locked into place around each High Lord and his retinue. The one Rhysand had already snapped around us, now reinforcing ... Rage laced its essence. Wrath and rage. Even if my mate's face was bored--lazy. I tried to school mine into the cold caution with which Nesta regarded him, or the vague distaste on Mor's. I tried-- and failed utterly. I knew his moods, his temper. Here was the High Lord who had shredded those naga into bloody ribbons; here was the High Lord who had impaled Amarantha on Lucien's sword and ripped out her throat with his teeth. All of it, gleaming in those green eyes as they fixed on me, on Rhys. Tamlin's teeth were white as crow-picked bones as he smiled broadly. Thesan rose, his captain remaining seated beside him-- albeit with a hand on his sword. "We were not expecting you, Tamlin." Thesan gestured with a slender hand toward his cringing attendants. "Fetch the High Lord a chair." Tamlin did not tear his gaze from me. From us. His smile turned subdued--yet somehow more unnerving. More vicious. He wore his usual green tunic--no crown, no adornments. No sign of another bandolier to replace the one I'd stolen. Beron drawled, "I will admit, Tamlin, that I am surprised to see you here." Tamlin didn't alter his focus from me. From every breath I took. "Rumor claims your allegiance now lies elsewhere." Tamlin's gaze shifted--but down. To the ring on my finger. To the tattoo adorning my right hand, flowing beneath the glittering, pale blue sleeve of my gown. Then it rose--tright to that crown I'd picked for myself. I didn't know what to say. What to do with my body, my breathing. No more masks, no more lies and deceptions. The truth, now sprawled bare and open before him. What I'd done in my rage, the lies I'd fed him. The people and land I'd laid vulnerable to Hybern. And now that I'd returned to my family, my mate... My molten wrath had cooled into something sharp-edged and brittle. The attendants hauled over a chair--setting it between one of Beron's sons and Helion's entourage. Neither looked thrilled about it, though they weren't stupid enough to physically recoil as Tamlin sat. He said nothing. Not a word. Helion waved a scar-flecked hand. "Let's get on with it, then." Thesan cleared his throat. No one looked toward him. Not as Tamlin surveyed the hand Rhys had resting on my sparkling knee. The loathing in Tamlin's eyes practically simmered. No one, not even Amarantha, had ever looked at me with such hatred. No, Amarantha hadn't really known me--her loathing had been superficial, driven from a personal history that poisoned everything. Tamlin ... Tamlin knew me. And now hated every inch of what I was. He opened his mouth, and I braced myself. "It would seem congratulations are in order." The words were flat--flat and yet sharp as his claws, currently hidden beneath his golden skin. I said nothing. Rhys only held Tamlin's stare. Held it with a face like ice, and yet utter rage roiled beneath it. Cataclysmic rage, surging and writhing down the bond between us. But my mate addressed Thesan, who had reclaimed his seat, yet seemed far from any sort of ease, "We can discuss the matter at hand later." Tamlin said calmly, "Don't stop on my account." The light in Rhysand's eyes guttered, as if a hand of darkness wiped away those stars. But he reclined in his chair, withdrawing his hand from my knee to trace idle circles on his seat's wooden arm. "I'm not in the business of discussing our plans with enemies." Helion, across the reflection pool, grinned like a lion. "No," Tamlin said with equal ease, "you're just in the business of fucking them." Every thought and sound eddied out of my head. Cassian, Azriel, and Mor were still as death--their fury rippling off them in silent waves. But whether Tamlin noticed or cared that three of the deadliest people in this room were currently contemplating his demise, he didn't let on. Rhys shrugged, smiling faintly. "Seems a far less destructive alternative to war." "And yet here you are, having started it in the first place." Rhysand's blink was the only sign of his confusion. A claw slid out of Tamlin's knuckle. Kallias tensed, a hand drifting to the arm of Viviane's chair --as if he'd throw himself in front of it. But Tamlin only dragged that claw lightly down the carved arm of his own chair--as he'd once dragged them down my skin. He smiled as if he knew precisely what memory it triggered, but said to my mate, "If you hadn't stolen my bride away in the night, Rhysand, I would not have been forced to take such drastic measures to get her back." I said quietly, "The sun was shining when I left you." Those green eyes slid to me, glazed and foreign. He let out a low snort, then looked away again. Dismissal. Kallias asked, "Why are you here, Tamlin?" Tamlin's claw dug into the wood, puncturing deep even as his voice remained mild. I had no doubt that gesture was meant for me, too. "I bartered access to my lands to get back the woman I love from a sadist who plays with minds as if they are toys. I meant to fight Hybern--to find a way around the bargain I made with the king once she was back. Only Rhysand and his cabal had turned her into one of them. And she delighted in ripping open my territory for Hybern to invade. All for a petty grudge--either her own or her ... master's." "You don't get to rewrite the narrative," I breathed. "You don't get to spin this to your advantage." Tamlin only angled his head at Rhys. "When you fuck her, have you ever noticed that little noise she makes right before she climaxes?" Heat stained my cheeks. This wasn't outright battle, but a steady, careful shredding of my dignity, my credibility. Beron beamed, delighted--while Eris carefully monitored. Rhys turned his head, looking me over from head to toe. Then back to Tamlin. A storm about to be unleashed. But it was Azriel who said, his voice like cold death, "Be careful how you speak about my High Lady." Surprise flashed in Tamlin's eyes--then vanished. Vanished, swallowed by pure fury as he realized what that tattoo coating my hand was for. "It was not enough to sit at my side, was it?" A hateful smile curled his lips. "You once asked me if you'd be my High Lady, and when I said no ..." A low laugh. "Perhaps I underestimated you. Why serve in my court, when you could rule in his?" Tamlin at last faced the other gathered High Lords and their retinues. "They peddle tales of defending our land and peace. And yet she came to my lands and laid them bare for Hybern. She took my High Priestess and warped her mind--after she shattered her bones for spite. And if you are asking yourself what happened to that human girl who went Under the Mountain to save us ... Look to the male sitting beside her. Ask what he stands to gain--what they stand to gain from this war, or lack of it. Would we fight Hybern, only to find ourselves with a Queen and King of Prythian? She's proved her ambition--and you saw how he was more than happy to serve Amarantha to remain unscathed." It was an effort not to snarl, not to grip the arms of my chair and roar at him. Rhys let out a dark laugh. "Well played, Tamlin. You're learning." Ire contorted Tamlin's face at the condescension. But he faced Kallias. "You asked why I'm here? I might ask the same of you." He jerked his chin at the High Lord of Winter, at Viviane--the few other members of their retinue who had remained silent. "You mean to tell me that after Under the Mountain, you can stomach working with him?" A finger flung in Rhysand's direction. I wanted to rip that finger right off Tamlin's hand. And feed it to the Middengard Wyrm. The silvery glow about Kallias dulled. Even Viviane seemed to dim. "We came here to decide that for ourselves." Mor was staring at her friend in quiet question. Viviane, for the first time since we'd arrived, did not look toward her. Only at her mate. Rhys said softly to them, to everyone, "I had no involvement in that. None." Kallias's eyes flared like blue flame. "You stood beside her throne while the order was given." I watched, stomach twisting, as Rhys's golden skin paled. "I tried to stop it." "Tell that to the parents of the two dozen younglings she butchered," Kallias said. "That you tried." I had forgotten. Forgotten that bit of Amarantha's despicable history. It had happened while I was still at the Spring Court--a report one of Lucien's contacts at the Winter Court managed to smuggle out. Of two dozen children killed by the "blight." By Amarantha. Rhys's mouth tightened. "There is not one day that passes when I don't remember it," he said to Kallias, to Viviane. To their companions. "Not one day." I hadn't known. He had told me once, all those months ago, that there were memories he could not bring himself to share--even with me. I had assumed it was only in regard to what Amarantha had done to him. Not ... what he might have been forced to witness, too. Forced to endure, bound and trapped. And standing by, leashed to Amarantha, while she ordered the murder of those children-- "Remembering," Kallias said, "doesn't bring them back, does it?" "No," Rhys said plainly. "No, it doesn't. And I am now fighting to make sure it never happens again." Viviane glanced between her husband and Rhys. "I was not present Under the Mountain. But I would hear, High Lord, how you tried to--stop her." Pain tightened her face. She, too, had been unable to prevent it while she guarded her small slice of the territory. Rhys said nothing. Beron snorted. "Finally speechless, Rhysand?" I put a hand on Rhys's arm. I had no doubt Tamlin marked it. And I didn't care. I said to my mate, not bothering to keep my voice down, "I believe you." "Says the woman," Beron countered, "who gave an innocent girl's name in her stead--for Amarantha to butcher as well." I blocked out the words, the memory of Clare. Rhys swallowed. I tightened my grip on his arm. His voice was rough as he said to Kallias, "When your people rebelled ..." They had, I recalled. Winter had rebelled against Amarantha. And the children ... that had been Amarantha's answer. Her punishment for the disobedience. "She was furious. She wanted you dead, Kallias." Viviane's face drained of color. Rhys went on, "I ... convinced her that it would serve little purpose." "Who knew," Beron mused, "that a cock could be so persuasive?" "Father." Eris's voice was low with warning. For Cassian, Azriel, Mor, and I had fixed our gazes upon Beron. And none of us were smiling. Perhaps Eris would be High Lord sooner than he planned. But Rhys went on to Kallias, "She backed off the idea of killing you. Your rebels were dead--I convinced her it was enough. I thought it was the end of it." His breathing hitched slightly. "I only found out when you did. I think she viewed my defense of you as a warning sign--she didn't tell me any of it. And she kept me ... confined. I tried to break into the minds of the soldiers she sent, but her damper on my power was too strong to hold them--and it was already done. She ... she sent a daemati with them. To ..." He faltered. The children's minds--they'd been shattered. Rhys swallowed. "I think she wanted you to suspect me. To keep us from ever allying against her." What he must have witnessed within those soldiers' minds "Where did she confine you?" The question came from Viviane, her arms wrapped around her middle. I wasn't entirely ready for it when Rhys said, "Her bedroom." My friends did not hide their rage, their grief at the details he'd kept even from them. "Stories and words," Tamlin said, lounging in his chair. "Is there any proof?" "Proof--" Cassian snarled, half rising in his seat, wings starting to flare. "No," Rhys cut in as Mor blocked Cassian with an arm, forcing him to sit. Rhys added to Kallias, "But I swear it-- upon my mate's life." His hand at last rested atop mine. For the first time since I'd known him, Rhys's skin was clammy. I reached down the bond, even as Rhys held Kallias's stare. I did not have any words. Only myself--only my soul, as I curled up against his towering shields of black adamant. He'd known what coming here, presented just as we were, would cost him. What he might have to reveal beyond the wings he loved so dearly. Tamlin rolled his eyes. It took every scrap of restraint to keep me from lunging for him--from ripping out those eyes. But whatever Kallias read in Rhys's face, his words ... He pinned Tamlin with a hard stare as he asked again, "Why are you here, Tamlin?" A muscle flickered in Tamlin's jaw. "I am here to help you fight against Hybern." "Bullshit," Cassian muttered. Tamlin glowered at him. Cassian, folding his wings in neatly as he leaned back in his chair once more, just offered a crooked grin in return. "You will forgive us," Thesan interrupted gracefully, "if we are doubtful. And hesitant to share any plans." "Even when I have information on Hybern's movements?" Silence. Tarquin, across the pool, watched and listened-- either because he was the youngest of them, or perhaps he knew some advantage lay in letting us battle it out ourselves. Tamlin smiled at me. "Why do you think I invited them to the house? Into my lands?" He let out a low snarl, and I felt Rhys tensing as Tamlin said to me, "I once told you I would fight against tyranny, against that sort of evil. Did you think you were enough to turn me from that?" His teeth shone white as bone. "It was so easy for you to call me a monster, despite all I did for you, for your family." A sneer toward Nesta, who was frowning with distaste. "Yet you witnessed all that he did Under the Mountain, and still spread your legs for him. Fitting, I suppose. He whored for Amarantha for decades. Why shouldn't you be his whore in return?" "Watch your mouth," Mor snapped. I was having difficulty swallowing--breathing. Tamlin ignored her wholly and waved a hand toward Rhysand's wings. "I sometimes forget--what you are. Have the masks come off now, or is this another ploy?" "You're beginning to become tedious, Tamlin," Helion said, propping his head on a hand. "Take your lovers' spat elsewhere and let the rest of us discuss this war." "You'd be all too happy for war, considering how well you made out in the last one." "No one says war can't be lucrative," Helion countered. Tamlin's lip curled in a silent snarl that made me wonder if he'd gone to Helion to break my bargain with Rhys--if Helion had refused. "Enough," Kallias said. "We have our opinions on how the conflict with Hybern should be dealt with." Those glacial eyes hardened as he again took in Tamlin. "Are you here as an ally of Hybern or Prythian?" The mocking, hateful gleam faded into granite resolve. "I stand against Hybern." "Prove it," Helion goaded. Tamlin lifted his hand, and a stack of papers appeared on the little table beside his chair. "Charts of armies, ammunition, caches of faebane ... Everything carefully gleaned these months." All of this directed at me, as I refused to so much as lower my chin. My back ached from keeping it so straight, a twinge of pain flanking either side of my spine. "Noble as it sounds," Helion went on, "who is to say that information is correct--or that you aren't Hybern's agent, trying to mislead us?" "Who is to say that Rhysand and his cronies are not agents of Hybern, all of this a ruse to get you to yield without realizing it?" Nesta murmured, "You can't be serious." Mor gave my sister a look as if to say that he certainly was. "If we need to ally against Hybern," Thesan said, "you are doing a good job of convincing us not to band together, Tamlin." "I am simply warning you that they might present the guise of honesty and friendship, but the fact remains that he warmed Amarantha's bed for fifty years, and only worked against her when it seemed the tide was turning. I'm warning you that while he claims his own city was attacked by Hybern, they made off remarkably well--as if they'd been anticipating it. Don't think he wouldn't sacrifice a few buildings and lesser faeries to lure you into an alliance, into thinking you had a common enemy. Why is it that only the Night Court got word about the attack on Adriata--and were the only ones to arrive in time to play savior?" "They received word," Varian cut in coolly, "because I warned them of it." Tarquin whipped his head to his cousin, brows high with surprise. "Perhaps you're working with them, too," Tamlin said to the Prince of Adriata. "You're next in line, after all." "You're insane," I breathed to Tamlin as Varian bared his teeth. "Do you hear what you're saying?" I pointed toward Nesta. "Hybern turned my sisters into Fae--after your bitch of a priestess sold them out!" "Perhaps Ianthe's mind was already in Rhysand's thrall. And what a tragedy to remain young and beautiful. You're a good actress--I'm sure the trait runs in the family." Nesta let out a low laugh. "If you want someone to blame for all of this," she said to Tamlin, "perhaps you should first look in the mirror." Tamlin snarled at her. Cassian snarled right back, "Watch it." Tamlin looked between my sister and Cassian--his gaze lingering on Cassian's wings, tucked in behind him. Snorted. "Seems like other preferences run in the Archeron family, too." My power began to rumble--a behemoth rising up, yawning awake. "What do you want?" I hissed. "An apology? For me to crawl back into your bed and play nice, little wife?" "Why should I want spoiled goods returned to me?" My cheeks heated. Tamlin growled, "The moment you let him fuck you like an One heartbeat, the poisoned words were spewing from his mouth--where fangs lengthened. Then they stopped. Tamlin's mouth simply stopped emitting sounds. He shut his mouth, opened it--tried again. No sound, not even a snarl, came out. There was no smile on Rhysand's face, not a glint of that irreverent amusement as he rested his head against the back of his chair. "The gasping-fish look is a good one for you, Tamlin." The others, who had been watching with disdain and amusement and boredom, now turned to my mate. Now possessed a shadow of fear in their eyes as they realized who and what, exactly, sat amongst them. Brethren, and yet not. Tamlin was a High Lord, as powerful as any of them. Except for the one at my side. Rhys was as different from them as humans were to Fae. They forgot it, sometimes--how deep that well of power went. What manner of power Rhys bore. But as Rhysand ripped away Tamlin's ability to speak, they remembered. <|title|>Chapter 45 <|startofchapter|>Only my friends didn't seem surprised. Tamlin's eyes were green flame, golden light flickering around him as his magic sought to wrest free from Rhysand's control. As he tried and tried to speak. "If you want proof that we are not scheming with Hybern," Rhysand said blandly to them all, "consider the fact that it would be far less time-consuming to slice into your minds and make you do my bidding." Only Beron was stupid enough to scoff. Eris was just angling his body in his chair--blocking the path to his mother. "Yet here I am," Rhysand went on, not deigning to give Beron a glance of acknowledgment. "Here we all are." Absolute silence. Then Tarquin, silent and watchful, cleared his throat. I waited for it--for the blow that would surely doom us. We were thieves who had deceived him, we had come to his house in peace and stolen from him, had ripped into their minds to ensure our success. But Tarquin said to me, to Rhysand, "Despite Varian's unsanctioned warning ..." A glare at his cousin, who didn't so much as look sorry about it, "You were the only ones who came to help. The only ones. And yet you asked for nothing in return. Why?" Rhys's voice was a bit hoarse as he asked, "Isn't that what friends do?" A subtle, quiet offer. Tarquin took him in. Then me. And the others. "I rescind the blood rubies. Let there be no debts between us." "Don't expect Amren to return hers," Cassian muttered. "She's grown attached to it." I could have sworn a smile tugged on Varian's mouth. But Rhys faced Tamlin, whose own mouth remained shut. His eyes still livid. And my mate said to him, "I believe you. That you will fight for Prythian." Kallias didn't appear so convinced. Neither did Helion. Rhys loosened his grasp on Tamlin's voice. I only knew because a low snarl slipped from him. But Tamlin made no move to attack, to even speak. "War is upon us," Rhysand declared. "I have no interest in wasting energy arguing amongst ourselves." The better man--umale. His restraint, his choice of words ... All of it a careful portrayal of reason and power. But Rhysand ... I knew he meant what he said. Even if Tamlin had been a part of killing his own family, even if he had played his part in Hybern ... For our home, for Prythian, he'd set it aside. A sacrifice that would harm no one but his own soul. But Beron said, "You may be inclined to believe him, Rhysand, but as someone who shares a border with his court, I am not so easily swayed." A wry look. "Perhaps my errant son can clarify. Pray, where is he?" Even Tamlin looked toward us--toward me. "Helping to guard our city," was all I said. Not a lie, not entirely. Eris snorted and surveyed Nesta, who stared back at him with steel in her face. "Pity you didn't bring the other sister. I hear our little brother's mate is quite the beauty." If they knew Elain was Lucien's mate ... It was now another avenue, I realized with no small amount of horror. Another way to strike at the youngest brother they hated so fiercely, so unreasonably. Eris's bargain with us had not included protection of Lucien. My mouth went dry. But Mor replied smoothly, "You still certainly like to hear yourself talk, Eris. Good to know some things don't change over the centuries." Eris's mouth curled into a smile at the words, the careful game of pretending that they had not seen each other in years. "Good to know that after five hundred years, you still dress like a slut." One moment, Azriel was seated. The next, he'd blasted through Eris's shield with a flare of blue light and tackled him backward, wood shattering beneath them. "Shit," Cassian spat, and was instantly there-- And met a wall of blue. Azriel had sealed them in, and as his scarred hands wrapped around Eris's throat, Rhys said, "Enough." Azriel squeezed, Eris thrashing beneath him. No physical brawling--there had been a rule against that, but Azriel, with whatever power those shadows gave him ... "Enough, Azriel," Rhys ordered. Perhaps those shadows that now slid and eddied around the shadowsinger hid him from the wrath of the binding magic. The others made no move to interfere, as if wondering the same. Azriel dug his knee--and all his weight--into Eris's gut. He was silent, utterly silent as he ripped the air from Eris's body. Beron's flames struck the blue shield, over and over, but the fire skittered off and fizzled out on the water. Any that escaped were torn to shreds by shadows. "Call off your overgrown bat," Beron ordered Rhys. Rhys was enjoying it, bargain with Eris or no--could have ended it seconds ago. He gave me a glance as if to say so. And an invitation. I rose on surprisingly steady knees. Felt all of them tense, Tamlin's gaze like a brand as I walked toward the shadowsinger, my sparkling gown hissing along the floor behind me. As I put a tattooed hand on the hard, near-invisible curve of the shield and said, "Come, Azriel." Azriel stopped. Eris gasped for air as those scarred hands loosened. As Azriel turned his face toward me-- The frozen rage there rooted me to the spot. But beneath it, I could almost see the images that haunted him: the hand Mor had yanked away, her weeping, distraught face as she had screamed at Rhys. And now, behind us, Mor was shaking in her chair. Pale and shaking. I only offered my hand to Azriel. "Come sit beside me." Nesta had already moved her seat, and an extra chair appeared beside mine. I didn't let my hand tremble as I kept it extended. And waited. Azriel's eyes slid to Eris, the High Lord's son panting beneath him. And the shadowsinger leaned down to whisper something in his ear that made Eris blanch further. But the shield dropped. The shadows lightened into sunshine. Beron struck--only for his fire to bounce off a hard barrier of my own. I lifted my gaze to the High Lord of Autumn. "That's twice now we've handed you your asses. I'd think you'd be sick of the humiliation." Helion laughed. But my attention returned to Azriel, who took my still-offered hand and rose. The scars were rough against my fingers, but his skin was like ice. Pure ice. Mor opened her mouth to say something to Azriel, but Cassian put a hand on her bare knee and shook his head. I led the shadowsinger to the empty chair beside mine--then walked to the table myself to pour him a glass of wine. No one spoke until I offered it to him and sat down. "They are my family," I said at the raised brows I received for my waiting on him. Tamlin just shook his head in disgust and finally slid that claw back into his hand. But I met Eris's fuming gaze, my voice as cold as Azriel's face as I said, "I don't care if we are allies in this war. If you insult my friend again, I won't stop him the next time." Only Eris knew how far that alliance went--information that could damn this meeting if either side revealed it. Information that could get him wiped off the earth by his father. Mor was staring and staring at Azriel, who refused to look at her, who refused to do anything but give Eris that death- gaze. Eris, wisely, averted his eyes. And said, "Apologies, Morrigan." His father actually gawked at the words. But something like approval shone on the Lady of Autumn's face as her eldest son settled himself once more. Thesan rubbed his temples. "This does not bode well." But Helion smirked at his retinue, crossing an ankle over a knee and flashing those powerful, sleek thighs. "Looks like you owe me ten gold marks." It seemed like we weren't the only ones who'd placed bets. Even if not one of Helion's entourage answered his mocking smile with one of their own. Helion waved a hand, and the stacks of papers Tamlin had compiled drifted over to him on a phantom wind. With a snap of his fingers--scar-flecked from swordplay--other stacks appeared before every chair in the room. Including my own. "Replicas," he said without looking up as he leafed through the documents. A handy trick--for a male whose trove was not in gold, but in knowledge. No one made any move to touch the papers before us. Helion clicked his tongue. "If all of this is true," he announced, Tamlin snarling at the haughty tone, "then I'd suggest two things: first, destroying Hybern's caches of faebane. We won't last long if they've made them into so many versatile weapons. It's worth the risk to destroy them." Kallias arched a brow. "How would you suggest we do that?" "We'll handle it," Tarquin offered. Varian nodded. "We owe them for Adriata." Thesan said, "There is no need." We all blinked at him. Even Tamlin. The High Lord of Dawn just folded his hands in his lap. "A master tinkerer of mine has been waiting for the past several hours. I would like for her to now join us." Before anyone could reply, a High Fae female appeared at the edge of the circle. She bowed so quickly that I barely glimpsed more than her light brown skin and long, silken black hair. She wore clothes similar to Thesan's, and yet--her sleeves had been rolled up to the forearms, the tunic unbuttoned to her chest. And her hand-- I guessed who she was before she rose. Her right hand was solid gold--mechanical. The way Lucien's was. It clicked and whirred quietly, drawing the eye of every immortal in the room as she faced her High Lord. Thesan smiled in warm welcome. But her face ... I wondered if Amren had modeled her own features after a similar bloodline when she'd bound herself into her Fae body: the sharp chin, round cheeks, and stunning uptilted eyes. But where Amren's were that unholy silver, this female's were dark as onyx. And aware--utterly aware of us gawking at her hand, her arrival--as she said to Thesan, "My Lord." Thesan gestured to the female standing tall before the assembled group. "Nuan is one of my most skilled craftspeople." Rhys leaned back in his seat, brows rising with recognition at the name, and jerked his chin to Beron, to Eris. "You might know her as the person responsible for granting your ... errant son, as you called him, the ability to use his left eye after Amarantha removed it." Nuan nodded once in confirmation, her lips pressing into a thin line as she took in Lucien's family. She didn't so much as turn in Tamlin's direction--and he certainly didn't bother to acknowledge her, regardless of the past binding them, their mutual friend. "And what has this to do with the faebane?" Helion demanded. Thesan's lover seethed at the High Lord of Day's tone, but one glance from Thesan had the male relaxing. Nuan turned, her dark hair slipping over a shoulder as she studied Helion. And did not seem impressed. "Because I found a solution for it." Thesan waved a hand. "We heard rumors of faebane being used in this war--used in the attack on your city, Rhysand. We thought to look into the issue before it became a deadly weakness for all of us." He nodded to Nuan. "Beyond her unparalleled tinkering, she is a skilled alchemist." Nuan crossed her arms, the sun glinting off her metal hand. "Thanks to samples attained after the attack in Velaris, I was able to create an ... antidote, of sorts." "How did you get those samples?" Cassian demanded. A flush crept over Nuan's cheeks. "I--heard the rumors and assumed Lucien Vanserra would be residing there after ... what happened." She still didn't look at Tamlin, who remained silent and brooding. "I managed to contact him a few days ago --asked him to send samples. He did--and did not tell you," she added quickly to Rhysand, "because he did not want to raise your hopes. Not until I'd found a solution." No wonder he'd been so eager to head alone into Velaris that day he'd gone to help us research. I shot a look at Rhys. Seems like Lucien can still play the fox. Rhys didn't look at me, though his lips twitched as he replied, Indeed. Nuan went on, "The Mother has provided us with everything we need on this earth. So it has been a matter of finding what, exactly, she gave us in Prythian to combat a material from Hybern capable of wiping out our powers." Helion shifted with impatience, that glistening, white fabric slipping over his muscled chest. Thesan read that impatience, too, and said, "Nuan has been able to quickly create a powder for us to ingest in drink, food, however you please. It grants immunity from the faebane. I already have workers in three of my cities manufacturing as much of it as possible to hand out to our unified armies." Even Rhys seemed impressed at the stealth, the unveiling. I'm surprised you didn't have a grand reveal of your own today, I quipped down the bond. Cruel, beautiful High Lady, he purred, eyes twinkling. Tarquin asked, "But what of physical objects made from faebane? They possessed gauntlets at the battle to smash through shields." He jerked his chin to Rhys. "And when they attacked your own city." "Against that," Nuan said, "you only have your wits to protect you." She did not break Tarquin's stare, and he straightened, as if surprised she did so. "The compound I've made will only protect you--your powers--from being rendered void by the faebane. Perhaps if you are pierced with a weapon tipped in faebane, having the compound in your system will negate its impact." Quiet fell. Beron said, "And we are supposed to trust you"--a look at Thesan, then at Nuan-- "with this ... substance we're to blindly ingest." "Would you rather face Hybern without any power?" Thesan demanded. "My master alchemists and tinkerers are no fools." "No," Beron said, frowning, "but where did she come from? Who are you?" The last bit directed at Nuan. "I am the daughter of two High Fae from Xian, who moved here to give their children a better life, if that is what you are demanding to know," Nuan answered tightly. Helion demanded of Beron, "What does this have to do with anything?" Beron shrugged. "If her family is from Xian--which I'll have you remember fought for the Loyalists--then whose interests does she serve?" Helion's amber eyes flashed. Thesan cut in sharply, "I will have you remember, Beron, that my own mother hailed from Xian. And a large majority of my court did as well. Be careful what you say." Before Beron could hiss a retort, Nuan said to the Lord of Autumn, her chin high, "I am a child of Prythian. I was born here, on this land, as your sons were." Beron's face darkened. "Watch your tone, girl." "She doesn't have to watch anything," I cut in. "Not when you fling that sort of horseshit at her." I looked to the alchemist. "I will take your antidote." Beron rolled his eyes. But Eris said, "Father." Beron lifted a brow. "You have something to add?" Eris didn't flinch, but he seemed to choose his words very, very carefully. "I have seen the effects of faebane." He nodded toward me. "It truly renders us unable to tap our power. If it's wielded against us in war or beyond it--" "If it is, we shall face it. I will not risk my people or family in testing out a theory." "It is no theory," Nuan said, that mechanical hand clicking and whirring as it curled into a fist. "I would not stand here unless it had been proved without a doubt." A female of pride and hard work. Eris said, "I will take it." It was the most ... decent I'd ever heard him sound. Even Mor blinked at it. Beron studied his son with a scrutiny that made some small, small part of me wonder if Eris might have grown to be a good male if he'd had a different father. If one still lurked there, beneath centuries of poison. Because Eris ... What had it been like for him, Under the Mountain? What games had he played--what had he endured? Trapped for forty-nine years. I doubted he would risk such a thing happening again. Even if it set him in opposition to his father--or perhaps because of that. Beron only said, "No, you will not. Though I'm sure your brothers will be sorry to hear it." Indeed, the others seemed rather put-out that their first barrier to the throne wasn't about to risk his life in testing Nuan's solution. Rhys said simply, "Then don't take it. I will. My entire court will, as will my armies." He gave a thankful nod to Nuan. Thesan did the same--in thanks and dismissal--and the master tinkerer bowed once more and left. "At least you have armies to give it to," Tamlin said mildly, breaking his roiling silence. A smile at me. "Though perhaps that was part of the plan. Disable my force while your own swept in. Or was it just to see my people suffer?" A headache was beginning to pound at my right temple. Those claws poked through his knuckles again. "Surely you knew that when you turned my forces on me, it would leave my people defenseless against Hybern." I said nothing. Even as I blocked the images from my mind. "You primed my court to fall," Tamlin said with venomous quiet. "And it did. Those villages you wanted so badly to help rebuild? They're nothing more than cinders now." I shut out that, too. He'd said they'd remain untouched, that Hybern had promised-- "And while you've been making antidotes and casting yourselves as saviors, I've been piecing together my forces-- regaining their trust, their numbers. Trying to gather my people in the East--where Hybern has not yet marched." Nesta said drily, "So you won't be taking the antidote, then." Tamlin ignored her, even as his claws sank into the arm of his chair. But I believed him--that he'd moved as many of his people as he could to the eastern edge of the territory. He'd said as much long before I'd returned home. Thesan cleared his throat and said to Helion, "You said you had two suggestions based on the information you analyzed." Helion shrugged, the sun catching in the embroidered gold thread of his tunic. "Indeed, though it seems Tamlin is already ahead of me. The Spring Court must be evacuated." His amber eyes darted between Tarquin and Beron. "Surely your northern neighbors will welcome them." Beron's lip curled. "We do not have the resources for such a thing." "Right," Viviane said, "because everyone's too busy polishing every jewel in that trove of yours." Beron threw her a glare that had Kallias tensing. "Wives were invited as a courtesy, not as consultants." Viviane's sapphire eyes flared as if struck by lightning. "If this war goes poorly, we'll be bleeding out right alongside you, so I think we damn well get a say in things." "Hybern will do far worse things than kill you," Beron counted coolly. "A young, pretty thing like you especially." Kallias's snarl rippled the water in the reflection pool, echoed by Mor's own growl. Beron smiled a bit. "Only three of us were present for the last war." A nod to Rhys and Helion, whose face darkened. "One does not easily forget what Hybern and the Loyalists did to captured females in their war-camps. What they reserved for High Fae females who either fought for the humans or had families who did." He put a heavy hand on his wife's too-thin arm. "Her two sisters bought her time to run when Hybern's forces ambushed their lands. The two ladies did not walk out of that war-camp again." Helion was watching Beron closely, his stare simmering with reproach. The Lady of the Autumn Court kept her focus on the reflection pool. Any trace of color drained from her face. Dagdan and Brannagh flashed through my mind--along with the corpses of those humans. What they'd done to them before and after they'd died. "We will take your people," Tarquin cut in quietly to Tamlin. "Regardless of your involvement with Hybern ... your people are innocent. There is plenty of room in my territory. We will take all of them, if need be." A curt nod was Tamlin's only acknowledgment and gratitude. Beron said, "So the Seasonal Courts are to become the charnel houses and hostels, while the Solar Courts remain pristine here in the North?" '"Hybern has focused its efforts on the southern half," Rhys said. "To be close to the wall--and human lands." At this, Nesta and I exchanged looks. Rhys went on, "Why bother to go through the northern climes--through faerie territories on the continent, when you could claim the South and use it to go directly to the human lands of the continent?" Thesan asked, "And you believe the human armies there will bow to Hybern?" "Its queens sold us out," Nesta said. She lifted her chin, poised as any emissary. "For the gift of immortality, the human queens will allow Hybern in to sweep away any resistance. They might very well hand over control of their armies to him." Nesta looked to me, to Rhys. "Where do the humans on our island go? We cannot evacuate them to the continent, and with the wall intact ... Many might rather risk waiting than cross over the wall anyway." "The fate of the humans below the wall," Beron cut in, "is none of our concern. Especially in a spit of land with no queen, no army." "It is my concern," I said, and the voice that came out of me was not Feyre the huntress or Feyre the Cursebreaker, but Feyre the High Lady. "Humans are nearly defenseless against our kind." "So go waste your own soldiers defending them," Beron said. "I will not send my own forces to protect chattel." My blood heated, and I took a breath to cool it, to cool the magic crackling at the insult. It did nothing. If it was this impossible to get all of them to ally against Hybern ... "You're a coward," I breathed to the High Lord of Autumn. Even Rhys tensed. Beron just said, "The same could be claimed of you." My stomach churned. "I don't need to explain myself to you "No, but perhaps to that girl's family--but they're dead, too, aren't they? Butchered and burned to death in their own beds. Funny, that you should now seek to defend humans when you were all too happy to offer them up to save yourself." My palms heated, as if twin suns built and swirled beneath them. Easy, Rhys purred. He's a cranky old bastard. But I could barely hear the words behind the tangle of images: Clare's mutilated body nailed to the wall; the cinders of the Beddors' house staining the snow like wisps of shadow; the smile of the Attor as it hauled me through those stone halls Under the Mountain-- "As my lady said," Rhys drawled, "she does not need to explain herself to you." Beron leaned back in his chair. "Then I suppose I don't need to explain my motivations, either." Rhys lifted a brow. "Your staggering generosity aside, will you be joining our forces?" "I have not yet decided." Eris went so far as to give his father a look bordering on reproach. From genuine alarm or for what that refusal might mean for our own covert alliance, I couldn't tell. "Armies take time to raise," Cassian said. "You don't have the luxury of sitting on your ass. You need to rally your soldiers now." Beron only sneered. "I don't take orders from the bastards of lesser fae whores." My heartbeat was so wild I could hear it in every corner of my body, feel it pounding in my arms, my gut. But it was nothing compared to the wrath on Cassian's face--or the icy rage on Azriel's and Rhys's. And the disgust on Mor's. "That bastard," Nesta said with utter coolness, though her eyes began to burn, "may wind up being the only person standing in the way of Hybern's forces and your people." She didn't so much as look at Cassian as she said it. But he stared at her--as if he'd never seen her before. This argument was pointless. And I didn't care who they were or who I was as I said to Beron, "Get out if you're not going to be helpful." At his side, Eris had the wits to actually look worried. But Beron continued to ignore his son's pointed stare and hissed at me, "Did you know that while your mate was warming Amarantha's bed, most of our people were locked beneath that mountain?" I didn't deign responding. "Did you know that while he had his head between her legs, most of us were fighting to keep our families from becoming the nightly entertainment?" I tried to shut out the images. The blinding fury at what had been done, what he'd done to keep Amarantha distracted--the secrets he still kept from shame or disinterest in sharing, I didn't know. Cassian was now trembling two seats down-- with restraint. And Rhys said nothing. Tarquin murmured, "That's enough, Beron." Tarquin, who had guessed at Rhysand's sacrifice, his motives. Beron ignored him. "And now Rhysand wants to play hero. Amarantha's Whore becomes Hybern's Destroyer. But if it goes badly ..." A cruel, cold smile. "Will he get on his knees for Hybern? Or just spread his--" I stopped hearing the words. Stopped hearing anything other than my heart, my breathing. Fire exploded out of me. Raging, white-hot flame that blasted into Beron like a lance. <|title|>Chapter 46 <|startofchapter|>Beron shielded barely fast enough to block me, but the wake singed Eris's arm--tright through the cloth. And the pale, lovely arm of Lucien's mother. The others shouted, shooting to their feet, but I couldn't think, couldn't hear anything but Eris's words, see those moments Under the Mountain, see that nightmare of Amarantha leading Rhys down the hall, what Rhys had endured-- Feyre. I ignored it as I stood. And sent a wave of water from the reflection pond to encircle Beron and his chair. A bubble without air. Flame pounded against it, turning water to steam, but I pushed harder. I'd kill him. Kill him and gladly be done with it. Feyre. I couldn't tell if Rhysand was yelling it, if he was murmuring it down the bond. Maybe both. Beron's flame barrier slammed into my water, hard enough that ripples began to form, steam hissing amongst them. So I bared my teeth and sent a fist of white light punching into that fiery shield--the white light of Day. Spell-breaker. Ward-cleaver. Beron's eyes widened as his shields began to fray. As that water pushed in. Then hands were on my face. And violet eyes were before mine, calm and yet insistent. "You've proved your point, my love," Rhys said. "Kill him, and horrible Eris will take his place." Then I'll kill all of them. "As interesting an experiment as that might be," Rhys crooned, "it would only complicate the matters at hand." Into my mind he whispered, I love you. The words of that hateful bastard don't mean anything. He has nothing of joy in his life. Nothing good. We do. I began to hear things--the trickling water of the pool, the crackle of flames, the quick breathing of those around us, the cursing of Beron trapped in that tightening cocoon of light and water. I love you, Rhys said again. And I let go of my magic. Beron's flames exploded like an unfurling flower--and bounced harmlessly off the shield Rhys had thrown around us. Not to shield against Beron. But the other High Lords were now on their feet. "That was how you got through my wards," Tarquin murmured. Beron was panting so hard he looked like he might spew fire. But Helion rubbed his jaw as he sat down once more. "I wondered where it went--that little bit. So small--tike a fish missing a single scale. But I still felt whenever something brushed against that empty spot." A smirk at Rhys. "No wonder you made her High Lady." "I made her High Lady," Rhys said simply, lowering his hands from my face but not leaving my side, "because I love her. Her power was the last thing I considered." I was beyond words, beyond basic feelings. Helion asked Tamlin, "You knew of her powers?" Tamlin was only watching me and Rhys, my mate's declaration hanging between us. "It was none of your business," was all Tamlin said to Helion. To all of them. "The power belongs to us. I think it is," Beron seethed. Mor leveled a look at Beron that would have sent lesser males running. The Lady of Autumn was clutching her arm, angry red splattered along the moon-white skin. No glimmer of pain on that face, though. I said to her as I reclaimed my seat, "I'm sorry." Her eyes lifted toward mine, round as saucers. Beron spat, "Don't talk to her, you human filth." Rhys shattered through Beron's shield, his fire, his defenses. Shattered through them like a stone hurled into a window, and slammed his dark power into Beron so hard he rocked back in his seat. Then that seat disintegrated into black, sparkling dust beneath him. Leaving Beron to fall on his ass. Glittering ebony dust drifted away on a phantom wind, staining Beron's crimson jacket, clinging like clumps of ash to his brown hair. "Don't ever," Rhys said, hands sliding into his pockets, "speak to my mate like that again." Beron shot to his feet, not bothering to brush off the dust, and declared to no one in particular, "This meeting is over. I hope Hybern butchers you all." But Nesta rose from her chair. "This meeting is not over." Even Beron paused at her tone. Eris sized up the space between my sister and his father. She stood tall, a pillar of steel. "You are all there is," she said to Beron, to all of us. "You are all that there is between Hybern and the end of everything that is good and decent." She settled her stare on Beron, unflinching and fierce. "You fought against Hybern in the last war. Why do you refuse to do so now?" Beron did not deign to answer. But he did not leave. Eris subtly motioned his brothers to sit. Nesta marked the gesture--hesitated. As if realizing she indeed held their complete attention. That every word mattered. "You may hate us. I don't care if you do. But I do care if you let innocents suffer and die. At least stand for them. Your people. For Hybern will make an example of them. Of all of us." "And you know this how?" Beron sneered. "I went into the Cauldron," Nesta said flatly. "It showed me his heart. He will bring down the wall, and butcher those on either side of it." Truth or lie, I could not tell. Nesta's face revealed nothing. And no one dared contradict her. She looked to Kallias and Viviane. "I am sorry for the loss of those children. The loss of one is abhorrent." She shook her head. "But beneath the wall, I witnessed children--entire families--starve to death." She jerked her chin at me. "Were it not for my sister ... I would be among them." My eyes burned, but I blinked it away. "Too long," Nesta said. "For too long have humans beneath the wall suffered and died while you in Prythian thrived. Not during that--queen's reign." She recoiled, as if hating to even speak Amarantha's name. "But long before. If you fight for anything--fight now, to protect those you forgot. Let them know they're not forgotten. Just this once." Thesan cleared his throat. "While a noble sentiment, the details of the Treaty did not demand we provide for our human neighbors. They were to be left alone. So we obeyed." Nesta remained standing. "The past is the past. What I care about is the road ahead. What I care about is making sure no children--Fae or human--are harmed. You have been entrusted with protecting this land." She scanned the faces around her. "How can you not fight for it?" She looked to Beron and his family as she finished. Only the Lady and Eris seemed to be considering--impressed, even, by the strange, simmering woman before them. I didn't have the words in me--to convey what was in my heart. Cassian seemed the same. Beron only said, "I shall consider it." A look at his family, and they vanished. Eris was the last to winnow, something conflicted dancing over his face, as if this was not the outcome he'd planned for. Expected. But then he, too, was gone, the space where they'd been empty save for that black, glittering dust. Slowly, Nesta sat, her face again cold--as if it were a mask to conceal whatever raged in her at Beron's disappearance. Kallias asked me quietly, "Did you master the ice?" I gave a shallow nod. "All of it." Kallias scrubbed at his face as Viviane set a hand on his arm. "Does it make a difference, Kal?" "I don't know," he admitted. That fast, this alliance unraveled. That fast--because of my lack of control, my-- It either would have been this or something else, Rhys said from where he stood beside my chair, one hand toying with the glittering panels on the back of my gown. Better now than later. Kallias wont break--he just needs to sort it through on his own. But Tarquin said, "You saved us Under the Mountain. Losing a kernel of power seems a worthy payment." "It seems she took far more than that," Helion argued, "if she could be within seconds of drowning Beron despite the wards." Perhaps I'd gotten around them simply by being Made --outside anything the wards knew to recognize. Helion's power, warm and clear, brushed against the shield, trawling through the air between us. As if testing for a tether. As if I were some parasite, leeching power from him. And he'd gladly sever it. Thesan declared, "What's done is done. Short of killing her'-- Rhys's power roiled through the room at the words --'there is nothing we can do." It wasn't entirely placating, his tone. Words of peace, yet the tone was terse. As if, were it not for Rhys and his power, he'd consider tying me down on an altar and cutting me open to see where his power was--and how to take it back. I stood, looking Thesan in the eye. Then Helion. Tarquin. Kallias. Exactly as Nesta had done. "I did not take your power. You gave it to me, along with the gift of my immortal life. I am grateful for both. But they are mine now. And I will do with them what I will." My friends had risen to their feet, now in rank behind me, Nesta at my left. Rhys stepped up to my right, but did not touch me. Let me stand on my own, stare them all down. I said quietly, but not weakly, "I will use these powers--my powers--to smash Hybern to bits. I will burn them, and drown them, and freeze them. I will use these powers to heal the injured. To shatter through Hybern's wards. I have done so already, and I will do so again. And if you think that my possession of a kernel of your magic is your biggest problem, then your priorities are severely out of order." Pride flickered down the bond. The High Lords and their retinues said nothing. But Viviane nodded, chin high, and rose. "I will fight with you. Cresseida stood a heartbeat later. "As will I." Both of them looked to the males in their court. Tarquin and Kallias rose. Then Helion, smirking at me and Rhys. And finally Thesan--Thesan and Tamlin, who did not so much as breathe in my direction, had barely moved or spoken these past few minutes. It was the least of my concerns, so long as they all were standing. Six out of seven. Rhys chuckled down the bond. Not bad, Cursebreaker. Not bad at all. <|title|>Chapter 47 <|startofchapter|>Our alliance did not begin well. Even though we talked for a good two hours afterward ... the bickering, the back-and-forth, continued. With Tamlin there, none would declare what numbers they had, what weapons, what weaknesses. As the afternoon slipped into evening, Thesan pushed back his chair. "You are all welcome to stay the night and resume this discussion in the morning--unless you wish to return to your own homes for the evening." We're staying, Rhysand said. I need to talk to some of the others alone. Indeed, the others seemed to have similar thoughts, for all decided to stay. Even Tamlin. We were shown toward the suites appointed for us--the sunstone turning a deep gold in the late-afternoon sun. Tamlin was escorted away first, by Thesan himself and a trembling attendant. He had wisely chosen not to attack Rhys or me during the debating, though his refusal to even acknowledge us did not go unnoticed. And as he left, back stiff and steps clipped, he did not say a word. Good. Then Tarquin was led out, then Helion. Until only Kallias's party and our own waited. Rhys rose from his seat and dragged a hand through his hair. "That went well. It would seem none of us won our bet about who'd fight first." Azriel stared at the floor, stone-faced. "Sorry." The word was emotionless--distant. He had not spoken, had barely moved, since his savage attack. It had taken Mor thirty minutes after it to stop shaking. "He had it coming," Viviane said. "Eris is a piece of shit." Kallias turned to his mate with high brows. "What?" She put a hand on her chest. "He is." "Be that as it may," Kallias said with cool humor, "the question remains about whether Beron will fight with us." "If all the others are allying," Mor said hoarsely, her first words in hours, "Beron will join. He's too smart to risk siding with Hybern and losing. And I'm sure if things go badly, he'll easily switch over." Rhys nodded, but faced Kallias. "How many troops do you have?" "Not enough. Amarantha did her job well." Again, that ripple of guilt that pulsed down the bond. "We've got the army that Viv commanded and hid, but not much else. You?" Rhys didn't reveal a whisper of the tension that tightened in me, as if it were my own. "We have sizable forces. Mostly Illyrian legions. And a few thousand Darkbringers. But we'll need every soldier who can march." Viviane walked to where Mor remained seated, still pale, and braced her hands on my friend's shoulders. "I always knew we'd fight alongside each other one day." Mor dragged her brown eyes up. But she glanced toward Kallias, who seemed to be trying his best not to appear worried. Mor gave the High Lord a look as if to say PU take care of her before she smiled at Viviane. "It's almost enough to make me feel bad for Hybern." "Almost." Viviane grinned wickedly. "But not quite." We were led to a suite built around a lavish sitting area and private dining room. All of it carved from that sunstone, bedecked in jewel-toned fabrics, broad cushions clumped along the thick carpets, and overlooked by ornate golden cages filled with birds of all shapes and sizes. I'd spied peacocks parading about the countless courtyards and gardens as we'd walked through Thesan's home, some preening in the shade beneath potted fig trees. "How did Thesan keep Amarantha from trashing this place?" I asked Rhys as we surveyed the sitting room that opened to the hazy sprawl of countryside far, far below. "It's his private residence." Rhys dismissed his wings and slumped onto a pile of emerald cushions near the darkened fireplace. "He likely shielded it the same way Kallias and I did." A decision that would weigh heavily on them for many centuries, I had no doubt. But I looked to Azriel, currently leaning against the wall beside the floor-to-ceiling window, shadows fluttering around him. Even the birds in their cages nearby remained silent. I said down the bond, Js he all right? Rhys tucked his hands behind his head, though his mouth tightened. Likely not, but if we try to talk to him about it, it'll only make it worse. Mor was indeed sprawled on a couch--one wary eye on Azriel. Cassian sat beside her, holding her feet in his lap. He'd taken the spot closer to Azriel--right between them. As if he'd leap into their path if need be. You handled it beautifully, Rhys added. All of it. Despite my explosion? Because of your explosion. I met his stare, sensing the emotions swirling beneath as I claimed a seat in an overstuffed chair near my mate's pillow- mound. I knew that you were powerful. But I didn't realize that you had such an advantage on the others. Rhys's eyes shuttered, even as he gave me a half smile. I'm not sure even Beron knew until today. Suspected, maybe, but ... He'll now be wishing he'd found a way to kill me in the cradle. A shiver skittered down my spine. He knows about Elain being Luciens mate. He makes a move to harm or take her, and he's dead. Uncompromising will swept over the stars in his eyes. PUH kill him myself if he does. Or hold him long enough for you to do the job. I think I'd enjoy watching you. I'll keep it in mind for your next birthday. I drummed my fingers on the polished arm of the chair, the wood as smooth as glass. Do you really believe Tamlin's claim that he's been working for our side? Yes. A beat of silence down the bond. And perhaps we did him a disservice by not even considering the possibility. Perhaps even I started to think him some warrior brute. I felt tired--in my bones, my breath. Does it change anything, though? In some ways, yes. In others ... Rhys surveyed me. No. No, it does not. I blinked, realizing I'd been lost in the bond, but found Azriel still by the window, Cassian now rubbing Mor's feet. Nesta had retired to her own room without a word--and remained there. I wondered if Beron's leaving despite her words ... Perhaps it had thrown her. I got to my feet, straightening the folds of my shimmering gown. I should check on Nesta. Talk to her. Rhys nestled deeper into his spread of pillows, tucking his hands behind his head. She did well today. Pride fluttered at the praise as I crossed the room. But I got as far as the foyer archway when a knock thudded on the door that opened into the sunny hallway. I halted, the sheer panels of my dress swaying, sparkling like pale blue fire in the golden light. "Don't open it," Mor warned from her spot on the couch. "Even with the shield, don't open it." Rhys uncoiled to his feet. "Wise," he said, prowling past me to the front door, "but unnecessary." He opened the door, revealing Helion--alone. Helion braced a hand on the door frame and grinned. "How'd you convince Thesan to give you the better view?" "He finds my males to be prettier than yours, I think." "I think it's a wing fetish." Rhys laughed and opened the door wider, beckoning him in. "You've really mastered the swaggering prick performance, by the way. Expertly done." Helion's robe swayed with his graceful steps, brushing his powerful thighs. He spied me standing by the round table in the center of the foyer and bowed. Deeply. "Apologies for the bastard act," he said to me. "Old habits and all." Here it was--the amusement and joy in his amber eyes. The lightness that led to my own glow when lost to pure bliss. Helion frowned at Rhys. "You were on unnaturally nice behavior today. I was betting Beron would be dead by the end of it--you can't imagine my shock that he walked out alive." "My mate suggested it would be in our favor to appear as we truly are." "Well, now I look as bad as Beron." He strode straight past me with a wink, stalking into the sitting room. He grinned at Azriel. "You handing Eris's ass to him will be my new fantasy at night, by the way." Azriel didn't so much as bother to look over his shoulder at the High Lord. But Cassian snorted. "I was wondering when the come-ons would begin." Helion threw himself onto the couch across from Cassian and Mor. He'd ditched that radiant crown somewhere, but kept that gold armband of the upright serpent. "It's been what-- four centuries now, and you three still haven't accepted my offer." Mor lolled her head to the side. "I don't like to share, unfortunately." "You never know until you try," Helion purred. The three of them in bed ... with him? I must have been blinking like a fool because Rhys said to me, Helion favors both males and females. Usually together in his bed. And has been hounding after that trio for centuries. I considered--Helion's beauty and the others ... Why the hell haven't they said yes? Rhys barked a laugh that had all of them looking at him with raised brows. My mate just came up behind me and slid his arms around my waist, pressing a kiss to my neck. Would you like someone to join us in bed, Feyre darling? My skin stretched tight over my bones at the tone, the suggestion. You re incorrigible. I think you'd like two males worshipping you. My toes curled. Mor cleared her throat. "Whatever you're saying mind to mind, either share it or go to another room so we don't have to sit here, stewing in your scents." I stuck out my tongue. Rhys laughed again, kissing my neck once more before saying, "Apologies for offending your delicate sensibilities, cousin." I pushed out of his embrace, out of the touch that still made me dizzy enough that basic thought became difficult, and claimed a chair adjacent to Mor and Cassian's couch. Cassian said to Helion, "Are your forces ready?" Helion's amusement faded--reshaping into that hard, calculating exterior. "Yes. They'll rendezvous with yours in the Myrmidons." The mountain range we shared at our border. He'd refused to divulge such information earlier. "Good," Cassian said, rubbing at the arch of Mor's foot. "We'll push south from there." "With the final encampment being where?" Mor asked, withdrawing her foot from Cassian's hands and tucking both feet beneath her. Helion traced the curve of her bare leg, his amber eyes a bit glazed as he met hers. Mor didn't balk from the heated look. And a keen sort of awareness seemed to overtake her--like every nerve in her body shook awake. I didn't dare look toward Azriel. There must have been multiple shields around the room, around every crack and opening where spying eyes and ears might be waiting, because Cassian said, "We join Thesan's forces, then eventually make camp along Kallias's southwestern border--near the Summer Court." Helion drew his gaze from Mor long enough to ask Rhys, "You and pretty Tarquin had a moment today. Do you truly think he'll join us?" "If you mean in bed, definitely not," Rhys said with a wry smile as he again sprawled on his spread of cushions. "But if you mean in this war ... Yes. I believe he means to fight. Beron, on the other hand ..." "Hybern is focusing on the South," Helion said. "And regardless of what you think Tamlin's up to, the Spring Court is now mostly occupied. Beron has to realize his court will be a battleground if he doesn't join us to push southward-- especially if Summer has joined us." Meaning the Spring Court and human lands would see the brunt of the battles. "Will Beron choose to listen to reason, though?" Mor mused. Helion tapped a finger against the carved arm of his couch. "He played games in the War and it cost him--dearly. His people still remember those choices--those losses. His own damn wife remembers." Helion had looked at the Lady of Autumn repeatedly during the meeting. I asked, carefully and casually, "What do you mean?" Mor shook her head--not at what I'd said, but at whatever had occurred. Helion fixed his full attention upon me. It was an effort not to flinch at the weight of that focus, the simmering intensity. The muscled body was only a mask--to hide that cunning mind beneath. I wondered if Rhys had picked that up from him. Helion folded an ankle over a knee. "The Lady of the Autumn Court's two older sisters were indeed ..." He searched for a word. "Butchered. Tormented, and then butchered, during the War." I shut out Nesta's screaming, shut out Elain's sobbing as she was hauled toward that Cauldron. Lucien's aunts. Dead before he'd ever existed. Had his mother ever told him this story? Rhys explained to me, "Hybern's forces had swarmed our lands by that point." Helion's jaw clenched. "The Lady of the Autumn Court was sent to stay with her sisters, her younger children packed off to other relatives. To spread out the bloodline." He dragged a hand through his sable hair. "Hybern attacked their estate. Her sisters bought her time to run. Not because she was married to Beron, but because they loved each other. Fiercely. She tried to stay, but they convinced her to go. So she did-- she ran and ran, but Hybern's beasts were still faster. Stronger. They cornered her at a ravine, where she became trapped atop a ledge, the beasts snapping at her feet." He didn't speak for a long moment. Too many details. He knew so many details. I said quietly, "You saved her. You found her, didn't you?" A coronet of light seemed to flicker over that thick black hair. "I did." There was enough weight, anger, and something else in those two words that I studied the High Lord of Day. "What happened?" Helion didn't break my stare. "I tore the beasts apart with my bare hands." A chill slid down my spine. "Why?" He could have ended it a thousand other ways. Easier ways. Cleaner ways. Rhys's bloody hands after the Ravens' attack flashed through my mind. Helion didn't so much as shift in his chair. "She was still young--though she'd been married to that delightful male for nearly two decades. Married too young, the marriage arranged when she was twenty." The words were clipped. And twenty--so young. Nearly as young as Mor had been when her own family tried to marry her to Eris. "So?" A dangerous, taunting question. And how his eyes burned at that, flaring bright as suns. But it was Mor who said coolly, "I heard a rumor once, Helion, that she waited before agreeing to that marriage. For a certain someone who had met her by chance at an equinox ball the year before." I tried not to blink, not to let any of my rising interest surface. The fire banked to embers and Helion threw a half smile in Mor's direction. "Interesting. I heard her family wanted internal ties to power, and that they didn't give her a choice before they sold her to Beron." Sold her. Mor's nostrils flared. Cassian ran a hand down the back of her hair. Azriel didn't so much as turn from his vigil at the window, though I could have sworn his wings tucked in a bit tighter. "Too bad they're just rumors," Rhys cut in smoothly, "and can't be confirmed by anyone." Helion merely toyed with the gold cuff on his sculpted arm, twisting the serpent to the center of his bicep. But I furrowed my brows. "Does Beron know you saved his wife in the War?" He hadn't mentioned anything during the meeting. Helion let out a dark laugh. "Cauldron, no." There was enough wry, knowing humor that I straightened. "You had--an affair after you rescued her?" The amusement only grew, and Helion pushed a finger against his lips in mock warning. "Careful, High Lady. Even the birds report to Thesan here." I frowned at the birds in cages throughout the room, still silent in Azriel's shadowy presence. I threw shields around them, Rhys said down the bond. "How long did the affair last?" I asked. That withdrawn female ... I couldn't imagine it. Helion snorted. "Is that a polite question for a High Lady to be asking?" But the way he spoke, that smile ... I only waited, using silence to push him instead. Helion shrugged. "On and off for decades. Until Beron found out. They say the lady was all brightness and smiles before that. And after Beron was through with her ... You saw what she is." "What did he do to her?" "The same things he does now." Helion waved a hand. "Belittle her, leave bruises where no one but him will see them." I clenched my teeth. "If you were her lover, why didn't you stop it?" The wrong thing to say. Utterly wrong, by the dark fury that rippled across Helion's face. "Beron is a High Lord, and she is his wife, mother of his brood. She chose to stay. Chose. And with the protocols and rules, Lady, you will find that most situations like the one you were in do not end well for those who interfere." I didn't back down, didn't apologize. "You barely even looked at her today." "We have more important matters at hand." "Beron never called you out for it?" "To publicly do so would be to admit that his possession made a fool of him. So we continue our little dance, these centuries later." I somehow doubted that beneath that roguish charm and irreverence, Helion felt it was a dance at all. But if it had ended centuries ago, and she'd never seen him again, had let Beron treat her so abominably ... Whatever you've just figured out, Rhys said, you'd better stop looking so shocked by it. I forced a smile to my face. "You High Lords really do love your melodrama, don't you?" Helion's own smile didn't reach his eyes. But Rhys asked, "In your libraries, have you ever encountered a mention of how the wall might be repaired?" Helion began asking why we wanted to know, what Hybern was doing with the Cauldron ... and Rhys fed him answers, easily and smoothly. While we spoke, I said down the bond, Helion is Lucien s father. Rhys was silent. Then-- Holy burning hell. His shock was a shooting star between us. I let my gaze dart through the room, half paying attention to Helion's musing on the wall and how to repair it, then dared study the High Lord for a heartbeat. Look at him. The nose is the same, the smile. The voice. Even Lucien's skin is darker than his brothers'. A golden brown compared to their pale coloring. It would explain why his father and brothers detest him so much--why they have tormented him his entire life. My heart squeezed at that. And why Eris didn't want him dead. He wasn't a threat to Eriss power--his throne. I swallowed. Helion has no idea, does he? It would seem not. The Lady of Autumn's favorite son--not only from Lucien's goodness. But because he was the child she'd dreamed of having ... with the male she undoubtedly loved. Beron must have discovered the affair when she was pregnant with Lucien. He likely suspected, but there was no way to prove it--not if she was sharing his bed, too. Rhys's disgust was a tang in my mouth. I have no doubt Beron debated killing her for the betrayal, and even afterward. When Lucien could be passable as his own offspring--just enough to make him doubt who had sired his last son. I wrapped my head around it. Lucien not Beron's son, but Helion's. His power is flame, though. They've mused Beron's title could go to him. His mother s family is strong--that was why Beron wanted a bride from their line. The gift could be hers. You never suspected? Not once. I'm mortified I didn't even consider it. What does this mean, though? Nothing--ultimately nothing. Other than the fact that Lucien might be Helion s sole heir. And that ... it changed nothing in this war. Especially not with Lucien on the continent, hunting that enchanted queen. A bird of flame ... and a lord of fire. I wondered if they'd found each other yet. A door opened and shut in the foyer beyond, and I braced myself as Nesta appeared. Helion paused his debating the wall to survey her carefully, as he had done earlier. Spell-Cleaver. That was his title. She surveyed him with her usual disdain. But Helion gave her the same bow he'd offered me-- though his smile was edged with enough sensuality that even my heart raced a bit. No wonder the Lady of Autumn hadn't stood a chance. "I don't think we were introduced properly earlier," he crooned to Nesta. "I'm--" "I don't care," Nesta said with a snap of her wrist, striding right past him and up to my side. "I'd like a word," she said. "Now." Cassian was biting his knuckle to keep from laughing--at the utter surprise and shock on Helion's face. It wasn't every day, I supposed, that anyone of either sex dismissed him so thoroughly. I threw the High Lord a semi-apologetic glance and led my sister out of the room. "What is it?" I asked when Nesta and I had entered her bedroom, the space bedecked in pink silk and gold, accents of ivory scattered throughout. The lavishness of it indeed put our various homes to shame. "We need to leave," Nesta said. "Right now." Every sense went on alert. "Why?" "It feels wrong. Something feels wrong." I studied her, the clear sky beyond the towering, drape- framed windows. "Rhys and the others would sense it. You're likely just picking up on all the power gathered here." "Something is wrong," Nesta insisted. "I'm not doubting you feel that way but ... If none of the others are picking it up--" "I am not like the others." Her throat bobbed. "We need to leave." "I can send you back to Velaris, but we have things to discuss here--" "I don't care about me, I" The door opened, and Cassian stalked in, face grave. The sight of the wings, the Illyrian armor in this opulent, pink- filled room planted itself in my mind, the painting already taking form, as he said, "What's wrong." He studied every inch of her. As if there were nothing and no one else here, anywhere. But I said, "She senses something is off--says we need to leave right away." I waited for the dismissal, but Cassian angled his head. "What, precisely, feels wrong?" Nesta stiffened, mouth pursing as she weighed his tone. "It feels like there's this ... dread. This sense that ... that I forgot something but can't remember what." Cassian stared at her for a moment longer. "I'll tell Rhys." And he did. Within moments, Rhys, Cassian, and Azriel had vanished, leaving Mor and Helion in alert silence. I waited with Nesta. Five minutes. Ten. Fifteen. Thirty minutes later, they returned, shaking their heads. Nothing. Not in the palace, not in the lands around it, not in the skies above or the earth below. Not for miles and miles. Nothing. Rhys even checked with Amren, and found nothing amiss in Velaris--Elain, mercifully, safe and sound. None of them, however, were stupid enough to suggest that Nesta had made it up. Not with that otherworldly power in her veins. Or that perhaps the dread was a lingering effect of her time in Hybern. Like the crushing panic that I'd struggled to face down, that still stalked me some nights. So we stayed. We ate in our private dining room, Helion joining us, no sign of Tarquin or Thesan--certainly not Tamlin. Kallias and Viviane appeared midway through the meal, and Mor kicked Cassian out of his seat to make space for her friend. They chatted and gossiped--even though Mor kept glancing at Helion. And the High Lord of Day kept glancing at her. Azriel barely spoke, those shadows still perched on his shoulders. Mor barely looked at him. But we dined and drank for hours, until night was overhead. And though Rhys and Kallias were tense, careful around each other ... By the end of the meal, they were at least talking. Nesta was the first to leave the table, still wary and on edge. The others made one final check of the grounds before we tumbled into the silk sheets of our cloud-soft beds. Rhys and I left Mor and Helion talking knee to knee on the sitting room cushions, Viviane and Kallias long returned to their suite. I had no idea where Azriel went off to--or Cassian, for that matter. And when I emerged from washing up in the ivory-and- gold bathing room and Helion's deep murmur and Mor's sultry laugh flitted in from the hall--when it moved past our door and then her door creaked open and closed ... Rhysand's wings were folded in tightly as he surveyed the stars beyond the bedroom windows. Quieter and smaller here, somehow. "Why?" He knew what I meant. "Mor gets spooked. And what Az did today scared the shit out of her." "The violence?" "The violence as a result of what he feels, lingering guilt over the deal with Eris--and what neither of them will face." "Don't you think it's been long enough? And that taking Helion to bed is likely the worst possible thing to do?" But I had no doubt Helion needed a distraction as much as Mor did. From thinking too long about the people they loved --who they could not have. "Mor and Azriel have both taken lovers throughout the centuries," he said, wings shifting slightly. "The only difference here is the close proximity." "You sound remarkably fine with this." Rhys glanced over a shoulder to where I lingered by the foot of the massive ivory bed, its carved headboard fashioned after overlapping waterlilies. "It's their life--their relationship. They have both had plenty of opportunities to confess what they feel. Yet they have not. Mor especially. For private reasons of her own, I'm sure. My meddling isn't going to make it any better." "But--but he loves her. How can he sit idly by?" "He thinks she's happier without him." His eyes shone with the memory--of his own choice to sit back. "He thinks he's unworthy of her." "It seems like an Illyrian trait." Rhys snorted, returning to the stars. I came up to his side and slid my arm around his waist. He opened his arm to me, cupping my shoulder as I rested my head against that soft spot where his own shoulder met his chest. A heartbeat later, his wing curved around me, too, enveloping me in his shadowed warmth. "There will come a day when Azriel has to decide if he is going to fight for her or let her go. And it won't be because some other male insults her or beds her." "And what about Cassian? He's entangled--and enabling this nonsense." A wry smile. "Cassian is going to have to decide some things, too. In the near future, I think." "Are he and Nesta ...?" "I don't know. Until the bond snaps into place, it can be hard to detect." Rhys swallowed once, gaze fixed on the stars. I simply waited. "Tamlin still loves you, you know." "I know." "That was an ugly encounter." "All of it was ugly," I said. What Beron and Tamlin had brought up with Amarantha, what Rhys had been forced to reveal ... "Are you all right?" I could still feel the clamminess of his hand upon mine as he spoke of what Amarantha had done. He brushed a thumb down my shoulder. "It wasn't ... easy." He amended, "I thought I'd vomit all over the floor." I squeezed him a little tighter. "I'm sorry you had to share those things--sorry you ... sorry for all of it, Rhys." I breathed in his scent, taking it deep into my lungs. Out--we had made it out. "And I know it likely means nothing, but ... I'm proud of you. That you were brave enough to tell them." "It doesn't mean nothing," he said softly. "That you feel that way about me--about today." He kissed my temple, and warmth flickered along the bond. "It means ..." His wing curved closer around me. "I don't have the words to tell you what it means." But as that love, that joy and light shimmered through the bond ... I understood. He peered down at me. "And are you ... all right?" I nestled my head further into his chest. "I just feel ... tired. Sad. Sad that it turned so awful--and yet ... yet furious about everything that happened to me, to my sisters. I ..." I blew out a long breath. When I was back at the Spring Court ..." I swallowed. "I looked--for their wings." Rhys went utterly still, and I took his hand, squeezing hard as he only said, "Did you find them?" The words were barely a brush of air. I shook my head, but said before the grief on his face could grow, "I learned that he burned them--long ago." Rhys said nothing for a lingering moment, his attention returning to the stars. "Thank you for even thinking--for risking to look for them." The only trace--the horrific remnants--of his mother and sister. "I didn't ... Pm glad he burned them," Rhys admitted. "I could happily kill him, for so many things, and yet ..." He rubbed his chest. "I'm glad he offered them that peace, at least." I nodded. "I know." I ran my thumb over the back of his hand. And perhaps because of the raw, stark quiet, I confessed, "It feels strange, to share a room, a bed, with you under the same roof as him." "I can imagine." For somewhere in this palace, Tamlin was lying in bed-- well aware that I was about to enter this one with Rhysand. The past tangled and snarled, and I whispered, "I don't think --I don't think I can have sex here. With him so close." Rhys remained quiet. "I'm sorry if--" "You don't need to apologize. Ever." I looked up, finding his gaze on me--not angry or frustrated, but ... sad. Knowing. "I want to share this bed with you, though," I breathed. "I want you to hold me." Stars flickered to life in his eyes. "Always," he promised, kissing my brow, his wings now enveloping me completely. "Always." <|title|>Chapter 48 <|startofchapter|>Helion slipped from Mor's room before we were awake-- though I certainly heard them throughout the night. Enough so that Rhys put a shield around our room. Azriel and Cassian didn't return at all. Mor didn't look like a female who had been tumbling with a gorgeous High Lord, however, as she picked at her breakfast. There was something vacant in her brown eyes, a paleness to her ordinarily golden skin. Cassian strutted in at last, greeting Mor with a chipper, "You look terrible--Helion keep you up all night?" She threw her spoon at him. Then her porridge. Cassian caught the first and shielded against the other, his Siphon blazing like an awakening ember. Porridge slid to the floor. "Helion wanted you to join," she mildly replied, refilling her tea. "Quite badly." "Maybe next time," Cassian said, dropping into the seat beside me. "How's your sister?" "She seemed fine--still worried." I didn't ask where he and Azriel had been all night. If only because I wasn't sure Mor wanted to hear the answer. Cassian served himself from the platters of fruits and pastries, frowning at the lack of meat. "Ready for another day full of arguing and plotting?" Mor and I grumbled. Rhys strode in, hair still damp from his bath, and grinned. "That's the spirit." Despite the fraught day ahead, I smiled at my mate. He'd held me all night, tucked against his chest, his wing draped over me. A different sort of intimacy than the sex-- deeper. Our souls entwined, holding tight. I'd awoken to his wing still over me, his breath tickling my ear. My throat had closed up as I'd studied his sleeping face, my chest tightening to the point of pain. I was well aware how wildly I loved him, but looking at him then ... I felt it in every pore of my body, felt it as if it might crush me, consume me. And the next time someone insulted him ... The thought was still prowling through my mind as we finished breakfast, dressed, and returned to that chamber atop the palace. To begin forming the backbone of this alliance. I kept the crown from yesterday, but swapped my Starfall gown for one of glittering black, the dress made up of solid ebony silk overlaid with shimmering obsidian gossamer. Its skirts flowed behind me, the tight sleeves tapered to points that brushed the center of my hand, looped into place around my middle finger with an attached onyx ring. If I was a fallen star yesterday, today Rhys's mysterious clothier had made me into the Queen of the Night. The rest of my companions had dressed accordingly. Yesterday, we had been ourselves--open and friendly and caring. Today we showed the other courts what we'd unleash upon our enemies. What we were capable of if provoked. Helion was back to his edged, swaggering aloofness, lounging in his chair as we entered that lovely chamber atop one of the palace's many gilded towers. He gave Mor an extra glance, lips curving in sensual amusement. He was resplendent today in robes of cobalt edged in gold that offset his gleaming brown skin, golden sandals upon his feet. Azriel, shadows wafting from his shoulders and trailing at his feet, ignored him as he passed. The shadowsinger hadn't shown a flicker of emotion, however, to Mor when he'd met us in the foyer. She hadn't asked where he'd been all night and morning, and Azriel had volunteered nothing. But he didn't seem inclined to ignore her, at least. No, he'd just settled back into his usual watchful quiet, and Mor had been content to let him, slumping a bit in relief as soon as he'd turned to lead us to the meeting, likely having already scouted the walk minutes ago. Thesan was the only person who bothered to greet us when we passed through that wisteria-draped archway, but he took one look at our attire, our faces, and muttered a prayer to the Cauldron. His lover, clad in his captain's armor once more, sized us up, his wings flaring slightly, but kept seated with the other Peregryns. Tamlin arrived last, raking his gaze over all of us as he sat. I didn't bother to acknowledge him. And Helion didn't wait for Thesan to beckon to begin. He merely crossed an ankle over a knee and said, "I thoroughly reviewed the charts and figures you've compiled, Tamlin." "And?" Tamlin bit out. Today would go incredibly well, then. "And," Helion said simply, no trace of the laughing, easy male of the night before, "if you can rally your forces quickly, you and Tarquin might be able to hold the front line long enough for those of us above the Middle to bring the larger hosts." "It's not that easy," Tamlin said through his teeth. "I have a third of them left." A seething look toward me. "After Feyre destroyed their faith in me." I had done that--in my rage, my need for vengeance ... I had not thought long-term. Had not considered that perhaps we would need that army. But-- Nesta let out a breathy, sharp noise and surged from her chair. I lunged for her, nearly tripping over the skirts of my dress as she staggered back, a hand clutching at her chest. Another step would have taken her stumbling into the reflection pool, but Mor sprang forward, gripping her. "What's wrong?" Mor demanded, holding my sister upright as her face contorted in what looked to be--pain. Confusion and pain. Sweat beaded on Nesta's brow, though her face went deathly pale. "Something ..." The word was cut off by a low groan. She sagged, and Mor caught her fully, scanning Nesta's face. Cassian was instantly there, his hand at her back, teeth bared at the invisible threat. "Nesta," I said, reaching for her. Nesta seized--then twisted past Cassian to empty her stomach into the reflection pool. "Poison?" Kallias asked, pushing Viviane behind him. She merely stepped around his arm. Tamlin remained seated, his jaw a hard line, monitoring us all. But Helion and Thesan strode forward, grim and focused. Helion's power flickered around him like blindingly bright fireflies, darting to my sister, landing on her gently. Thesan, glowing gold and rosy, laid a hand on Nesta's arm. Healing. "Nothing," they said together. Nesta rested her head against Mor's shoulder, her breathing ragged. "Something is wrong," she managed to say. "Not with me. Not me." But with the Cauldron. Rhys was having some sort of silent conversation with Azriel and Cassian, the latter monitoring every breath my sister took. But the two Illyrians nodded to Rhys, and began stalking for the open windows--to fly out. Nesta moaned, body tensing as if she'd vomit again. But then we felt it. A shuddering through the earth. Through air and stone and green, growing things. As if some great god blew a breath across the land. Then the impact came. Rhys threw himself over me so fast I didn't register wholly that the mountain itself shook, that the building swayed. We hit the stones as debris rained, and I felt him readying to winnow Then it stopped. Screaming rose up from the valley below. But silence reigned in the palace. Amongst us. Nesta vomited again, and Mor let her sag to the floor this time. "What in hell--" Helion began. But Rhys hauled his body off mine, his tan face draining of color. His lips going bloodless as he stared southward. Far, far southward. I felt his magic spear from him, a shooting star across the land. And when he looked back at us, his eyes went right to me. It was the fear in them--the sorrow and fear--that made my mouth go wholly dry. That made my blood run cold. Rhys swallowed. Once. Twice. Then he declared hoarsely, "The King of Hybern just used the Cauldron to attack the wall." Murmuring--some gasps. Rhys swallowed a third time, and the ground slid out from under me as he clarified, "The wall is gone. Shattered. Across Prythian, and on the continent." He said again, as if convincing himself, "We were too late--too slow. Hybern just destroyed the wall." <|title|>Chapter 49 <|startofchapter|>Nesta's connection to the Cauldron, Rhys mused as we gathered around the dining table in the town house, had allowed her to sense that the King of Hybern was rallying its power. The same way I was able to wield the connection to the High Lords to track their traces of power, and to find the Book and Cauldron, Nesta's own power--own immortality--was so closely bound to the Cauldron that its dreadful presence, when awoken, brushed through her, too. That was why he hunted her. Not just for the power she'd taken ... but for the fact that Nesta was a warning bell. We'd all departed the Dawn Court within minutes, Thesan promising large shipments of faebane antidote to every High Lord and army within two days, and that his Peregryns would begin readying themselves under his captain's command--to join the Illyrians in the skies. Kallias and Helion swore their own terrestrial armies would march as soon as possible. Only Tamlin, whose southern border covered the entire wall, was unaccounted for--his armies in shambles. Helion just said to Tamlin before the latter left, "Get your people out. Bring whatever host you can muster." Whatever remained after me. Tarquin echoed the sentiment, along with his promise to offer safe harbor for the Spring Court. Tamlin didn't reply to either of them. Didn't confirm that he would be bringing forces before he winnowed--without a glance at me. A small relief, since I hadn't decided whether to demand his sworn help or spit on him. Good-byes were brief. Viviane had embraced Mor tightly-- then me, to my surprise. Kallias only clasped Rhys's hand, a taut, tentative gesture, and vanished with his mate. Then Helion, with a wink at all of us. Tarquin was the last to go, Varian and Cresseida flanking him. His armada, they'd decided, would be left to guard his own cities while the bulk of his soldiers would march on land. Tarquin's crushing blue eyes flared as his power rallied to winnow them. But Varian said--to me, to Rhys--'Tell her thank you." He put a hand on his chest, the fine gold-and- silver thread of his teal jacket glinting in the morning sun. "Tell her ..." The Prince of Adriata shook his head. "I'll tell her myself the next time I see her." It seemed like more of a promise--that Varian would see Amren again, war or no. Then they were gone. No word arrived from Beron before we uttered our farewells and gratitude to Thesan. Not a whisper that Beron might have changed his mind. Or that Eris might have persuaded him. But that was not my concern. Or Nesta's. If the wall had come down ... Too late. We'd been too late. All of that research ... I should have insisted that if Amren deemed Nesta nearly ready, then we should have gone directly to the wall. Seen what she could do, spell from the Book or no. Perhaps it was my fault, for wanting to shelter her, build her strength, for letting her remain withdrawn. But if I had pushed and pushed ... Even now, seated around the town house dining table in Velaris, I hadn't decided whether the potential of breaking my sister permanently was worth the cost of saving lives. I didn't know how Rhys and the others had made such decisions--for years. Especially during Amarantha's reign. "We should have evacuated months ago," Nesta said, her plate of roast chicken and vegetables untouched. It was the first words any of us had spoken in minutes while we'd all picked at our food. Elain had been told--by Amren. She now sat at the table, more straight-backed and clear-eyed than I'd seen her. Had she beheld this, in whatever wanderings that new, inner sight granted her? Had the Cauldron whispered of it while we'd been away? I hadn't the heart to ask her. Rhys was saying to Nesta, "We can go to your estate tonight--evacuate your household and bring them back here." "They will not come." "Then they will likely die." Nesta straightened her fork and knife beside her plate. "Can't you spirit them away somewhere south--far from here?" "That many people? Not without first finding a safe place, which would take time we don't have." Rhys considered. "If we get a ship, they can sail--" "They will demand their families and friends come." A beat of silence. Not an option. Then Elain said quietly, "We could move them to Graysen's estate." We all faced her at the evenness of her voice. She swallowed, her slender throat so pale, and explained, "His father has high walls--made of thick stone. With space for plenty of people and supplies." All of us made a point not to look at that ring she still wore. Elain went on, "His father has been planning for something like this for ... a long time. They have defenses, stores ..." A shallow breath. "And a grove of ash trees, with a cache of weapons made from them." A snarl from Cassian. Despite their power, their might ... However those trees had been created, something in the ash wood cut right through Fae defenses. I'd seen it firsthand-- killed one of Tamlin's sentinels with an arrow through the throat. "If the faeries who attack possess magic," Cassian said, and Elain recoiled at the harsh tone, "then thick stone won't do much." "There are escape tunnels," Elain whispered. "Perhaps it is better than nothing." A glance between the Illyrians. "We can set up a guard--" Cassian began. "No," Elain interrupted, her voice louder than I'd heard in months. "They ... Graysen and his father ..." Cassian's jaw tightened. "Then we cloak--" "They have hounds. Bred and trained to hunt you. Detect you. A stiff silence as my friends contemplated how, exactly, those hounds had been trained. "You can't mean to leave their castle undefended," Cassian tried a shade more gently. "Even with the ash, it won't be enough. We'd need to set wards at the very minimum." Elain considered. "I can speak to him." "No," I said--at the same moment Nesta did. But Elain cut us off. "If--if you and ... they"--a glance at Rhys, my friends--"come with me, your Fae scents might distract the dogs." "You're Fae, too," Nesta reminded her. "Glamour me," Elain said--to Rhys. "Make me look human. Just long enough to convince him to open his gates to those seeking sanctuary. Perhaps even let you set those wards around the estate." And with our scents to confuse the hounds ... "This could end very badly, Elain." She brushed her thumb over the iron-and-diamond engagement ring. "It's already ended badly. Now it's just a matter of deciding how we meet the consequences." "Wisely said," Mor offered, smiling softly at Elain. She looked to Cassian. "You need to move the Illyrian legions today." Cassian nodded, but said to Rhys, "With the wall down, we need you to make a few things clear to the Illyrians. I need you at the camp with me--to give one of your pretty speeches before we go." Rhys's mouth twitched toward a smile. "We can all go-- then head to the human lands." He surveyed us, the town house. "We have an hour to prepare. Meet back here--then we leave." Mor and Azriel instantly winnowed out, Cassian striding for Rhys to ask him about the Court of Nightmares soldiers and their preparation. Nesta and I aimed for Elain, both of us speaking at once. "Are you sure?" I demanded at the same time Nesta said, "I can go--let me talk to him." Elain only rose to her feet. "He doesn't know you," she said to me. Then she faced Nesta with a frank, bemused look. "And he hates you." Some rotten part of me wondered if their broken engagement was for the best, then. Or if Elain had somehow suggested this visit, right after Lucien had left Prythian, for some chance to ... I didn't let myself finish the thought. I said, watching the space where my friends had vanished from the town house, "I need you to understand, Elain, that if this goes badly ... if he tries to harm you, or any of us ..." "I know. You will defend your own." "I will defend you." The vacancy fogged over her eyes. But Elain lifted her chin. "No matter what, don't kill him. Please." "We'll try--" "Swear it." I'd never heard that tone from her. Ever. "I can't make that promise." I wouldn't back down, not on this. "But I will do everything in my power to avoid it." Elain seemed to realize it, too. She peered down at herself, at the simple blue gown she wore. "I need to dress." "I'll help you," Nesta offered. But Elain shook her head. "Nuala and Cerridwen will help me. Then she was gone--shoulders a little squarer. Nesta's throat bobbed. I murmured, "It wasn't your fault-- that the wall came down before we could stop it." Steel-filled eyes cut to me. "If I had stayed to practice--" "Then you just would have been here while you waited for us to return from the meeting." Nesta smoothed a hand down her dark dress. "What do I do now?" A purpose, I realized. Assigning her the task of finding a way to repair the holes in the wall ... it had given my sister what perhaps our human lives had never granted her: a bearing. "You come with us--to Graysen's estate, and then travel with the army. If you're connected with the Cauldron, then we'll need you close. Need you to tell us if it's being wielded again." Not quite a mission, but Nesta nodded all the same. Right as Cassian clapped Rhys on the shoulder and prowled toward us. He paused a foot away, and frowned. "Dresses aren't good for flying, ladies." Nesta didn't reply. He lifted a brow. "No barking and biting today?" But Nesta didn't rise to meet him, her face still drained and sallow. "I've never worn pants," was all she said. I could have sworn concern flashed across Cassian's features. But he brushed it aside and drawled, "I have no doubt you'd start a riot if you did." No reaction. Had the Cauldron-- Cassian stepped in Nesta's path when she tried to walk past him. Put a tan, callused hand on her forehead. She shook off the touch, but he gripped her wrist, forcing her to meet his stare. "Any one of those human pricks makes a move to hurt you," he breathed, "and you kill them." He wouldn't be coming--no, he'd be mustering the full might of the Illyrian legions. Azriel would be joining us, though. Cassian pressed one of his knives into Nesta's hand. "Ash can kill you now," he said with lethal quiet as she stared down at the blade. "A scratch can make you queasy enough to be vulnerable. Remember where the exits are in every room, every fence and courtyard--mark them when you go in, and mark how many men are around you. Mark where Rhys and the others are. Don't forget that you're stronger and faster. Aim for the soft parts," he added, folding her fingers around the hilt. "And if someone gets you into a hold ..." My sister said nothing as Cassian showed her the sensitive areas on a man. Not just the groin, but the inside of the foot, pinching the thigh, using her elbow like a weapon. When he finished, he stepped back, his hazel eyes churning with some emotion I couldn't place. Nesta surveyed the fine dagger in her hand. Then lifted her head to look at him. "I told you to come to training," Cassian said with a cocky grin, and strode off. I studied Nesta, the dagger, her quiet, still face. "Don't even start," she warned me, and headed for the stairs. I found Amren in her apartment, cursing at the Book. "We're leaving within the hour," I said. "Do you have everything you need here?" "Yes." Amren lifted her head, those uptilted silver eyes swirling with ire. Not at me, I realized with no small relief. At the fact that Hybern had beaten us to the wall. Beaten her. That wasn't my problem. Not as the words of that meeting with the High Lords eddied. Not as I again saw Beron walk out, no soldiers or help promised. Not as I heard Rhys and Cassian discussing how few soldiers the others possessed compared to Hybern's forces. The king's taunt to Rhys had been roiling through my mind for days now. Hybern expected him to give everything--everything--to stop them. Had claimed only that would give us a fighting shot. And I knew my mate. Perhaps better than I knew myself. I knew Rhys would spend all of himself, destroy himself, if it meant a chance at winning. At survival. The other High Lords ... I couldn't afford to risk counting on them. Helion, strong as he was, wouldn't even step in to save his own lover. Tarquin, perhaps. But the others ... I didn't know them. Didn't have time to. And I would not gamble their tentative allegiance. I would not gamble Rhys. "What do you want?" Amren snapped when I remained staring at her. "There is a creature beneath the library. Do you know it?" Amren shut the Book. "Its name is Bryaxis." "What is it." "You do not want to know, girl." I shoved back the arm of my ebony dress, the finery so at odds with the loft, its messiness. "I made a bargain with it." I showed her the band of tattoo around my forearm. "So I suppose I do." Amren stood, brushing dust off her gray pants. "I heard about that. Foolish girl." "I had no choice. And now we are bound to each other." "And what of it?" "I want to ask it for another bargain. I need you to examine the wards holding it down there--and to explain things." I didn't bother to look pleasant. Or desperate. Or grateful. I didn't bother to wipe the cold, hard mask from my face as I added, "You're coming with me. Right now." <|title|>Chapter 50 <|startofchapter|>There was no priestess waiting to lead us into the black pit at the heart of the library. And Amren, for once, kept quiet. We reached that bottom level, that impenetrable dark, our steps the only sound. "I want to talk to you," I said into the blackness beckoning beyond the end of the light leaking down from high above. One does not summon me. "I summon you. I'm here to offer you company. As part of our bargain." Silence. Then I felt it, snaking and curling around us, gobbling up the light. Amren swore softly. You brought--what is it you brought? "Someone like you. Or you could be like them." You speak in riddles. A cool, insubstantial hand brushed against my nape and I tried not to inch back toward the light. "Bryaxis. Your name is Bryaxis. And someone locked you down here a long time ago. The darkness paused. "I'm here to offer you another bargain." Amren remained still and silent, as I'd told her to, offering me a single nod of confirmation. She could indeed sever the wards holding Bryaxis down here--when the time was right. "There is a war," I said, fighting to keep my voice steady. "A terrible war about to break across the land. If I can free you, will you fight for me? For me and my High Lord?" The thing--Bryaxis--did not reply. I nudged Amren with my elbow. She said, her voice as young and old as the creature's, "We will offer you freedom from this place in exchange for it." A bargain. A simple, powerful magic. As great as any the Book could muster. This is my home. I considered. "Then what is it you want in exchange?" Silence. Sunlight. And moonlight. The stars. I opened my mouth to say I wasn't entirely sure that even as High Lady of the Night Court I could promise such things, but Amren stepped on my foot and murmured, "A window. High above." Not a mirror, as the Carver wanted. But a window in the mountain. We'd have to carve far, far up, but-- "That's it?" Amren stomped on my foot this time. Bryaxis whispered in my ear, Will I be able to hunt without restraint on the battlefields? Drink in their fear and dread until I am sated? I felt slightly bad for Hybern as I said, "Yes--only Hybern. And only until the war is over." One way or another. A beat of silence. What would you have me do, then? I gestured to Amren. "She will explain. She will disable the wards--when we need you." Then I will wait. "Then it's a bargain. You will obey our orders in this war, fight for us until we no longer need you, and in exchange ... we shall bring the sun and moon and stars to you. In your home." Another prisoner who had come to love its cell. Perhaps Bryaxis and the Carver should meet. An ancient death-god and the face of nightmares. The painting, dreadful yet alluring, began to creep roots deep within my mind. I kept my shoulders loose, posture as casual as I could summon while the darkness slid around me, winding between me and Amren, and whispered into my ear, It is a bargain. I made the hour count. When we all gathered in the town house foyer once more to winnow to the Illyrian camp, I'd changed into my fighting leathers, my new tattoo concealed beneath. No one asked where I'd gone. Though Mor looked me over and said, "Where's Amren?" "Still poring over the Book," I answered just as Rhys winnowed into the town house. Not a lie. Amren would stay here--until we needed her at the battlefields. Rhys angled his head. "Looking for what? The wall is gone." "For anything," I said. "For another way to nullify the Cauldron that doesn't involve the insides of my head leaking out through my nose." Rhys cringed and opened his mouth to object, but I cut him off. "There must be another way--Amren thinks there must be another way. It doesn't hurt to look. And have her hunt for any other spell that might stop the king." And when Amren was not doing that ... she'd bring down those complex wards containing Bryaxis beneath the library-- to be severed only when I called for Bryaxis. Only when the might of Hybern's army was fully upon us. If I could not get the Ouroboros for the Carver ... then Bryaxis was better than nothing. I wasn't entirely certain why I didn't mention it to the others. Rhys's eyes flickered, no doubt warring with the idea of what role any other route would require of me in regard to the Cauldron, but he nodded. I interlaced my fingers with his, and he squeezed once. Behind me, Mor took Nesta and Cassian by the hand, readying to winnow them to the camp, while shadows gathered around Azriel, Elain at his side, wide-eyed at the spymaster's display. But we hesitated--all of us. And I allowed myself one last time to drink it in, the furniture and the wood and the sunlight. To listen to the sounds of Velaris, the laughing of children in the streets, the song of the gulls. In the silence, I knew my friends were, too. Rhys cleared his throat, and nodded to Mor. Then she was gone, Cassian and Nesta with her. Then Azriel, gently taking Elain's hand in his own, as if afraid his scars would hurt her. Alone with Rhys, I savored the buttery sunshine leaking in from the windows of the front door. Breathed in the smell of the bread Nuala and Cerridwen had baked that morning with Elain. "The creature in the library," I murmured. "Its name is Bryaxis." Rhys lifted a brow. "Oh?" "I offered it a bargain. To fight for us." Stars danced in those violet eyes. "And what did Bryaxis say?" "Only that it wants a window--to see the stars and moon and sun." "You did explain that we need it to slaughter our enemies, didn't you?" I nudged him with a hip. "The library is its home. It only wanted some adjustments made to it." A crooked smile tugged on Rhys's mouth. "Well, I suppose if I now have to redecorate my own lodgings to match Thesan's splendor, I might as well add a window for the poor thing." I elbowed him in the ribs that time. He still wore his finery from the meeting. Rhys chuckled. "So our army grows by one. Poor Cassian will never recover when he sees his newest recruit." "With any luck, Hybern won't, either." "And the Carver?" "He can rot down there. I don't have time for his games. Bryaxis will have to be enough." Rhys glanced at my arm, as if he could see the new, second band beside the first one. He lifted our joined hands and pressed a kiss to the back of my palm. Again, we silently looked around the town house, taking in every last detail, the quiet that now lay like a layer of dust upon it. Rhys said softly, "I wonder if we'll see it again." I knew he wasn't just talking about the house. But I rose up on my toes and kissed his cheek. "We will," I promised as a dark wind gathered to sweep us to the Illyrian war-camp. I held tightly to him as I added, "We'll see it all again." And when that night-kissed wind winnowed us away, away into war, away into untold danger ... I prayed that my promise held true. <|title|>Chapter 51 <|startofchapter|>Even at the height of summer, the Illyrian mountain-camp was damp. Brisk. There were some truly lovely days, Rhys assured me when I scowled as we winnowed in, but cooler weather was better anyway, when an army was involved. Heat made tempers rise. Especially when it was too hot to sleep comfortably. And considering the Illyrians were a testy lot to begin with ... It was a blessing that the sky was cloudy and the wind mist-kissed. But even the weather wasn't enough to make the greeting party look pleasant. I only recognized one of the muscle-bound Illyrians in full armor waiting for us. Lord Devlon. The sneer was still on his face--though milder compared to the outright contempt contorting the features of a few. Like Azriel and Cassian, they possessed dark hair and eyes of assorted hazel and brown. And like my friends, their skin was rich shades of golden brown, some flecked with bone-white scars of varying severity. But unlike my friends, one or two Siphons adorned their hands. The seven Azriel and Cassian wore seemed almost vulgar by comparison. But the gathered males only looked at Rhys, as if the two Illyrians flanking him were little more than trees. Mor and I remained on either side of Nesta, who had changed into a dark blue, practical dress and now surveyed the camp, the winged warriors, the sheer size of the host assembled in the camp around us ... We kept Elain half-hidden behind the wall of our bodies. Considering the backward view of the Illyrians toward females, I'd suggested we remain a step away on this meeting --literally. There were only a few female fighters in the legion ... Now was not the time to test the tolerance of the Illyrians. Later--later, if we won this war. If we survived. Devlon was speaking, "It's true, then. The wall came down." "A temporary failure," Rhys crooned. He was still wearing his fine jacket and pants from the meeting with the High Lords. For whatever reason, he hadn't chosen to wear the Illyrian leathers. Or the wings. It's because they already know I trained with them, am one of them. They need to remember that I'm also their High Lord. And I have no intention of loosening the leash. The words were a silk-covered scrape of nails down my mind. Rhys began giving unwavering, cold instructions about the impending push southward. The voice of the High Lord--the voice of a warrior who had fought in the War and had no intention of losing this one. Cassian frequently added his own orders and clarifications. Azriel--Azriel just stared them all down. He had not wanted to come to the camp months ago. Disliked being back here. Hated these people, his heritage. The other lords kept glancing to the shadowsinger in dread and rage and disgust. He only leveled that lethal gaze back at them. On and on they went, until Devlon looked over Rhys's shoulder--to where we stood. A scowl at Mor. A frown at me--wisely subdued. Then he noticed Nesta. "What is that," Devlon asked. Nesta merely stared at him, one hand clamping the edges of her gray cloak together at her chest. One of the other camp- lords made some sign against evil. "That," Cassian said too quietly, "is none of your concern." "Ts she a witch." I opened my mouth, but Nesta said flatly, "Yes." And I watched as nine full-grown, weathered Illyrian warlords flinched. "She may act like one sometimes," Cassian clarified, "but no--she is High Fae." "She is no more High Fae than we are," Devlon countered. A pause that went on for too long. Even Rhys seemed at a loss for words. Devlon had complained when we'd first met that Amren and I were Other. As if he possessed some sense for such things. Devlon muttered, "Keep her away from the females and children." I clutched Nesta's free hand in silent warning to remain quiet. Mor let out a snort that made the Illyrians stiffen. But she shifted, revealing Elain behind her. Elain was just blinking, wide-eyed, at the camp. The army. Devlon let out a grunt at the sight of her. But Elain wrapped her own blue cloak around herself, averting her eyes from all of those towering, muscled warriors, the army camp bustling toward the horizon ... She was a rose bloom in a mud field. Filled with galloping horses. "Don't be afraid of them," Nesta said beneath lowered brows. If Elain was a blooming flower in this army camp, then Nesta ... she was a freshly forged sword, waiting to draw blood. Take them into our war tent, Rhys said silently to me. Devlon honestly might throw a hissy fit if he has to face Nesta for another minute. I'd pay good money to see that. So would I. I hid my smile. "Let's find something warm to drink," I said to my sisters, beckoning Mor to join. We aimed for the largest of the tents in the camp, a black banner sewn with a mountain and three silver stars flapping from its apex. Warriors and females laboring around the fires silently monitored us. Nesta stared them all down. Elain kept her focus on the dry, rocky ground. The tent's interior was simple yet luxurious: thick carpets covered the low wooden platform on which the tent had been erected to keep out the damp; braziers of faelights flickered throughout, chairs and a few chaise longues were scattered around, covered in thick furs. A massive desk with several chairs occupied one half of the main space. And behind a curtain in the back ... I assumed our bed waited. Mor flung herself onto the nearest chaise. "Welcome to an Illyrian war-camp, ladies. Try to keep your awe contained." Nesta drifted toward the desk, the maps atop it. "What is the difference," she asked none of us in particular, "between a faerie and a witch?" "Witches amass power beyond their natural reserve," Mor answered with sudden seriousness. "They use spells and archaic tools to harness more power to them than the Cauldron allotted--and use it for whatever they desire, good or ill." Elain silently surveyed the tent, head tipping back. Her mass of heavy brown-gold hair shifted with the movement, the faelight dancing among the silken strands. She'd left it half-up, the style arranged to hide her ears should the glamours fail at Graysen's estate. Tamlin's hadn't worked on Nesta--perhaps Graysen and his father would have a similar immunity to such things. Elain at last slid into the chair near Mor's, her dawn-pink dress--finer than the ones she usually wore--crinkling beneath her. "Will--will many of these soldiers die?" I cringed, but Nesta said, "Yes." I could almost see the unspoken words Nesta reined in. Your mate might die sooner than them, though. Mor said, "Whenever you're ready, Elain, I'll glamour you. "Will it hurt?" Elain asked. "It didn't when Tamlin glamoured your memories," Nesta said, leaning against the desk. Mor still said, "No. It might ... tingle. Just act as you would as a human." "It's the same as how I act now." Elain began wringing her slender fingers. "Yes," I said, "but ... try to keep the vision-talk ... to yourself. While we're there." I added quickly, "Unless it's something that you can't--" "I can," Elain said, squaring her slim shoulders. "I will." Mor smiled tightly. "Deep breath." Elain obeyed. I blinked, and it was done. Gone was the faint glow of immortal health; the face that had become a bit sharper. Gone were the pointed ears, the grace. Muted. Drab--or in the way that someone as beautiful as Elain could be drab. Even her hair seemed to have lost its luster, the gold now brassy, the brown mousy. Elain studied her hands, turning them over. "I hadn't realized ... how ordinary it looked." "Youre still lovely," Mor said a bit gently. Elain offered a half smile. "I suppose that war makes wanting things like that unimportant." Mor was quiet for a heartbeat. "Perhaps. But you should not let war steal it from you regardless." Elain's palm was clammy in mine as Rhys winnowed us into the human lands, Mor taking Azriel and Nesta. And though her face was calm when we found ourselves blinking at the heat and sunshine of a full mortal summer, her grip on my hand was as strong as the iron ring around her finger. The heat lay heavy over the estate we now faced--the stone guardhouse the only opening I could see in either direction. The only opening in the towering stone wall rising up before us, solid as some mammoth beast, so high I had to crane my neck back to spy the spikes jutting from its top. The guards at the thick iron gates ... Rhys slid his hands into his pockets, a shield already around us. Mor and Azriel took up defensive positions at our sides. Twelve guards at this gate. All armed, faces hidden beneath thick helmets, despite the heat. Their bodies were equally covered in plated armor, right down to their boots. Any of us could end their lives without lifting a hand. And the wall they guarded, the gates they held ... I did not think they would last long, either. But ... if we could place wards here, perhaps set up a bastion of Fae warriors ... Through those open gates, I glimpsed sprawling lands--fields and pastures and groves and a lake ... And beyond it ... a solid, bulky fortress of dark brown stone. Nesta had been right. It was like a prison, this place. Its lord had prepared to weather the storm from inside, a king over these resources. But there was room. Plenty of room for people. And the would-be mistress of this prison ... Head high, Elain said to the guards, to the dozen arrows now pointed at her slender throat, "Tell Graysen that his betrothed has come for him. Tell him ... tell him that Elain Archeron begs for sanctuary." <|title|>Chapter 52 <|startofchapter|>We waited outside the gates while a guard mounted a horse and galloped down the long, dusty road to the fortress itself. A second curtain wall lay around the bulky building. With our Fae sight, we could see as those gates opened, then another pair. "How did you even meet him," I murmured to Elain as we lingered beneath the shade of the looming oaks outside the gate, "if he's locked up in here?" Elain stared and stared at the distant fortress. "At a ball-- his father's ball." "I've been to funerals that were merrier," Nesta muttered. Elain cut her a look. "This house has needed a woman's touch for years." Neither of us said that it didn't seem likely she would be the one. Azriel kept a few steps away, little more than the shade of one of the oaks behind us. But Mor and Rhys ... they monitored everything. The guards whose fear ... the salty, sweaty tang of it grated on every nerve. But they held firm. Held those ash-tipped arrows at us. Long minutes passed. Then finally a yellow flag was raised at the distant fortress gates. We braced ourselves. But one of the guards before us grunted, "He'll come out to see you." a ts We were not to be allowed within the keep. To see their defenses, their resources. The guardhouse was as far as they'd allow us. They led us inside, and though we tried to keep our otherness to a minimum ... The hounds leashed to the walls within snarled. Viciously enough that the guards led them out. The main room of the guardhouse was stuffy and cramped, more so with all of us in there, and though I offered Elain a seat by the sealed window, she remained standing--at the front of our company. Staring at the shut iron door. I knew Rhys was listening to every word the guards uttered outside, his tendrils of power waiting to sense any turn in their intentions. I doubted the stone and iron of the building could hold any of us, certainly not together, but ... Letting them shut us in here to wait ... It rubbed against some nerve. Made my body restless, a cold sweat breaking out. Too small, not enough air-- Its all right, Rhys soothed. This place cannot hold you. I nodded, though he hadn't spoken, trying to swallow the feeling of the walls and ceiling pushing on me. Nesta was watching me carefully. I admitted to her, "Sometimes ... I have problems with small spaces." Nesta studied me for a long moment. And then she said with equal quiet, though we could all hear, "I can't get into a bathtub anymore. I have to use buckets." I hadn't known--hadn't even thought that bathing, submerging in water ... I knew better than to touch her hand. But I said, "When we get home, we'll install something else for you." I could have sworn there was gratitude in her eyes--that she might have said something else when horses approached. "Two dozen guards," Azriel murmured to Rhys. A glance at Elain. "And Lord Graysen and his father, Lord Nolan." Elain went still as a doe as footsteps crunched outside. I caught Nesta's eye, read the understanding there, and nodded. Any attempt to hurt Elain ... I did not care what I had promised my sister. I'd leave Nesta to shred him. Indeed, my eldest sister's fingers had curled--as if invisible talons crowned them. But the door banged open, and-- The panting young man was so ... human-looking. Handsome, brown-haired, blue-eyed, but ... human. Solidly built beneath his light armor, tall--perhaps a mortal ideal of a knight who would swoop a beautiful maiden onto his horse and ride off into the sunset. So at odds from the savage strength of the Illyrians, the cultivated lethalness of Mor and Amren. From my own clawing and shredding--and Nesta's. But a small sound came out of Elain as she beheld Graysen. As he gasped for breath, scanning her from head to toe. He staggered toward her a step-- A broad, scar-flecked hand gripped the back of Graysen's armor, hauling him to a stop. The man who held the young lord fully entered the cramped room. Tall and thin, hawk-nosed and gray-eyed ... "What is the meaning of this." We all stared at him beneath lowered brows. Elain was shaking. "Sir--Lord Nolan ..." Words failed her as she again looked at her betrothed, who had not taken his earnest blue eyes from her, not for a heartbeat. "The wall has come down," Nesta said, stepping to Elain's side. Graysen looked to Nesta at that. Shock flared at what he beheld: the ears, the beauty, the ... otherworldly power that thrummed around her. "How," he said, his voice low and raspy. "I was kidnapped," Nesta answered coolly, not one flicker of fear in her eyes. "I was taken by the army invading these lands and turned against my will." "How," Nolan echoed. "There is a Cauldron--a weapon. It grants its owner power to ... do such things. I was a test." Nesta then launched into a sharp, short explanation of the queens, of Hybern, of why the wall had fallen. When she finished Lord Nolan only demanded, "And who are your companions?" It was a gamble--we knew it was. To say who we were, when we knew full well the terror of any Fae, let alone High Lords ... But I stepped forward. "My name is Feyre Archeron. I am High Lady of the Night Court. This is Rhysand, my-- husband." I doubted mate would go over well as a term. Rhys came to my side. Some of the guards shifted and murmured with terror. Some flinched at the hand Rhys lifted-- to gesture behind him. "Our third in command, Morrigan. And our spymaster, Azriel." Lord Nolan, to his credit, did not blanch. Graysen did, but remained steady. "Elain," Graysen breathed. "Elain--why are you with them?" "Because she is our sister," Nesta answered, her fingers still curled with those invisible talons. "And there is no safer place for her during this war than with us." Elain whispered, "Graysen--we've come to beg you ..." A pleading glance at his father. "Both of you ... Open your gates to any humans who can get here. To families. With the wall down ... We--they believe ... There is not enough time for an evacuation. The queens will not send aid from the continent. But here--they might stand a chance." Neither man responded, though Graysen now looked at Elain's engagement ring. His blue eyes rippled with pain. "I would be inclined to believe you," he said quietly, "if you were not lying to me with your every breath." Elain blinked. "I--I am not, I--" "Did you think," Lord Nolan said, and Nesta and I closed ranks around Elain as he took a step toward us, "that you could come to my house and deceive me with your faerie magic?" Rhys said, "We don't care what you believe. We only come to ask you to help those who cannot defend themselves." "At what gain? What risk of your own?" "You have an arsenal of ash weapons," I said. "I'd think the risk to us is apparent." "And to your sister as well," Nolan spat toward Elain. "Don't forget to include her." "Any weapon can hurt a mortal," Mor said blandly. "But she isn't a mortal, is she?" Nolan sneered. "No, I have it on good authority that it was Elain Archeron who was turned Fae first. And who now has a High Lord's son as a mate." "And who, exactly, told you this?" Rhys said with a lift of the brow, not showing one ounce of ire, of surprise. Steps sounded. But we all went for our weapons as Jurian strolled into the guardhouse and said, "I did." <|title|>Chapter 53 <|startofchapter|>Jurian held up his tanned hands, new calluses dotting his palms and fingers. New--for the remade body he'd had to train to handle weapons these months. "I came alone," Jurian said. "You can stop snarling." Elain began shaking--either at the truth revealed, or the memories that pelted her, pelted Nesta, at the sight of him. Jurian inclined his head to my sisters. "Ladies." "They are no ladies," Lord Nolan sneered. "Father," Graysen warned. Nolan ignored him. "Upon his arrival, Jurian explained what had been done to you--both of you. What the queens on the continent desire." "And what is that?" Rhys asked, his voice a deceptive croon. "Power. Youth," Jurian said with a shrug. "The usual things." "Why are you here," I demanded. Kill him--we should kill him now before he could hurt us any further, kill him for that bolt he'd put through Azriel's chest and the threat he'd made to Miryam and Drakon, perhaps causing them to vanish and leave us to fight this war on our own-- "The queens are snakes," Jurian said, leaning against the edge of a table shoved by the wall. "They deserve to be butchered for their treachery. It took no effort on my part when Hybern sent me to woo them to our cause. Only one of them was noble enough to play the game--to know we'd been dealt a shitty hand and to play it the best she could. But when she helped you, the others found out. And they gave her to the Attor." Jurian's eyes gleamed bright--not with madness, I realized. But clarity. And I had the sense of the world sliding out from beneath my feet as Jurian said, "He resurrected me to turn them to his cause, believing I had gone mad during the five hundred years Amarantha trapped me. So I was reborn, and found myself surrounded by my old enemies--faces I had once marked to kill. I found myself on the wrong side of a wall, with the human realm poised to shatter beneath it." Jurian looked right to Mor, whose mouth was a tight line. "You were my friend," he said, voice straining. "We fought back-to-back during some battles. And yet you believed me at first sight--believed that I'd ever let them turn me." "You went mad with--with Clythia. It was madness. It destroyed you." "And I was glad to do it," Jurian snarled. "I was glad to do it, if it bought us an edge in that war. I didn't care what it did to me, what it broke in me. If it meant we could be free. And I have had five hundred years to think about it. While being held prisoner by my enemy. Five hundred years, Mor." The way he said her name, so familiar and knowing-- "You played the villain convincingly enough, Jurian," Rhys purred. Jurian snapped his face toward Rhys. "You should have looked. I expected you to look into my mind, to see the truth. Why didn't you?" Rhys was quiet for a long moment. Then he said softly, "Because I didn't want to see her." See any trace of Amarantha. "You mean to imply," Mor pushed, "that you've been working to help us during this?" "Where better to plot your enemy's demise, to learn their weaknesses, than at their side?" We were silent, Lord Graysen and his father watching--or the latter did. Graysen and Elain were just staring at each other. "Why this obsession to find Miryam and Drakon?" Mor asked. "It's what the world expects of me. What Hybern expects. And if he grants my asking price to find them ... Drakon has a legion capable of turning the tide in battle. It was why I allied with him during the War. I don't doubt Drakon still has it trained and ready. Word will have reached him by now. Especially that I am looking for them." A warning. The only way Jurian could send one--by making himself the hunter. I said to Jurian, "You don't want to kill Miryam and Drakon." There was stark honesty in Jurian's eyes as he shook his head once. "No," he said roughly. "I want to beg their forgiveness." I looked to Mor. But tears lined her eyes, and she blinked them furiously away. "Miryam and Drakon have vanished," Rhys said. "Their people with them." "Then find them," Jurian said. He jerked his chin to Azriel. "Send the shadowsinger, send whomever you trust, but find them." Silence. "Look into my head," Jurian said to Rhys. "Look, and see for yourself." "Why now," Rhys said. "Why here." Jurian held his stare. "Because the wall came down, and now I can move freely--to warn the humans here. Because ..." He loosed a long breath. "Because Tamlin ran right back to Hybern after your meeting ended this morning. Right to their camp in the Spring Court, where Hybern now plans to launch a land assault on Summer tomorrow." <|title|>Chapter 54 <|startofchapter|>Jurian was not my enemy. I couldn't wrap my mind around it. Even as Rhys and I both looked. I didn't linger for long. The pain and guilt and rage, what he had seen and endured But Jurian spoke true. Laid himself bare to us. He knew the spot they planned to attack. Where and when and how many. Azriel vanished without a glance at any of us--to warn Cassian and move the legion. Jurian was saying to Mor, "They didn't kill the sixth queen. Vassa. She saw through me--or thought she did--from the start. Warned them against this. Told them that if I was reborn, it was a bad sign, and to rally their armies to face the threat before it grew too large. But Vassa is too brash, too young. She didn't play the game the way the golden one, Demetra, did. Didn't see the lust in their eyes when I told them of the Cauldron's powers. Didn't know that from the moment I began to spin Hybern's lies ... they became her enemies. They couldn't kill Vassa--the next in line to her throne is far more willful. So they found an old death-lord above the wall, with a penchant for enslaving young women. He cursed her, and stole her away ... The entire world believes she's been sick these past months." "We know," Mor said, and none of us dared glance at Elain. "We learned about it." And even with the truth laid bare ... none of us told him that Lucien had gone after her. Elain seemed to remember, though. Who was hunting for that missing queen. And she said to Graysen, stone-faced and sorrowful through all of this, "I did not mean to deceive you." His father answered, "I find I have trouble believing that." Graysen swallowed. "Did you think you could come back here--live with me as this ... lie?" "No. Yes. ILI don't know what I wanted--" "And you are bound to some ... Fae male. A High Lord's son. A different High Lord s heir, likely, I wanted to say. "His name is Lucien." I wasn't certain if I'd ever heard his name from her lips. "I don't care what his name is." The first sharp words from Graysen. "You are his mate. Do you even know what that means?" "It means nothing," Elain said, her voice breaking. "It means nothing. I don't care who decided it or why they did--" "You belong to him." "I belong to no one. But my heart belongs to you." Graysen's face hardened. "I don't want it." He would have been better off hitting her, that's how deep the hurt in her eyes went. And seeing her face crumple ... I stepped close, pushing her behind me. "Here is what is going to happen. You are going to take in any people who can make it here. We will supply these walls with wards." "We don't need them," sneered Nolan. "Shall I demonstrate for you," I said, "how wrong you are? Or shall you take my word for it that I could reduce this wall to rubble with half a thought? And that is to say nothing of my friends. You will find, Lord Nolan, that you want our wards, and our help. All in exchange for taking in whatever humans need the safety." "I don't want riffraff wandering through here." "So only the rich and chosen will walk through the gates?" Rhys asked, arching a brow. "I can't imagine the aristocracy being content to work your land and fish in your lake or butcher your meat." "We have plenty of workers here to do that." It was happening again. Another fight with narrow-minded, hateful people ... But Jurian said to the lords, "I fought beside your ancestor. And he would be ashamed if you locked out those who needed it. You would spit on his grave to do so. I hold a position of trust with Hybern. One word from me, and I will make sure his legion takes a visit here. To you." "You'll threaten to bring the very enemy you seek to protect us from?" Jurian shrugged. "I can also convince Hybern to steer clear. He trusts me that much. You let in those people ... I will do my best to keep his armies far away." He gave Rhys a look, daring him to doubt it. We were still too stunned to even try to look neutral. But then Nolan said, "I do not pretend to have a large army. Only a considerable unit of soldiers. If what you say is true ..." A glance at Graysen. "We will take them. Whoever can make it." I wondered if the elder lord might be the one who could actually be reasoned with. Especially as Graysen said to Elain, "Take that ring off." Elain's fingers curved into a fist. "No." Ugly. This was about to get ugly in the worst way-- "Take. It. Off." It was Nolan's turn to murmur a warning to his son. Graysen ignored him. Elain did not move. "Take it off! " The roared words barked over the stones. "That's enough," Rhys said, his voice lethally calm. "The lady keeps the ring, if she wants it. Though none of us will be particularly sad to see it go. Females tend to prefer gold or silver to iron." Graysen leveled a seething look at Rhysand. "Is this the start of it? You Fae males will come to take our women? Are your own not fuckable enough?" "Watch your tongue, boy," his father said. Elain turned white at the coarse language. Graysen only said to her, "I am not marrying you. Our engagement is over. I will take whatever people occupy your lands. But not you. Never you." Tears began sliding down Elain's face, their scent filling the room with salt. Nesta stepped forward. Then another step. And another. Until she was in front of Graysen, faster than anyone could see. Until Nesta smacked him hard enough that his head snapped to the side. "You never deserved her," Nesta snarled into the stunned silence as Graysen cupped his face and swore, bending over. Nesta only looked back at me. Rage, unfiltered and burning, roiled in her eyes. But her voice was stone-cold as she said to me, "I assume we're done here." I gave her a wordless nod. And proud as any queen, Nesta took Elain's arm and led her from the guardhouse. Mor trailed behind, guarding their backs as they entered the veritable field of weapons and snarling hounds waiting outside. The two lords saw themselves out without so much as a good-bye. Alone, Jurian said, "Tell the shadowsinger I'm sorry about the arrow to the chest." Rhys shook his head. "What's the next move, then? I assume you're doing more than warning humans to flee or hide." Jurian pushed off the table. "The next move, Rhysand, is me going back to that Hybern war-camp and throwing a fit that my search for Miryam and Drakon's whereabouts wasn't fruitful. My step after that is to take another trip to the continent and sow the seeds of discord amongst the queens' courts. To let some vital things slip about their agenda. Who they really support. What they really want. It will keep them busy--too worried about their own internal conflict to consider sailing here. And once that's done ... who knows? Perhaps I'll join you on the battlefield." Rhys rubbed his brows with a thumb and forefinger, the locks of his hair sliding forward as he dipped his head. "I wouldn't believe a word, except I looked into that head of yours." Jurian tapped a hand on the door frame. "Tell Cassian to hammer the left flank hard tomorrow. Hybern is putting his untrained nobles there for some seasoning--they're spoiled and untested. Buckle the ranks there, and it'll spook the grunts. Hit them with everything you've got, and fast--don't give them time to rally or find their courage." Jurian gave me a grim smile. "I never congratulated you for slaughtering Dagdan and Brannagh. Good riddance." "I did it for those Children of the Blessed," I said. "Not for glory." "I know," Jurian said, flicking up his brows. "Why do you think I decided to trust you?" <|title|>Chapter 55 <|startofchapter|>"I'm too old for these sorts of surprises," Mor groused as the war-tent groaned in the howling mountain wind at the northern border of the Winter Court, the Illyrian army settling down for the night. To wait for the attack tomorrow. They'd flown all day, the location remote enough to keep even an army of our size hidden. Until tomorrow, at least. We'd warned Tarquin--and dispatched messages to Helion and Kallias to join if they could make it in time. But come the hour before dawn, the Illyrian legion would take to the skies and fly hard for that southern battlefield. They would land, hopefully, before it began. Right as Keir and his commanders winnowed in the Darkbringer legion from the Night Court. And then the slaughter would begin. On either side. If what Jurian claimed was true. Cassian had choked when we'd told him Jurian's battle advice. A milder reaction, Azriel said, than his initial response. I asked Mor from where I sat at the foot of the fur-covered chaise we currently shared, "You never suspected Jurian might be ... good?" She swigged from her wine and leaned back against the cushions piled before the rolled headrest. My sisters were in another tent, not quite as big but equally luxurious, their lodgings flanked by Cassian's and Azriel's tents, and Mor's before it. No one would get to them without my friends knowing. Even if Mor was currently here with me. "I don't know," she said, hauling a heavy wool throw blanket over her legs. "I was never as close to Jurian as I was to some of the others, but ... we did fight together. Saved each other. I just assumed Amarantha broke him." "Parts of him are broken," I said, shuddering to recall those memories I'd seen, the feelings. I pulled some of her blanket over my lap. "We're all broken," Mor said. "In our own ways--in places no one might see." I angled my head to inquire, but she asked, "Is Elain ... all right?" "No," was all I said. Elain was not all right. She had quietly cried while we winnowed here. And in the hours afterward, while the army arrived and the camp was rebuilt. She did not take off her ring. She only lay on the cot in her tent, nestled among the furs and blankets, and stared at nothing. Any bit of good, any advancement ... gone. I debated returning to smash every bone in Graysen's body, but resisted --if only because it would give Nesta license to unleash herself upon him. And death at Nesta's hands ... I wondered if they'd have to invent a new word for killing when she was done with Graysen. So Elain silently cried, the tears so unending that I wondered if it was some sign of her heart bleeding out. Some sliver of hope that had shattered today. That Graysen would still love her, still marry her--and that love would trump even a mating bond. A final tether had been snapped--to her life in the human lands. Only our father, wherever he was, remained as any sort of connection. Mor read whatever was on my face and set down the wine on the small wood table beside the chaise. "We should sleep. I don't even know why I'm drinking." "Today was ... unexpected." "It's so much harder," she said, groaning as she chucked the rest of the blanket into my lap and rose to her feet. "When enemies turn into friends. And the opposite, I suppose. What didn't I see? What did I overlook or dismiss? It always makes me reassess myself more than them." "Another joy of war?" She snorted, heading for the tent flaps. "No--of life." I barely slept that night. Rhys didn't come to the tent--not once. I slipped from our bed when the darkness was just starting to yield to gray, following the tug of the mating bond as I had done that day Under the Mountain. He stood atop a rocky outcropping crusted with patches of ice, watching the stars fade away one by one over the still- slumbering camp. I wordlessly slid my arm around his waist, and he shifted his wings to fold me into his side. "A lot of soldiers are going to die today," he said quietly. "I know." "It never gets easier," he whispered. The strong panes of his face were taut, and silver lined his eyes as he studied the stars. Only here, only now, would he show that grief--that worry and pain. Never before his armies; never before his enemies. He loosed a long breath. "Are you ready?" I would stay near the back of the lines with Mor to get a feel for battle. The flow and terror and structure. My sisters would remain here until it was safe to winnow them afterward. If things didn't go to hell first. "No," I admitted. "But I have no other choice than to be ready." Rhys kissed the top of my head, and we stared at the dying stars in silence. "I'm grateful," he said after a while, as the camp beneath us stirred in the building light. "To have you at my side. I don't know if I ever told you that--how grateful I am to have you stand with me." I blinked back the burning in my eyes and took his hand. I laid it over my heart, letting him feel its beating while I kissed him one final time, the last of the stars vanishing as the army below us awoke to do battle. <|title|>Chapter 56 <|startofchapter|>Jurian was right. We'd seen inside his head, yet we'd still doubted. Still wondered if we'd arrive to find Hybern had changed their position, or attacked elsewhere. But Hybern's horde was precisely where Jurian claimed they'd be. And as the Illyrian army swept for them while they marched over the Spring border and into Summer ... Hybern's forces certainly seemed shocked. Rhys had cloaked our forces--all of them. Sweat had slid down his temple at the strain, at keeping the mass of us hidden from sight and sound and scent as we flew mile after mile. My wings weren't strong enough--so Mor winnowed us through the sky, keeping pace with them. But we arrived together. And as Rhys ripped the sight shield away, revealing battle-hungry Illyrians spearing from the skies in neat, precise lines ... As he revealed the legion of Keir's Darkbringers charging on foot, swathed in wisps of night and armed with star-bright steel ... It was hard not to be smug at the panic that rippled over the marching mass of Hybern. But Hybern's army ... It stretched far--deep and long. Meant to sweep away everything in its path. "SHIELDS," Cassian bellowed at the front line. One by one by one, shields of red and blue and green flickered into life around the Illyrians and their weapons, overlapping like the scales of a fish. Overlapping like the solid metal shields they each bore on their left arms, locking into place from ankle to shoulder. Below, Keir's troops rippled with shadowy shields flaring into place before them. Mor winnowed us to the tree-covered hill that overlooked the field Cassian had deemed would be the best place to hit them based on Azriel's scouting. There was a slope to the grass--in our advantage. We held the high ground; a narrow, shallow river lay not too far back from Hybern's army. Success in battle, Cassian had told me that morning over a swift breakfast, was often decided not by numbers, but by picking where to fight. The Hybern army seemed to realize their disadvantage within moments. But the Illyrians had landed beside Keir's soldiers. Cassian, Azriel, and Rhys spread out amongst the front line, all clad in that black Illyrian armor, all armed as the other winged soldiers were: shield gripped in the left hand, Illyrian blade in the right, an assortment of daggers on them, and helmets. The helmets were the only markers of who they were. Unlike the smooth domes of the others, Rhys, Azriel, and Cassian wore black helmets whose cheek-guards had been fashioned and swept upward like ravens' wings. Albeit razor- sharp ravens' wings that jutted up on either side of the helmet, right above the ear, but ... The effect, I admitted, was terrifying. Especially with the two other swords strapped across their backs, the gauntlets that covered every inch of their hands, and the Siphons gleaming amongst Cassian's and Azriel's ebony armor. Rhys's own power roiled around him, readying to hammer the right flank while Cassian aimed for the left. Rhys was to conserve his power--in case the king arrived. Or worse--the Cauldron. This army, however huge ... It did not seem that the king was even there to lead it. Or Tamlin. Or Jurian. Merely an invading harbinger of the force to come, but sizable enough that the damage ... We could easily spy the damage behind the army, the plumes of smoke staining the cloudless summer sky. Mor and I said little in the hours that followed. I did not have it in me for words, for any sort of coherent speech as we watched. Either through our surprise or pure luck, there was no sign of that faebane. I was inclined to thank the Mother for that. Even if every soldier in our camp this morning had mixed Nuan's antidote into their gruel, it would do nothing against blocking weapons tipped in faebane from shattering shields. Only stop against the stifling of magic, should it come into contact either through that damned powder ... or by being impaled by a weapon tipped in it. Lucky--so lucky it was not in use today. Because seeing the carnage, the fine line of control ... There was no place for me on those front lines, where the Illyrians fought by the strength of their sword, their power, and their trust in the male on either side of them. Even Keir's soldiers fought as one--obedient and unfaltering, lashing out with shadows and steel. I would have been a fissure in that impenetrable armor--and what Cassian and the Illyrians unleashed upon Hybern ... Cassian slammed into that left flank. Siphons unleashed bursts of power that sometimes bounced off shields, sometimes found their mark and shredded flesh and bone. But where Hybern's magic shields held out ... Rhys, Azriel, and Cassian sent out blasts of their own power to shatter them. Leaving them vulnerable to those Siphons--or pure Illyrian steel. And if that did not fell them ... Keir and his Darkbringers cleaned up the rest. Precisely. Coolly. The field became a blood-drenched mud pit. Bodies gleamed in the morning sun, light bouncing off their armor. Hybern panicked at the unbreakable Illyrian lines that pushed and pushed them back. That battered them. And as that left flank broke apart, as its nobles fell or turned and fled ... The other Hybern soldiers began descending into panic, too. There was one mounted commander who did not go easily. Who didn't turn his horse toward that river behind them to flee. Cassian selected him as his opponent. Mor gripped my hand tight enough to hurt as Cassian stepped out of that impenetrable front line of shields and swords, the soldiers around him immediately closing the gap. Mud and blood splattered Cassian's dark helmet, his armor. He ditched his tall shield for a round one strapped across his back, crafted from the same ebony metal. And then he launched into a run. I could have sworn even Rhys paused on the other end of the battlefield to watch as Cassian cut his way through those enemy soldiers, aiming for the mounted Hybern commander. Who realized what and who was coming for him and started to search for a better weapon. Cassian had been born for this--these fields, this chaos and brutality and calculation. He didn't stop moving, seemed to know where every opponent fought both ahead and behind, seemed to breathe in the flow of the battle around him. He even let his Siphons' shield drop--to get close, to feel the impact of the arrows that he took in that ebony shield. If he slammed that shield into a soldier, his other arm was already swinging his sword at the next opponent. I'd never seen anything like it--the skill and precision. It was like a dance. I must have said it aloud because Mor replied, "For him, that's what battle is. A symphony." Her eyes did not stray from Cassian's death-dance. Three soldiers were brave or stupid enough to try to charge him. Cassian had them down and dying with four maneuvers. "Holy Mother," I breathed. That was who had been training me. Why Fae trembled at his name. Why the high-born Illyrian warriors had been jealous enough to want him dead. But there Cassian was, no one between him and the commander. The commander had found a discarded spear. He threw it. Fast and sure, I skipped a heartbeat as it spiraled for Cassian. His knees bent, wings tucked in tight, shield twisting-- He took the spear in the shield with an impact I could have sworn I heard, then sliced off the shaft and kept running. Within a heartbeat, Cassian had sheathed both shield and sword across his back. And I would have asked why but he'd already picked up another fallen spear. Already hurled it, his entire body going into the throw, the movement so perfect that I knew I'd one day paint it. Both armies seemed to stop at the throw. Even with the distance, Cassian's spear hit home. It went right through the commander's chest, so hard it knocked the male clean off his horse. By the time he was done falling, Cassian was there. His sword caught the sunlight as it lifted and plunged down. Cassian had picked his mark well. Hybern fled now. Outright turned and fled for the river. But Hybern found Tarquin's army waiting on its opposite bank, exactly where Cassian had ordered it to appear. Trapped with the Illyrians and Keir's Darkbringers at their backs and Tarquin's two thousand soldiers on the other side of the narrow river ... It was harder to watch--that slaughter. Mor said to me, "It's over." The sun was high in the sky, heat rising with every minute. "You don't need to see this," she added. Because some of the Hybern soldiers were surrendering. On their knees. As it was Tarquin's territory, Rhys yielded the decision about what to do with prisoners. From the distance, I picked out Tarquin from his armor-- more ornate than Rhysand's, but still brutal. Fish fins and scales seemed to be the motif, and his azure cloak flowed through the mud behind him as he stepped over fallen bodies to get to the few hundred surviving enemy. Tarquin stared at where the enemy had knelt, his helmet masking his features. Nearby, Rhys, Cassian, and Azriel monitored, speaking to Keir and the Illyrian captains. I did not see many wings amongst the fallen on the field. A mercy. The only mercy, it seemed, as Tarquin made a motion with his hand. Some of the Hybern soldiers began screaming for clemency, their offers to sell information ringing out, even to us. Tarquin pointed at a few of them, and they were hauled away by his soldiers. To be questioned. And I doubted it would be pleasant. But the others ... Tarquin stretched out his hand toward them. It took me a heartbeat to realize why the Hybern soldiers were thrashing and clawing at themselves, some trying to crawl away. But then one of them collapsed, and sunlight caught on his face. And even with the distance, I could tell-- could tell it was water now bubbling out of his lips. Out the lips of all the Hybern soldiers as Tarquin drowned them on dry land. I didn't see Rhys or the others for hours--not when he gave the order that the Illyrian war-camp was to be moved from the border of the Winter Court and rebuilt at the edge of the battlefield. So Mor and I winnowed to and from the camps as the exodus began. We brought my sisters last, waiting until many of the bodies had been turned to black dust by Rhysand. The blood and mud remained, but the camp maintained too good a position to yield--or waste time finding another one. Elain didn't seem to care. Didn't seem to even notice that we winnowed her. She just went from her tent to Mor's arms, then into the same tent rebuilt in the new camp. Nesta, however ... I told her upon arriving that everyone was fine. But when we winnowed to the battlefield ... She stared at that bloody, muddy plain. At the weapons soldiers of both courts were plundering from the fallen enemy. Nesta listened to the low-level Illyrian soldiers whispering about how Cassian had thrown that spear, how he'd cut down soldiers like stalks of wheat, how he'd fought like Enalius-- their most ancient warrior-god and the first of the Illyrians. It had been a while, it seemed, since they had seen Cassian in open battle. Since they'd realized that he'd been young in the War, and now ... the looks they gave Cassian as he passed ... they were the same as those the High Lords had given Rhys upon seeing his power. Like them, and yet Other. Nesta watched, and listened to it all, while the camp was built around us. She did not ask where the bodies had gone before her arrival. She wholly ignored the camp Keir and his Darkbringers built beside ours--the ebony-armored soldiers who sneered at her, at me, at the Illyrians. No, Nesta only made sure that Elain was dozing in her tent, and then offered to help cut up linen for bandages. We were doing just that around the early-evening fire when Rhys and Cassian approached, still in their armor, Azriel nowhere to be found. Rhys took a seat on the log I was perched atop of, armor thudding, and silently pressed a kiss to my temple. He reeked of metal and blood and sweat. His helmet clunked on the ground at our feet. I silently handed him a pitcher of water, and made to grab a glass when Rhys just lifted the pewter container and drank right from it. It sloshed over the sides, water pinging against the black metal coating his thighs, and when he at last set it down, he looked ... tired. In his eyes, Rhys seemed weary. But Nesta had jolted to her feet, staring at Cassian, at the helmet he had tucked into the crook of his arm, the weapons still poking above his shoulder, in need of cleaning. His dark hair hung limp with sweat, his face was mud-splattered where even the helmet had not kept it out. But she surveyed his seven Siphons, the dim red stones. And then she said, "You're hurt." Rhys snapped to attention at that. Cassian's face was grim--his eyes glassy. "It's fine." Even the words were laced with exhaustion. But she reached for his arm--his shield arm. Cassian seemed to hesitate, but offered it to her, tapping the Siphon atop his palm. The armor slid back a fraction over his forearm, revealing-- "You know better than to walk around with an injury," Rhys said a bit tensely. "I was busy," Cassian said, not taking his focus off Nesta as she studied the swollen wrist. How she'd detected it through the armor ... She must have read it in his eyes, his stance. I hadn't realized she'd been observing the Illyrian general enough to notice his tells. "And it'll be fixed by morning," Cassian added, daring Rhys to say otherwise. But Nesta's pale fingers gently probed his golden-brown skin, and he hissed through his teeth. "How do I fix it?" she asked. Her hair had been tied in a loose knot atop her head earlier in the day, and in the hours that we'd worked to ready and distribute supplies to the healers, through the heat and humidity, stray tendrils had come free to curl about her temple, her nape. Faint color had stained her cheeks from the sun, and her forearms, bare beneath the sleeves she'd rolled up, were flecked with mud. Cassian slowly sat on the log where she'd been perched a moment before, groaning softly--as if even that movement taxed him. "Icing it usually helps, but wrapping it will just lock it in place long enough for the sprain to repair itself--" She reached for the basket of bandages she'd been preparing, then for the pitcher at her feet. I was too tired to do anything other than watch as she washed his wrist, his hand, her own fingers gentle. Too tired to ask if she possessed the magic to heal it herself. Cassian seemed too weary to speak as well while she wrapped bandages around his wrist, only grunting to confirm if it was too tight or too loose, if it helped at all. But he watched her-- didn't take his eyes off her face, the brows bunched and lips pursed in concentration. And when she'd tied it neatly, his wrist wrapped in white, when Nesta made to pull back, Cassian gripped her fingers in his good hand. She lifted her gaze to his. "Thank you," he said hoarsely. Nesta did not yank her hand away. Did not open her mouth for some barbed retort. She only stared and stared at him, at the breadth of his shoulders, even more powerful in that beautiful black armor, at the strong column of his tan neck above it, his wings. And then at his hazel eyes, still riveted to her face. Cassian brushed a thumb down the back of her hand. Nesta opened her mouth at last, and I braced myself-- "You're hurt?" At the sound of Mor's voice, Cassian snatched his hand back and pivoted toward Mor with a lazy smile. "Nothing for you to cry over, don't worry." Nesta dragged her stare from his face--down to her now- empty hand, her fingers still curled as if his palm lay there. Cassian didn't look at Nesta as she rose, snatching up the pitcher, and muttered something about getting more water from inside the tent. Cassian and Mor fell into their banter, laughing and taunting each other about the battle and the ones ahead. Nesta didn't come back out again for some time. I helped with the wounded long into the night, Mor and Nesta working alongside me. A long day for all of us, yes, but the others ... They had fought for hours. From the tight angle of Mor's jaw as she tended to injured Darkbringers and Illyrians alike, I knew the various recountings of the battle wore on her--not for the tales of glory and gore, but for the sole fact that she had not been there to fight beside them. But between the Darkbringer forces and the Illyrians ... I wondered where she'd fight. Whom she'd command or answer to. Definitely not Keir, but ... I was still chewing it over when I at last slipped between the warm sheets of my bed and curled my body into Rhys's. His arm instantly slid over my waist, tugging me in closer. "You smell like blood," he murmured into the dimness. "Sorry," I said. I'd washed my hands and forearms before sliding into bed, but a full bath ... I had barely managed the walk through the camp moments ago. He stroked a hand over my waist, down to my hip. "You must be exhausted." "And you should be sleeping," I chided, shifting closer, letting his warmth and scent wrap around me. "Can't," he admitted, his lips brushing over my temple. "Why?" His hand drifted to my back, and I arched into the long, trailing strokes along my spine. "It takes a while--to settle myself after battle." It had been hours and hours since the fighting had ceased. Rhys's lips began a journey from my temple down my jaw. And even with the weight of exhaustion pressing on me, as his mouth grazed over my chin, as he nipped at my bottom lip ... I knew what he was asking. Rhys sucked in a breath as I traced the contours of his muscled stomach, as I marveled at the softness of his skin, the strength of the body beneath it. He pressed a featherlight kiss to my lips. "If you're too tired," he began, even as he went wholly still while my fingers continued their journey, past the sculpted muscles of his abdomen. I answered him with a kiss of my own. Another. Until his tongue slid over the seam of my lips and I opened for him. Our joining was fast, and hard, and I was clawing at his back before the end shattered through both of us, dragging my hands over his wings. For long minutes afterward, we remained there, my legs thrown over his shoulders, the rise and fall of his chest pushing into mine in a lingering echo of our bodies' movements. Then he withdrew, gently lowering my legs from his shoulders. He kissed the inside of each of my knees as he did so, setting them on either side of him as he rose up to kneel before me. The tattoos on his knees were nearly obscured by the rumpled sheets, the design stretched with the position. But I traced my fingers over the tops of those mountains, the three stars inked atop them, as he remained kneeling between my legs, gazing down at me. "I thought about you every moment I was on that battlefield," he said softly. "It focused me, centered me--let me get through it." I stroked those tattoos on his knees again. "I'm glad. I think ... I think some part of me was down there on that battlefield with you, too." I glanced to his suit of armor, cleaned and displayed on a dummy near the small dressing area. His winged helmet shone like a dark star in the dimness. "Seeing that battle today ... It felt different from the one in Adriata." Rhys only listened, those star-flecked eyes patient. "In Adriata, I didn't ..." I struggled for the words. "The chaos of the battle in Adriata was easier, somehow. Not easy, I mean "I know what you meant." I sighed, sitting up so that we were knee-to-knee and face- to-face. "What I'm trying and failing miserably to explain is that attacks like the one in Adriata, in Velaris ... I can fight in those. There are people to defend, and the disorder of it ... I can--I'll gladly fight in those battles. But what I saw today, that sort of warfare ..." I swallowed. "Will you be ashamed of me if I admit that I'm not sure if I'm ready for that sort of battling?" Line against line, swinging and stabbing until I didn't know up from down, until mud and gore blurred the line between enemy and foe, relying as much upon the warriors beside me as my own skill set. And the closeness of it, the sounds and sheer scale of the bloodbath ... He took my face in his hands, kissing me once. "Never. I can never be ashamed of you. Certainly not over this." He kept his mouth close to mine, sharing breath. "Today's battle was different from Adriata, and Velaris. If we had more time to train you with a unit, you could easily fight amongst the lines and hold your own. But only if you wanted to. And for now, these initial battles ... Being down in that slaughterhouse is not something I'd wish upon you." He kissed me again. "We are a pair," he said against my lips. "If you ever wish to fight by my side, it will be my honor." I pulled my head back, frowning at him. "I feel like a coward now." He stroked a thumb over my cheek. "No one would ever think that of you--not with all you have done, Feyre." A pause. "War is ugly, and messy, and unforgiving. The soldiers doing the fighting are only a fraction of it. Don't underestimate how far it goes for them to see you here--to see you tending to the wounded and participating in these meetings and councils." I considered, letting my fingers drift across the Illyrian tattoos over his chest and shoulders. And perhaps it was the afterglow of our joining, perhaps it was the battle today, but ... I believed him. Tarquin's army didn't blend into ours as Keir's did, but rather camped beside it. Azriel led team after team of scouts to find the rest of Hybern's host, discover their next movement ... But nothing. I wondered if Tamlin was with them--if he'd whispered to Hybern everything that had been discussed in that meeting. The weaknesses between courts. I didn't dare ask anyone. But I did dare to question Nesta about whether she felt the Cauldron's power stirring. Mercifully, she reported feeling nothing amiss. Even so ... I knew Rhys was frequently checking with Amren in Velaris--asking if she had made any discoveries with the Book. And even if she found some alternative way to stop that Cauldron ... We needed to know where the king was hiding the rest of his army first. And not so we could face it--not alone. No, so we could bring others to finish the job. But only once we knew where the rest of Hybern's army was--where I was to unleash Bryaxis. It would do no good to have Hybern learn of Bryaxis's existence and adjust its plans. No, only when that full army was upon us ... Only then would I set it upon them. The first three days after the battle, the armies healed their wounded and rested. By the fourth, Cassian ordered them to do menial tasks to stave off any restlessness and chances for dangerous grumbling. His first order: dig a trench around the entire camp. But the fifth day, the trench halfway finished ... Azriel appeared, panting, in the middle of our war-tent. Hybern had somehow skirted us entirely, and sent a force marching up the seam between the Autumn and Summer Courts. Heading for the Winter Court border. We couldn't glean a reason why. Azriel hadn't discovered one, either. They were half a day's flight from us. He'd already sent warnings to Kallias and Viviane. Rhys, Tarquin, and the others debated for hours, weighing the possibilities. Abandon this spot by the border, and we could be playing into Hybern's plans. But leave that northward army unattended and it could keep going north as far as it pleased. We could not afford to split our own army in two-- there weren't enough soldiers to spare. Until Varian came up with an idea. He dismissed all the captains and generals, Keir and Devlon looking none too pleased at the order as they stormed out, dismissed everyone but his sister, Tarquin, and my own family. "We march north--and we stay." Rhys lifted a brow. Cassian frowned. But Varian jabbed a finger on the map spread on the table we'd gathered around. "Spin a glamour--a good one. So that if anyone walks by here, they see and hear and smell an army. Put whatever spells in place to repel them from actually coming up to it. But let Hybern's eyes report that we are still here. That we choose to stay here." "While we march north under a sight shield," Cassian murmured, rubbing his jaw. "It could work." He added with a grin to Varian, "You ever get sick of all that sunshine, you can come play with us in Velaris." Though Varian frowned, something glinted in his eye. But Tarquin said to Rhys, "You could make such a deception?" Rhys nodded and winked at me. "With assistance from my mate." I prayed that I'd rested enough as they all looked to me. I was nearly drained by the time Rhys and I were finished that night. I followed his instructions, marking faces and details, willing that shape-shifting magic to craft them out of thin air, to give them life of their own. It was like ... applying a thin film over all those living in the camp, that would then separate when we moved out-- separate and grow into its own entity that walked and talked and did all manner of things here. While we marched to intercept Hybern's army, hidden from sight by Rhys. But it worked. Cresseida, skilled with glamours herself, worked personally on the Summer Court soldiers. She and I were both panting and sweaty hours later, and I nodded my thanks as she handed me a skein of water. She was not a trained warrior like her brother, but she was a solid, needed presence amongst the army--the soldiers looked to her for guidance and stability. We moved out again, a far larger beast than the one that had flown down here. The Summer Court soldiers and Keir's legion could not fly, but Tarquin dug deep into his reservoirs and winnowed them along with us. He'd be wholly empty by the time we reached the enemy, but he insisted he was better at fighting with steel anyway. We found the Hybern army at the northern edge of the mighty forest that stretched along the Summer Court's eastern border. Azriel had scouted the land ahead for Cassian, laid it out in precise detail. It was late enough in the afternoon that Hybern was readying to settle down for the night. Cassian had let our army rest all day, anticipating that. Knowing that at the end of a long day of marching, Hybern's forces would be exhausted, muddled. Another rule of war, he told me. Knowing when to pick your battles could be equally as important as where you fought them. With rain-heavy clouds sweeping in from the east and the sun sinking toward the trees behind us--sycamores and oaks that towered high--we landed. Rhys ripped off the glamour surrounding us. He wanted word to get out--wanted word to spread amongst Hybern's forces who was meeting them at every turn. Slaughtering them. But they already knew. Again, I watched from the camp itself, atop a broad rim leading into the grassy little valley where Hybern had planned to rest. Elain ducked into her tent the moment the Illyrian warriors built it for her. Only Nesta strode toward the edge of the tents to watch the battle on the valley floor below. Mor joined her, then me. Nesta did not flinch at the clash and din of battle. She only stared toward one black-armored figure, leading the lines, his occasional order to push or to hold that flank barking across the battle. Because this battle ... Hybern had been ready. And the appearance they'd given, of a tired army ready to rest for the night ... It had been a ruse, as our own had been. Keir's soldiers started going down first, shadows sputtering out. Their front lines buckling. Mor watched it, stone-faced. I had no doubt she was half hoping her father joined the dead now piling up. Even as Keir managed to rally the Darkbringers, reassembled that front line --only after Cassian had roared at him to fix it. And on the other side of the field ... Rhys and Tarquin were drained enough that they were actually battling sword to sword against soldiers. And again, no sign of the king or Jurian or Tamlin. Mor was hopping from one foot to another, glancing at me every now and then. The bloodshed, the brutality--it sang to some part of her. Being up here with me ... It was not where she wished to be. But this ... this running after armies, scrambling to stay ahead ... It would not provide a solution. Not for long. The skies opened up, and the battle turned into outright muddy slaughter. Siphons flared, soldiers died. Hybern wielded its own magic upon our forces, arrows tipped in faebane finally making an appearance, along with clouds of it, that mercifully didn't last long in the rain. And did not impact us--not one bit--with Nuan's antidote in our systems. Only those arrows, which were skillfully avoided with shields or outright destruction to their shafts, leaving the stone to fall harmlessly from the sky. Still Cassian, Azriel, and Rhys kept fighting, kept killing. Tarquin and Varian held their own--spreading out their soldiers to aid Keir's once-again foundering line. Too late. From the distance, through the rain, we could see perfectly as the dark line of Keir's soldiers caved to an onslaught of Hybern cavalry. "Shit," Mor breathed, gripping my arm tight enough to bruise, warm summer rain soaking our clothes, our hair. "Shit." Like a burst dam, Hybern's soldiers poured through, cleaving Keir's force in half. Cassian's bellowing was audible even from the hilltop--then he was soaring, dodging arrows and spears, his Siphons so dim they barely guarded him against it. I could have sworn Rhys roared some order to him --that Cassian disregarded as he landed in the middle, the middle of those enemy forces sundering our lines, and unleashed himself. Nesta inhaled in a sharp, high gasp. More and more--Hybern spread us farther and farther apart. Rhys's power slammed into the flank of them, trying to shove them back. But his power was drained, exhausted from last night. Dozens fell to those snapping shadows, rather than hundreds. "Re-form the lines," Mor was muttering, releasing me to pace, rain sluicing down her face. "Re-form the damned lines!" Cassian was trying. Azriel had lunged into the fray, nothing more than shadows edged in blue light, battling his way toward where Cassian fought, utterly surrounded. "Mother above," Nesta said softly. Not in awe. No--no, that was dread in her voice. And within my own as I said, "They can fix this." Or I prayed they could. Even if this battle ... this was not all that Hybern had to offer against us. This was not all they had to offer, and yet we were being pushed back, back, back-- Red flared in the heart of that battle like an exploding ember. A circle of soldiers died. But more of Hybern's soldiers pushed in around Cassian. Even Azriel could not get to his side. My stomach turned, over and over. Hybern had hidden the majority of its force somewhere. Our scouts could not find it. Azriel could not find it. And Elain ... She could not see that mighty army, she'd said. In her dreams awake and asleep. I knew little of war, of battle. But this ... it felt like patching up holes in a boat while it sank. As the rain drenched us, as Mor paced and swore at the slaughter, the bodies starting to pile up on our side, the foundering lines ... I realized what I had to do, if I could not be down there, fighting. Who I had to hunt down--and ask about the location of Hybern's true army. The Suriel. <|title|>Chapter 57 <|startofchapter|>"Absolutely not," Mor said when I pulled her a few feet away from Nesta, the din of battle and rain drowning out our voices. "Absolutely not." I jerked my head toward the valley below. "Go join them. You're wasted here. They need you." It was true. "Cassian and Az need you to push back the front lines." For Cassian's Siphons were beginning to sputter. "Rhys will kill me if I leave you here." "Rhys will do no such thing, and you know it. He's got wards around this camp, and I'm not entirely defenseless, you know." I wasn't lying, exactly, but ... The Suriel might very well not appear if Mor was there. And if I told her where I was going ... I had no doubt she would insist on coming with me. We didn't have the luxury of waiting for Jurian to give us information. About many things. I needed to leave--now. "Go fight. Make those Hybern pricks scream a bit." Nesta drew her attention away from the slaughter enough to add, "Help them." For that was Cassian, making another charge toward a Hybern commander. Hoping to spook the soldiers again. Mor frowned deeply, bounced once on her toes. "Just--be on your guard. Both of you." I gave her a wry look--tight before she rushed for her tent. I waited until she'd emerged again, buckling on weapons, and saluted me before she winnowed away. To the battlefield. Right to Azriel's side--just as a soldier nearly landed a blow to his back. Mor punched her sword through the soldier's throat before he could land that strike. And then Mor began cutting a path toward Cassian, toward the broken front line beyond him, her damp golden hair a ray of sunshine amid the mud and dark armor. Soldiers began screaming. Screamed some more when Azriel, blue Siphons flaring, fell into place beside her. Together, they plowed a path to Cassian--or tried to. They made it perhaps ten feet before they were swarmed again. Before the press of bodies made even Mor's hair vanish in mud and rain. Nesta laid a hand against her bare, rain-slick throat. Cassian began another assault on a Hybern captain--slower this time than he'd been. Now. I had to go now--quickly. I took a step away from the outlook. My sister narrowed her brows at me. "You're leaving?" "I'll be back soon," was all I said. I didn't dare wonder how much of our army would be left when I did. By the time I strode away, Nesta had already faced the battle once more, rain plastering her hair to her head. Resuming her unending vigil of the general battling on the valley floor below. I had to track the Suriel. And even though Elain could not see the Hybern host ... It was worth a try. Her tent was dim, and quiet--the sounds of slaughter far away, dreamlike. She was awake, staring blankly at the canvas ceiling. "I need you to find something for me," I said, dripping water everywhere as I laid a map across her thighs. Perhaps not as gentle as I should have been, but she at least sat up at my tone. Blinked at the map of Prythian. "Its called the Suriel--it's one of many who bear that name. But ... but it looks like this," I said, and reached for her hand to show her. I hesitated. "May I show it to you?" My sister's brown eyes were glazed. "Plant the image in your mind," I clarified. "So you know where to look." "I don't know how to look," Elain mumbled. "You can try." I should have asked Amren to train her, too. But Elain studied me, the map, then nodded. She had no mental shields, no barriers. The gates to her mind ... Solid iron, covered in vines of flowers--or it would have been. The blossoms were all sealed, sleeping buds tucked into tangles of leaves and thorns. I took a step beyond them, just into the antechamber of her mind, and planted the image of the Suriel there, trying to infuse it with safety--the truth that it looked terrifying, but had not harmed me. Still, Elain shuddered when I pulled out. "Why?" "It has answers I need. Immediately." Or else we might not have much of an army left to fight that entire Hybern host once I located it. Elain again glanced at the map. At me. Then closed her eyes. Her eyes shifted beneath her lids, the skin so delicate and colorless that the blue veins beneath were like small streams. "It moves ...," she whispered. "It moves through the world like ... like the breath of the western wind." "Where is it headed?" Her finger lifted, hovering over the map, the courts. Slowly, she set it down. "There," she breathed. "It is going there. Now." I looked at where she had laid her finger and felt the blood rush from my face. The Middle. The Suriel was headed to that ancient forest in the Middle. Just south--miles, perhaps ... From the Weaver of the Wood. I winnowed in five leaps. I was breathless, my power nearly drained thanks to the glamouring I'd done yesterday, the summoned flame I'd used to dry myself off, and the winnowing that had taken me from the battle and right into the heart of that ancient wood. The heavy, ripe air was as awful as I remembered, the forest thick with moss that choked the gnarled beeches and the gray stones scattered throughout. Then there was the silence. I wondered if I should have indeed brought Mor with me as I listened. As I felt with my lingering magic for any sign of it. The moss cushioned my steps as I eased into a walk. Scanning, listening. How far away, how small, that battle to the south felt. My swallow was loud in my ears. Things other than the Weaver prowled these woods. And the Weaver herself ... Stryga, the Bone Carver had called her. His sister. Both siblings to an awful, male creature lurking in another part of the world. I drew my Illyrian blade, the metal singing in the thick air. But an ancient, rasping voice asked behind me, "Have you come to kill me, or to beg for my help once again, Feyre Archeron?" <|title|>Chapter 58 <|startofchapter|>I turned, but did not sheath my blade across my back. The Suriel was standing a few feet away, clad not in the cloak I had given it months ago, but a different one--heavier and darker, the fabric already torn and shredded. As if the wind it traveled on had ripped through it with invisible talons. Only a few months since I had last seen it--when it had told me that Rhys was my mate. It might as well have been a lifetime ago. Its over-large teeth clacked faintly. "Thrice now, we have met. Thrice now, you have hunted for me. This time, you sent the trembling fawn to find me. I did not expect to see those doe-eyes peering at me from across the world." "Pm sorry if it was a violation," I said as steadily as I could. "But it's an urgent matter." "You wish to know where Hybern is hiding its army." "Yes. And other things. But let's start with that." A hideous, horrific smile. "Even I cannot see it." My stomach tightened. "You can see everything but that?" The Suriel angled its head in a way that reminded me it was indeed a predator. And there was no snare this time to hold it back. "He uses magic to cloak it--magic far older than I." "The Cauldron." Another awful smile. "Yes. That mighty, wicked thing. That bowl of death and life." It shivered with what I could have sworn was delight. "You have one already who can find Hybern." "Elain says she cannot see it--see past his magic." "Then use the other to track it." "Nesta. Use Nesta to track the Cauldron?" "Like calls to like. The King of Hybern does not travel without the Cauldron. So where it is, he and his army shall be. Tell the beautiful thief to find it." The hair on my arms rose. "How?" It angled its head, as if listening. "If she is unskilled ... bones will do the talking for her." "Scrying--you mean scrying with bones?" "Yes." Those tattered robes flitted in a phantom wind. "Bones and stones." I swallowed again. "Why did the Cauldron not react when I joined the Book and spoke the spell to nullify its power?" "Because you did not hold on for long enough." "It was killing me." "Did you think you could leash its power without a cost?" My heart stuttered. "I need to--to die for it to be stopped?" "So dramatic, human-heart. But yes--yes, that spell would have drained the life from you." "Is there--is there another spell to use instead? To nullify its powers." "If there were such a thing, you would still have to get close enough to the Cauldron to do it. Hybern will not make that mistake twice." I swallowed. "Even if we nullify the Cauldron ... will it be enough to stop Hybern?" "It depends on your allies. If they survive long enough to battle afterward." "Would the Bone Carver make a difference?" And Bryaxis. The Suriel had no eyelids. But its milky eyes flared with surprise. "I cannot see--not him. He is not ... born of this earth. His thread has not been woven in." Its twisted mouth tightened. "You wish to save Prythian so much that you would risk unleashing him." "Yes." The moment I located that army, I'd unleash Bryaxis upon it. But as for the Carver ... "He wanted a--gift. In exchange. The Ouroboros." The Suriel let out a sound that might have been a gasp-- delight or horror, I did not know. "The Mirror of Beginnings and Endings." "Yes--but ... I cannot retrieve it." "You are afraid to look. To see what is within." "Will it drive me--mad? Break me?" It was an effort not to flinch at that monstrous face, at the milky eyes and lipless mouth. All focused upon me. "Only you can decide what breaks you, Cursebreaker. Only you." Not an answer--not really. Certainly not enough to risk retrieving the mirror. The Suriel again listened to that phantom wind. "Tell the silver-eyed messenger that the answer lies on the second and penultimate pages of the Book. Together they hold the key." "The key to what?" The Suriel clicked its bony fingers together, like the many- jointed limbs of a crustacean, tip-tapping against each other. "The answer to what you need to stop Hy--" It took me a heartbeat to register what happened. To identify the wooden thing that burst through the Suriel's throat as an ash arrow. To realize that what sprayed in my face, landing on my tongue and tasting like soil, was black blood. To realize that the thudding before the Suriel could even scream ... more arrows. The Suriel stumbled to its knees, a choking sound coming out of that mouth. It had been afraid of the naga that day in the woods. Had known it could be killed. I surged toward it, palming a knife with my left hand, sword angling up. Another arrow fired, and I ducked behind a gnarled tree. The Suriel let out a scream at the impact. Birds scattered into flight, and my ears rang-- And then its labored, wet breathing filled the wood. Until a lilting female voice crooned, "Why does it talk to you, Feyre, when it would not even deign to speak with me?" I knew that voice. That laughter beneath the words. Ianthe. Ianthe was here. With two Hybern soldiers behind her. <|title|>Chapter 59 <|startofchapter|>Concealed behind the tree, I took in my surroundings. I was exhausted, but ... I could winnow. I could winnow and be gone. The ash arrows they'd put into the Suriel, however ... I met its eyes as it lay there, bleeding out on the moss. The same ash arrows that had brought down Rhys. But my mate's had been carefully placed to disable him. These had been aimed to kill. That mouth of too-big teeth formed a silent word. Run. "It took the King of Hybern days to unravel what you did to me," Ianthe purred, her voice drawing closer. "I still can't use most of my hand." I didn't reply. Winnow--I should winnow. Black blood dribbled out of the Suriel's neck, that arrow tip vulgar as it jutted up from its thick skin. I couldn't heal it--not with those ash arrows still in its flesh. Not until they were out. "I'd heard from Tamlin how you captured this one," Ianthe went on, coming closer and closer. "So I adapted your methods. And it would not tell me anything. But since you have made contact so many times, the robe I gave it ..." I could hear the smile in her voice. "A simple tracking spell, a gift from the king. To be triggered in your presence. If you should come calling again." Run, the Suriel mouthed once more, blood dribbling past its withered lips. That was pain in its eyes. Real pain, as mortal as any creature. And if Ianthe took it alive to Hybern ... The Suriel knew it was a possibility. It had begged me for freedom once ... yet it was willing to be taken. For me to run. Its milky eyes narrowed--in pain and understanding. Yes, it seemed to say. Go. "The king built shields in my mind," Ianthe prattled on, "to keep you from harming me again when I found you." I peered around the tree to spy her standing at the edge of the clearing, frowning at the Suriel. She wore her pale robes, that blue stone crowning her hood. Only two guards with her. Even after all this time ... She still underestimated me. I ducked back around before she could spot me. Met the Suriel's stare one more time. And I let it read every one of the emotions that solidified in me with absolute clarity. The Suriel began to shake its head. Or tried to. But I gave it a smile of farewell. And stepped into the clearing. "I should have slit your throat that night in the tent," I said to the priestess. One of the guards shot an arrow at me. I blocked it with a wall of hard air that instantly buckled. Drained--mostly drained. And if it took another hit from an ash arrow ... Ianthe's face tightened. "You'll find you want to reconsider how you speak to me. I'll be your best advocate in Hybern." "I suppose you'll have to catch me first," I said coolly-- and ran. I could have sworn that ancient forest moved to make room for me. Could have sworn it, too, read my final thoughts to the Suriel, and cleared the way. But not for them. I hurled every scrap of strength into my legs, into keeping upright, as I sprinted through the trees, leaping over rocks and streams, dodging moss-coated boulders. Yet those guards, yet Janthe, managed to keep close behind, even as they swore at the snapping trunks that seemed to shift into their way, the rocks that went loose beneath their feet. I only had to outrun them for so long. Only for a few miles. Draw them away from the Suriel, buy it time to flee. And make sure they paid for what they had done. All of it. I opened my senses, letting them lead the way. The forest did the rest. Perhaps she was waiting for me. Perhaps she had ordered the woods to open a path. The Hybern guards gained on me. My feet flew beneath me, swift as a deer. I began to recognize the trees, the rocks. There, I had stood with Rhys--there, I had flirted with him. There, he had lounged atop a branch while waiting for me. The air behind me parted--an arrow. I veered left, nearly slamming into a tree. The arrow went wide. The light shifted ahead--brighter. The clearing. I let out a whimper of relief that I made sure they heard. I broke from the tree line in a leap, knees popping as I flew over the stones leading to that hair-thatched cottage. "Help me," I breathed, making sure they heard that, too. The wooden door was already half-open. The world slowed and cleared with each step, each heartbeat, as I hurtled over the threshold. And into the Weaver's cottage. <|title|>Chapter 60 <|startofchapter|>I gripped the door handle as I passed the threshold, digging in my heels and throwing every scrap of strength into my arms to keep that door from shutting. From locking me in. Invisible hands shoved against it, but I gritted my teeth and braced a foot against the wall, iron biting into my hands. The room behind me was dark. "Thief," intoned a lovely voice in the blackness. "You do know," Ianthe tittered from outside the cottage, her steps slowing into a walk, "that we'll have to kill whoever is inside there with you. Selfish of you, Feyre." I panted, holding the door open, making sure they couldn't see me on the other side. "You have seen my twin," the Weaver hissed softly--with a hint of wonder. "I smell him on you." Outside, Ianthe and the guard grew closer. Closer and closer. Somewhere deep in the room, I felt her move. Felt her stand. And take a step toward me. "What are you," the Weaver breathed. "Feyre, you can be quite tedious," Ianthe said. Right outside. I could barely make out her pale robes through the crack between the door and threshold. "Do you think you can ambush us in there? I saw your shield. You're drained. And I do not think your glowing trick will help." The Weaver's dress rustled as she crept closer in the gloom. "Who did you bring, little wolf? Who did you bring to me?" Ianthe and her two guards stepped over the threshold. Then another step. Past the open door. They didn't see me in the shadows behind it. "Dinner," I said to the Weaver, whirling around the door-- to its outside face. And let go of the handle. Just as the door slammed shut hard enough to rattle the cottage, I saw the ball of faelight that Ianthe lifted to illuminate the room. Saw the horrible face of the Weaver, that mouth of stumped teeth opening wide with delight and unholy hunger. A death- god of old--starved for life. With a beautiful priestess before her. I was already hurtling for the trees when the guards and Ianthe began screaming. Their unending screams followed me for half a mile. By the time I reached the spot where I'd seen the Suriel fall, they'd faded. Sprawled out, the Suriel's bony chest heaved unevenly, its breaths few and far between. Dying. I slid to my knees before it, sinking into the bloody moss. "Let me help you. I can heal you." I'd do it the same way I'd helped Rhysand. Remove those arrows--and offer it my blood. I reached for the first one, but a dry, bony hand settled on my wrist. "Your magic ...," it rasped, "is spent. Do not ... waste it." "I can save you." It only gripped my wrist. "I am already gone." "What--what can I do?" The words turned thin--brittle. "Stay ...," it breathed. "Stay ... until the end." I took its hand in mine. "I'm sorry." It was all I could think to say. I had done this--I had brought it here. "I knew," it gasped, sensing my shift in thoughts. "The tracking ... I knew of it." "Then why come at all?" "You ... were kind. You ... fought your fear. You were ... kind," it said again. I began crying. "And you were kind to me," I said, not brushing away the tears that fell onto its bloodied, tattered robe. "Thank you--for helping me. When no one else would." A small smile on that lipless mouth. "Feyre Archeron." A labored breath. "I told you--to stay with the High Lord. And you did." Its warning to me that first time we'd met. "You--you meant Rhys." All this time. All this time-- "Stay with him ... and live to see everything righted." "Yes. I did--and it was." "No--not yet. Stay with him." "I will." I always would. Its chest rose--then fell. "I don't even know your name," I whispered. The Suriel-- it was a title, a name for its kind. That small smile again. "Does it matter, Cursebreaker?" "Yes." Its eyes dimmed, but it did not tell me. It only said, "You should go now. Worse things--worse things are coming. The blood ... draws them." I squeezed its bony hand, the leathery skin growing colder. "I can stay a while longer." I had killed enough animals to know when a body neared death. Soon, now--it would be a matter of breaths. "Feyre Archeron," the Suriel said again, gazing at the leafy canopy, the sky peeking through it. A painful inhale. "A request." I leaned close. "Anything." Another rattling breath. "Leave this world ... a better place than how you found it." And as its chest rose and stopped altogether, as its breath escaped in one last sigh, I understood why the Suriel had come to help me, again and again. Not just for kindness ... but because it was a dreamer. And it was the heart of a dreamer that had ceased beating inside that monstrous chest. Its sudden silence echoed into my own. I laid my head on its chest, on that now-silent vault of bone, and wept. I wept and wept, until there was a strong hand at my shoulder. I didn't know the scent, the feel of that hand. But I knew the voice as Helion said softly to me, "Come, Feyre. It is not safe here. Come." I lifted my head. Helion was there, features grim, his brown skin ashen. "I can't leave it here like this," I said, refusing to let go of its hand. I didn't care how Helion had found me. Why he'd found me. He looked to the fallen creature, mouth tightening. "I'll take care of it." Burn it--with the power of the sun. I let him help me to my feet. Let him extend a hand toward that body-- "Wait." Helion obeyed. "Give me your cloak. Please." Brows narrowing, Helion unfastened the rich crimson cloak pinned at each shoulder. I didn't bother to explain as I covered the Suriel's body with the fine fabric. Far finer than the hateful rags Ianthe had given it. I tucked the High Lord's cloak gently around its broad shoulders, its bony arms. "Thank you," I said one last time to the Suriel, and stepped away. Helion's flame was a pure, blinding white. It burned the Suriel into ashes within a heartbeat. "Come," Helion said again, extending a hand. "Let's get you to the camp." It was the kindness in his voice that cracked my chest. But I took Helion's hand. As warm light whisked us away, I could have sworn that the pile of ashes was stirred by a phantom wind. <|title|>Chapter 61 <|startofchapter|>Helion winnowed me into the camp. Right into Rhys's war- tent. My mate was pale. Blood-splattered and filthy, from his skin to his armor to his hair. I opened my mouth--to ask how the battle had gone, to say what had happened, I don't know. But Rhys just reached for me, folding me into his chest. And at the smell and warmth and solidity of him ... I began weeping again. I didn't know who was in the tent. Who had survived the battle. But they all left. Left, while my mate held me, rocking me gently, as I cried and cried. He only told me what had happened when my tears had quieted. When he'd washed the Suriel's black blood from my hands, my face. I was out of the tent a heartbeat later, charging through the mud, dodging exhausted and weary soldiers. Rhys was a step behind me, but said nothing as I shoved through flaps of another tent and took stock of what and who was before me. Mor and Azriel were standing before the cot, monitoring every move the healer sitting beside it made. As she held her glowing hands over Cassian. I understood then--the quiet Cassian had once mentioned to me. It was now in my head as I looked at his muddy, pained face--pained, even in unconsciousness. As I heard his labored, wet breathing. As I beheld the slice curving up from his navel to the bottom of his sternum. The split flesh. The blood--mostly just a trickle. I swayed--only for Rhys to grip me beneath the elbows. The healer didn't turn to look at me as her brow bunched in concentration, hands flaring with white light. Beneath them-- slowly, the lips of the wound reached toward each other. If it was this bad now-- "How," I rasped. Rhys had told me three things a moment ago: We'd won--barely. Tarquin had again decided what to do with any survivors. And Cassian had been gravely injured. "Where were you," was all Mor said to me. She was soaked, bloody, and coated in mud. Azriel was, too. No sign of injuries beyond minor cuts, mercifully. I shook my head. I'd let Rhys into my mind while he held me. Showed him everything--explained Ianthe and the Suriel and the Weaver. What it had told me. Rhys's eyes had gone distant for a moment, and I knew Amren was on her way, the Book in tow. To help Nesta track that Cauldron--or try to. He could explain to Mor. He'd only known I was gone after the battle stopped-- when he realized Mor had been fighting. And that I was not at the camp anymore. He'd just reached Elain's tent when Helion sent word he'd found me. Using whatever gift he possessed that allowed him to sense such things. And was bringing me back. Vague, brief details. "Is he--is he going to--" I couldn't finish the rest. Words had become as foreign and hard to reach as the stars. "No," the healer said without looking at me. "He'll be sore for a few days, though." Indeed, she'd gotten either side of the wound to touch--to now start weaving together. Bile surged up my throat at the sight of that raw flesh-- "How," I asked again. "He wouldn't wait for us," Mor said flatly. "He kept charging--trying to re-form the line. One of their commanders engaged him. He wouldn't turn away. By the time Az got there, he was down." Azriel's face was stone-cold, even as his hazel eyes fixed unrelentingly upon that knitting wound. Mor said again, "Where did you go?" "If you're about to fight," the healer said sharply, "take it outside. My patient doesn't need to hear this." None of us moved. Rhys brushed a hand down my arm. "You are, as always, free to go wherever and whenever you wish. But what I think Mor is saying is ... try to leave a note the next time." The words were casual, but that was panic in his eyes. Not --not the controlling fear Tamlin had once succumbed to, but ... genuine terror of not knowing where I was, if I needed help. Just as I would want to know where he was, if he needed help, if he vanished when our enemies surrounded us. "I'm sorry," I said. To him, to the others. Mor didn't so much as look at me. "You have nothing to be sorry for," Rhys replied, hand sliding to cup my cheek. "You decided to take things into your own hands, and got us valuable information in the process. But ..." His thumb stroked over my cheekbone. "We have been lucky," he breathed. "Keeping a step ahead--keeping out of Hybern's claws. Even if today ... today wasn't so fortunate on the battlefield. But the cynic in me wonders if our luck is about to expire. And I would rather it not end with you." They all had to think me young and reckless. No, Rhys said through the bond, and I realized I'd left my shields open. Believe me, if you knew half of the shit Cassian and Mor have pulled, you'd get why we don't. I just ... Leave a note. Or tell me the next time. Would you have let me go if I had? I do not let you do anything. He tilted my face up, Mor and Azriel looking away. You are your own person, you make your own choices. But we are mates--I am yours, and you are mine. We do not let each other do things, as if we dictate the movements of each other. But ... I might have insisted I go with you. More for my own mental well-being, just to know you were safe. You were occupied. A slash of a smile. If you were hell-bent on going into the Middle, I would have unoccupied myself from battle. I waited for him to chide me about not waiting until they were done, about all of it, but ... he angled his head. "I wonder if the Weaver forgives you now," he mused aloud. Even the healer seemed to start at the name--the words. A shiver ran down my spine. "I don't want to know." Rhys let out a low laugh. "Then let's never find out." But the amusement faded as he again surveyed Cassian. The wound that was now sealed over. The Suriel wasn't your fault. I loosed a breath as Cassian's eyelids began to shift and flutter. I know. I'd already added its death to my ever-growing list of things I'd soon make Hybern pay for. Long minutes passed, and we stood in silence. I did not ask where Nesta was. Mor barely acknowledged me. And Rhys ... He perched on the foot of the cot as Cassian's eyes at last opened, and the general let out a groan of pain. "That's what you get," the healer chided, gathering her supplies, "for stepping in front of a sword." She frowned at him. "Rest tonight and tomorrow. I know better than to insist on a third day after that, but try not to leap in front of blades anytime soon." Cassian just blinked rather dazedly at her before she bowed to Rhys and me and left. "How bad," he asked, his voice hoarse. "How bad was your injury," Rhys said mildly, "or how badly did we have our asses kicked?" Cassian blinked again. Slowly. As if whatever sedative he'd been given still held sway. "To answer the second question," Rhys went on, Mor and Azriel backing away a step or two as something sharpened in my mate's voice, "we managed. Keir took heavy hits, but ... we won. Barely. To answer the first ..." Rhys bared his teeth. "Don't you ever pull that kind of shit again." The glaze wore off Cassian's eyes as he heard the challenge, the anger, and tried to sit up. He hissed, scowling down at the red, angry slice down his chest. "Your guts were hanging out, you stupid prick," Rhys snapped. "Az held them in for you." Indeed, the shadowsinger's hands were caked in blood-- Cassian's blood. And his face ... cold with--anger. "I'm a soldier," Cassian said flatly. "It's part of the job." "I gave you an order to wait," Rhys growled. "You ignored it." I glanced to Mor, to Azriel--a silent question of whether we should remain. They were too busy watching Rhys and Cassian to notice. "The line was breaking," Cassian retorted. "Your order was bullshit." Rhys braced his hands on either side of Cassian's legs and snarled in his face, "I am your High Lord. You don't get to disregard orders you don't like." Cassian sat up this time, swearing at the pain lingering in his body. "Don't you pull rank because you're pissed off--" "You and your damned theatrics on the battlefield nearly got you killed." And even as Rhys spat the words--that was panic, again, in his eyes. His voice. "I'm not pissed. I'm furious." "So you're allowed to be mad about our choices to protect you--and we're not allowed to be furious with you for your self-sacrificing bullshit?" Rhys just stared at him. Cassian stared right back. "You could have died," was all Rhys said, his voice raw. "So could you." Another beat of silence--and in its wake, the anger shifted. Rhys said quietly, "Even after Hybern ... I can't stomach it." Seeing him hurt. Any of us hurt. And the way Rhys spoke, the way Cassian leaned forward, wincing again, and gripped Rhys's shoulder ... I strode out of the tent. Left them to talk. Azriel and Mor followed behind me. I squinted at the watery light--the very last before true dark. When my vision adjusted ... Nesta stood by the nearest tent, an empty water bucket between her feet. Her hair a damp mess atop her mud-flecked head. Watching us emerge, grim- faced-- "He's fine. Healed and awake," I said quickly. Nesta's shoulders sagged a bit. She'd saved me the trouble of hunting her down to ask her about tracking the Cauldron. Better to do it now, with some privacy. Especially before Amren arrived. But Mor said coldly, "Shouldn't you be refilling that bucket?" Nesta went stiff. Sized up Mor. But Mor didn't flinch from that look. After a moment, Nesta picked up her bucket, mud caked up to her shins, and continued on, steps squelching. I turned, finding Azriel striding for the commanders' tent, but Mor-- Livid. She was absolutely livid as she faced me. "She didn't bother to tell anyone that you left." Hence the anger. "Nesta is many things, but she's certainly loyal." Mor didn't smile. Not as she said, "You lied." She stormed for her own tent, and with that comment ... I had no choice but to follow her in. The space was mostly occupied with her bed and a small desk littered with weapons and maps. "I didn't lie," I said, wincing. "I just ... didn't tell you what I planned to do." She gaped at me. "You nudged me to leave you, insisting you would be safe at the camp." "I'm sorry," I said. "Sorry? Sorry?" She splayed her arms. Bits of mud flew off. I didn't know what to do with my own--how to even look her in the eye. I'd seen her mad before, but never ... never at me. I'd never had a friend to quarrel with--who cared enough. "I know everything you're about to say, every excuse for why I couldn't go with you," Mor snapped. "But none of it excuses you for lying to me. If you'd explained, I would have let you go--if you'd trusted me, I would have let you go. Or maybe talked you out of an idiotic idea that nearly got you killed. They are hunting for you. They want to get their hands on you and use you. Hurt you. You've only seen a taste of what Hybern can do, what they delight in. And to break you to his will, the king will do anything." I didn't know what to say other than, "We needed this information." "Of course we did. But do you know what it felt like to look Rhys in the eye and tell him I had no idea where you were? To realize--for myself--that you had vanished, and likely duped me into enabling it?" She scrubbed at her filthy face, smearing the mud and gore further. "I thought you were smarter than that. Better than that sort of thing." The words sent a line of fire searing across my vision, burning down my spine. "I'm not going to listen to this." I turned to leave, but Mor was already there, gripping my arm. "Oh, yes, you are. Rhys might be all smiles and forgiveness, but you still have us to answer to. You are my High Lady. Do you understand what it means when you imply you don't trust us to help you? To respect your wishes if you want to do something alone? When you Jie to us?" "You want to talk about lying?" I didn't even know what came out of my mouth. I wished I'd killed Ianthe myself, if only to get rid of the rage that writhed along my bones. "How about the fact that you lie to yourself and all of us every single day?" She went still, but didn't loosen her hold on my arm. "You don't know what you're talking about." "Why haven't you ever made a move for Azriel, Mor? Why did you invite Helion to your bed? You clearly found no pleasure in it--I saw the way you looked the next day. So before you accuse me of being a liar, I'd suggest you look long and hard at yourself--" "That's enough." "Is it? Don't like someone pushing you about it? About your choices? Well, neither do I." Mor dropped my arm. "Get out." "Fine." I didn't glance back as I left. I wondered if she could hear my thunderous heartbeat with every storming step I took through the muddy camp. Amren found me within twenty steps, a wrapped bundle in her arms. "Every time you lot leave me at home, someone manages to get gutted." <|title|>Chapter 62 <|startofchapter|>I couldn't bring myself to smile at Amren. I could barely keep my chin high. She peered behind me, as if she could see the path I'd taken from Mor's tent, smell the fight on me. "Be careful," Amren warned as I fell into step beside her, heading for our tent again, "of how you push her. There are some truths that even Morrigan has not herself faced." The hot anger was swiftly slipping into something cold and queasy and heavy. "We all fight from time to time, girl," Amren said. "Both of you should cool your heels. Talk tomorrow." "Fine." Amren shot me a sharp look, her hair swinging with the motion, but we'd reached my tent. Rhys and Azriel were holding Cassian between them as they gently set him into a chair at the paper-strewn desk. The general's face was still grayish, but someone had found a shirt for him--and washed off the blood. From the way Cassian sagged in that seat ... He must have insisted he come. And from the way Rhys lightly mussed his hair as he strode to the other side of the desk ... That wound, too, had been patched up. Rhys lifted a brow as I entered, still stomping a bit. I shook my head. I'll tell you later. A caress of claws down my innermost barrier--a comforting touch. Amren laid the Book onto the desk with a thud that echoed in the earth beneath our feet. "The second and penultimate pages," I said, trying not to flinch at the power of the Book slithering through the tent. "The Suriel claimed the key you were looking for is there. To nullify the Cauldron's power." I assumed Rhys had told Amren what had occurred--and assumed that he'd told someone to fetch Nesta, since she pushed through the heavy flaps a moment later. "Did you bring them?" Rhys asked Amren as Nesta silently approached the table. Still coated in mud up to her shins, my sister paused on the other side--away from where Cassian now sat. Looked him over. Her face revealed nothing, yet her hands ... I could have sworn a faint tremor rippled through her fingers before she balled them into fists and faced Amren. Cassian watched her for a moment longer before turning his head toward Amren as well. How long had Nesta stood atop that hill, watching the battle? Had she seen him fall? Amren reached into the pocket of her pewter cloak and chucked a black velvet bag onto the desk. It clacked and thunked as it hit the wood. "Bones and stones." Nesta only angled her head at the sight of the bag. Your sister came immediately when I explained what we needed, Rhys said. I think seeing Cassian hurt convinced her not to pick a fight today. Or convinced my sister to pick a fight with someone else entirely. Nesta lifted the bag. "So, I scatter these like some backstreet charlatan and it'll find the Cauldron?" Amren let out a low laugh. "Something like that." Arcs of mud lay beneath Nesta's nails. She didn't seem to notice as she untied the small pouch and dumped out its contents. Three stones, four bones. The latter were brown and gleamed with age; the former were white as the moon and smooth as glass, each marked with a thin, reedy letter I did not recognize. "Three stones for the faces of the Mother," Amren said upon seeing Nesta's raised brows. "Four bones ... for whatever reason the charlatans came up with that I can't be bothered to remember." Nesta snorted. Rhys echoed the sentiment. My sister said, "So what--I just shake them around in my hands and chuck them? How am I to make sense of any of it?" "We can figure it out," Cassian said, his voice rough and weary. "But start with holding them in your hands and thinking--about the Cauldron." "Don't just think about it," Amren corrected. "You must cast your mind toward it. Find the bond that links you." Even I paused at that. And Nesta, stones and bones now in hand ... She made no move to close her eyes. "I--am I to ... touch it?" "No," Amren warned. "Just come close. Find it, but do not interact." Nesta still didn't move. She could not use the bathtub, she'd told me. Because the memories it dragged up-- Cassian said to her, "Nothing can harm you here." He sucked in a breath, groaning softly, and rose to his feet. Azriel tried to stop him, but Cassian brushed him off and strode for my sister's side. He braced a hand on the desk when he at last stopped. "Nothing can harm you," he repeated. Nesta was still looking at him when she finally shut her eyes. I shifted, and the angle allowed me to see what I hadn't detected before. Nesta stood before the map, a fist of bones and stones clenched over it. Cassian remained at her side--his other hand on her lower back. And I marveled at the touch she allowed--marveled at it as much as I did the mud-splattered hand she held out. The concentration that settled over her face. Her eyes shifted beneath their lids, as if scanning the world. "I don't see anything." "Go deeper," Amren urged. "Find that tether between you." She stiffened, but Cassian stepped closer, and she settled again. A minute went by. Then another. A muscle twitched on Nesta's brow. Her hand bobbed. Her breath then came fast and hard, her lips curling back as she panted through her teeth. "Nesta," Cassian warned. "Quiet," Amren snapped. A small noise came out of her--one of terror. "Where is it, girl," Amren coaxed. "Open your hand. Let us see. Nesta's fingers only clutched tighter, the whites of her knuckles as stark as the stones held within them. Too deep--whatever she had done-- I lunged for her. Not physically, but with my mind. If Elain's mental gates were those of a sleeping garden, Nesta's ... They belonged to an ancient fortress, sharp and brutal. The sort I imagined they once impaled people upon. But they were open wide. And inside ... Dark. Dark like I had never known, even with Rhysand. Nesta. I took a step into her mind. The images slammed into me. One after one after one, I saw them. The army that stretched into the horizon. The weapons, the hate, the sheer size. I saw the king standing over a map in a war-tent, flanked by Jurian and several commanders, the Cauldron squatting in the center of the room behind them. And there was Nesta. Standing in that tent, watching the king, the Cauldron. Frozen in place. With undiluted fear. "Nesta." She did not seem to hear me as she stared at them. I reached for her hand. "You found it. I see--I see where it is. Nesta's face was bloodless. But she at last dragged her attention to me. "Feyre." Surprise lit her terror-wide eyes. "Let's go back," I said. She nodded, and we turned. But we felt it--we both did. Not the king or the commanders plotting with him. Not Jurian as he played his deadly game of deception. But the Cauldron. As if some great sleeping beast opened an eye. The Cauldron seemed to sense us watching. Sense us there. I felt it stir--tike it would lunge for Nesta. I grabbed my sister and ran. "Open your fist," I ordered her as we sprinted for the iron gates to her mind. "Open it now." She only panted, and that monstrous force swelled behind us, a black wave rising up. "Open it now, or it will get in here. Open it now, Nesta!" I heard the words as I threw myself out of her mind--heard them because I'd been shouting in that tent. With a gasp, Nesta's fingers splayed wide, scattering stones and bones over the map. Cassian caught her with an arm around the waist as she swayed. He hissed in pain at the movement. "What the hell--" "Look," Amren breathed. There was no throw that could have done it--save for one blessed by magic. The stones and bones formed a perfect, tight circle around a spot on the map. Nesta and I went pale. I had seen the size of that army--we both had. While Hybern had been driving us northward, letting us chase them in these two battles ... The king had amassed his host along the western edge of the human territory. Perhaps no more than a hundred miles from our family's estate. Rhys called in Tarquin and Helion to show them what we'd discovered. Too few. We had too few soldiers, even with three armies here, to take on that host. I'd shown Rhysand what I'd seen-- and he'd shown it to the others. "Kallias will arrive soon," Helion said, dragging his hands through his onyx hair. "He'd have to bring forty thousand soldiers," Cassian said. "I doubt he has half that." Rhys was staring and staring at that cluster of stones and bones on the map. I could feel the wrath rippling off him--not just at Hybern, but himself for not thinking Hybern might be deliberately toying with us. Positioning us here. We'd won the high ground these two battles--Hybern had won the high ground in this war. He knew what waited in the Middle. And Hybern had now forced us to gather here--in this spot --so that he and his behemoth army could drive us northward. A clean sweep from the south, eventually pushing us into the Middle or forcing us to break apart to avoid the lethal tangle of trees and denizens. And if we took the battle to them ... We might court death. None of us were foolish enough to risk building any plans around Jurian, regardless of where his true allegiance lay. Our best chance was in buying time for other allies to arrive. Kallias. Thesan. Tamlin had chosen who to back in this war. And even if he'd picked Prythian, he would have been left with the problem of mustering a Spring Court force after I'd destroyed their faith in him. And Miryam and Drakon ... Not enough time, Rhys said to me. To hunt for them--find them, and bring back their army. We could return to find Hybern has wiped our own off the map. But there was the Carver--if I dared risk retrieving his prize. I didn't mention it, didn't offer it. Not until I could know for certain--once I wasn't about to faint from exhaustion. "We'll rest on it," Tarquin said, blowing out a breath. "Meet at dawn tomorrow. Making a decision after a long day never helped anyone." Helion agreed, and saw himself out. It was hard not to stare, not to compare his features to Lucien's. Their nose was the same--eerily identical. How had no one ever called him out for it? I supposed it was the least of my worries. Tarquin frowned at the map one last time and declared, "We'll find a way to face this." Rhys nodded, while Cassian's mouth quirked to the side. He'd slid back into his chair for the discussion, and now nursed a cup of some healing brew Azriel had fetched for him. Tarquin turned from the table, just as the tent flaps parted for a pair of broad shoulders-- Varian. He didn't so much as look at his High Lord, his focus going right to where Amren sat at the head of the table. As if he'd sensed she was here--or someone had reported. And he'd come running. Amren's eyes flicked up from the Book as Varian halted. A coy smile curved her red lips. There was still blood and dirt splattered on Varian's brown skin, coating his silver armor and close-cropped white hair. He didn't seem to notice or care as he strode for Amren. And none of us dared to speak as Varian dropped to his knees before Amren's chair, took her shocked face in his broad hands, and kissed her soundly. <|title|>Chapter 63 <|startofchapter|>None of us lasted long after dinner. Amren and Varian didn't even bother to join us. No, she'd just wrapped her legs around his waist, right there in front of us, and he'd stood, lifting her in one swift movement. I wasn't entirely sure how Varian managed to walk them out of the tent while still kissing her, Amren's hands dragging through his hair, letting out noises that were unnervingly like purring as they vanished into the camp. Rhys had let out a low laugh as we all gawked in their wake. "I suppose that's how Varian decided he'd tell Amren he was feeling rather grateful she ordered us to go to Adriata." Tarquin cringed. "We'll alternate who has to deal with them on holidays." Cassian chuckled hoarsely, and looked to Nesta, who remained pale and quiet. What she'd seen, what I'd seen in her mind ... The size of that army ... "Eat or bed?" Cassian had asked Nesta, and I honestly couldn't tell if he'd meant it as some invitation. I debated telling him he was in no shape. Nesta only said, "Bed." And there was certainly no invitation in the exhausted reply. Rhys and I managed to eat, quietly discussing what we'd seen. Exhaustion weighted my every breath, and I'd barely finished my plate of roast mutton before I crawled into bed and passed out atop the blankets. Rhys woke me only to tug off my boots and jacket. Tomorrow morning. We'd figure out how to deal with everything tomorrow morning. I'd talk to Amren about finally mustering Bryaxis to help us wipe out that army. Maybe there was something else we weren't seeing. Some additional shot at salvation beyond that nullifying spell. My dreams were a tangled garden, thorns snagging on me as I stumbled through them. I dreamed of the Suriel, bleeding out and smiling. I dreamed of the Weaver's open mouth ripping into Ianthe while she still screamed. I dreamed of Lord Graysen--so mortal and young--standing at the edge of the camp, beckoning to Elain. Telling her he'd come for her. To come home with him. That he'd found a way to undo what had been done to her--to make her human again. I dreamed of that Cauldron in the King of Hybern's war- tent, so dark and slumbering ... Awakening as Nesta and I stood there, invisible and unseen. How it had watched back. Known us. I could feel it watching me, even then. In my dreams. Feel it extend an ancient, black tendril toward me-- I jolted awake. Rhys's naked body was wrapped around mine, his face softened with sleep. In the blackness of the tent, I listened. Crackling fires outside. The drowsy murmurs of the soldiers on watch. The wind sighing along the canvas tents, snapping at the banners crowning them. I scanned the dark, listening. The skin on my arms pebbled. "Rhys." He was instantly awake---sitting upright. "What is it?" "Something ..." I listened so hard my ears strained. "Something is here. Something is wrong." He moved, hauling on his pants and knife-belt. I followed suit, still trying to listen, fingers stumbling over the buckles. "I dreamed," I whispered. "I dreamed about the Cauldron ... that it was watching again." "shit." The word was a hiss of breath. "I think we opened a door," I breathed, shoving my feet into my boots. "I think ... I think ..." I couldn't finish the sentence as I hurried for the tent flaps, Rhys at my heels. Nesta. I had to find Nesta-- Gold-brown hair flashed in the firelight, and she was already there, hurrying for me, still in her nightgown. "You hear it, too," she panted. Hear--I couldn't hear, but just feel-- Amren's small figure darted around a tent, wearing what looked to be Varian's shirt. It came down to her knees, and its owner was indeed behind her, bare-chested as Rhys was, and wide-eyed. Amren's bare feet were splattered in mud and grass. "It came here--its power. I can feel it--slithering around. Looking." "The Cauldron," Varian said, brows narrowing. "But--it's aware?" "We pried too deep," Amren said. "Battle aside, it knows where we are as much as we now know its location." Nesta raised a hand. "Listen." And I heard it then. It was a song and invitation, a cluster of notes sung by a voice that was male and female, young and old, haunting and alluring and-- "I can't hear anything," Rhys said. "You were not Made," Amren snapped. But we were. The three of us ... Again, the Cauldron sang its siren song. My very bones recoiled. "What does it want?" I felt it pulling away--felt it sliding off into the night. Azriel stepped out of a shadow. "What is that," he hissed. My brows rose. "You hear it?" A shake of the head. "No--but the shadows, the wind ... They recoil." The Cauldron sang again. Distant--withdrawing. "I think it's leaving," I whispered. Cassian stumbled and staggered for us a moment later, a hand braced on his chest, Mor on his heels. She did not so much as look at me, nor I her, as Rhys told them. Standing together in the dead of night-- The Cauldron sang one final note--then went silent. The presence, the weight ... vanished. Amren loosed a sigh. "Hybern knows where we are by now. The Cauldron likely wanted to have a look for itself. After we taunted it." I rubbed at my face. "Let's pray that's the last we see of it." Varian angled his head. "So you three ... because you were Made, you can hear it? Sense it?" "It would appear so," Amren said, looking inclined to tug him back to wherever they'd been, to finish what they'd no doubt still been in the middle of doing. But Azriel asked softly, "What about Elain?" Something cold went through me. Nesta was just staring at Azriel. Staring and staring-- Then she broke into a run. Her bare feet slid through the mud, splattering me as we charged for our sister's tent. "Elain--" Nesta shoved open the tent. She stopped short so fast I slammed into her. The tent--the tent was empty. Nesta flung herself inside, tossing away blankets, as if Elain had somehow sunk into the ground. "Elain!" I whirled into the camp, scanning the tents nearby. One look at Rhys conveyed what we'd found inside. An Illyrian blade appeared in his hand just before he winnowed. Azriel stalked to my side, right into the tent where Nesta had now come to her feet. He tucked his wings in tightly as he squeezed through the narrow space, ignoring Nesta's snarl of warning, and knelt at the cot. He ran a scarred hand over the rumpled blankets. "They're still warm." Outside, Cassian was barking orders, the camp rousing. "The Cauldron," I breathed. "The Cauldron was fading away--going somewhere--" Nesta was already moving, sprinting for where we'd heard that voice. Luring Elain out. I knew how it had done it. I'd dreamed of it. Graysen standing on the edge of camp, calling to her, promising her love and healing. We reached the copse of trees at the edge of the camp, just as Rhys appeared out of the night, his blade now sheathed across his back. There was something in his hands. No emotion on his carefully neutral face. Nesta let out a sound that might have been a sob as I realized what he'd found at the edge of the forest. What the Cauldron had left behind in its haste to return to Hybern's war- camp. Or as a mocking gift. Elain's dark blue cloak, still warm from her body. <|title|>Chapter 64 <|startofchapter|>Nesta sat with her head in her hands inside my tent. She did not speak, did not move. Coiled in on herself, clinging to stay whole--that's how she looked. How I felt. Elain--taken to Hybern's army. Nesta had stolen something vital from the Cauldron. And in those moments Nesta had hunted it down for us ... The Cauldron had learned what was vital to her. So the Cauldron had stolen something in return. "We'll get her back," Cassian rasped from where he perched on the rolled arm of the chaise longue across the small sitting area, watching her carefully. Rhys, Amren, and Mor were meeting with the other High Lords, informing them what had been done. Seeing if they knew anything. Had any way of helping. Nesta lowered her hands, lifting her head. Her eyes were red-rimmed, lips thin. "No, you will not." She pointed to the map on the table. "I saw that army. Its size, who is in it. I saw it, and there is no chance of any of you getting into its heart. Even you," she added when Cassian opened his mouth again. "Especially not when you're injured." And what Hybern would do to Elain, might already be doing-- From the shadows near the entrance to the tent, Azriel said, as if in answer to some unspoken debate, "I'm getting her back." Nesta slid her gaze to the shadowsinger. Azriel's hazel eyes glowed golden in the shadows. Nesta said, "Then you will die." Azriel only repeated, rage glazing that stare, "I'm getting her back." With the shadows, he might stand a chance of slipping in. But there were wards to consider, and ancient magic, and the king with those spells and the Cauldron ... For a moment, I saw that set of paints Elain had once bought me with the extra money she'd saved. The red, yellow, and blue I'd savored, used to paint that dresser in our cottage. I had not painted in years at that point, had not dared spend the money on myself ... But Elain had. I stood. Met Azriel's wrathful stare. "I'm going with you," I said. Azriel only nodded. "You'll never get far enough into the camp," Cassian warned. "I'm going to walk right in." And as they narrowed their brows, I shifted myself. Not a glamour, but a true changing of features. "Shit," Cassian breathed when I was done. Nesta rose to her feet. "They might already know she's dead." For it was Ianthe's face, her hair, that I now possessed. It nearly drained what was left of my depleted magic. Anything more ... I might not have enough left to keep her features in place. But there were other ways. Routes. For the rest of what I needed. "I need one of your Siphons," I said to Azriel. The blue was slightly deeper, but at night ... they might not notice the difference. He held out his palm, a round, flat blue stone appearing in it, and chucked it to me. I wrapped my fingers around the warm stone, its power throbbing in my veins like an unearthly heartbeat as I looked to Cassian. "Where is the blacksmith." The camp blacksmith did not ask any questions when I handed over the silver candlesticks from my tent and Azriel's Siphon. When I asked him to craft that circlet. Immediately. A mortal blacksmith might have taken a while--days. But a Fae one ... By the time he finished, Azriel had gone to the camp priestess and retrieved a spare set of her robes. Perhaps not identical to Ianthe's, but close enough. As High Priestess, none would dare look too closely at her. Ask questions. I had just set the circlet atop my hood when Rhys prowled into our tent. Azriel was honing Truth-Teller with relentless focus, Cassian sharpening the weapons I was to fasten beneath the robe--atop the Illyrian leathers. "He'll sense your power," I said to Rhys before he could speak. "I know," Rhys said hoarsely. And I realized--trealized the other High Lords had come up empty. My hands began shaking. I knew the odds. Knew what I'd face in there. I'd seen it in Nesta's mind hours ago. Rhys closed the distance between us, clutching my hands. Gazing at me, and not Ianthe's face, as if he could see the soul beneath. "There are wards around the camp. You can't winnow. You have to walk in--and out. Then you can make the jump back here." I nodded. He brushed a kiss to my brow. "Ianthe sold out your sisters," he said, his voice turning sharp and hard. "It's only fitting that you use her to get Elain back." He gripped the sides of my face, bringing us nose to nose. "Do not get distracted. Do not linger. You are a warrior, and warriors know when to pick their fights." I nodded, our breath mingling. Rhys growled. "They took what is ours. And we do not allow those crimes to go unpunished." His power rippled and swirled around me. "You do not fear," Rhys breathed. "You do not falter. You do not yield. You go in, you get her, and you come out again." I nodded again, holding his stare. "Remember that you are a wolf. And you cannot be caged." He kissed my brow one more time, my blood thrumming and boiling in me, howling to draw blood. I began to buckle on the weapons Cassian had lined up in neat rows on the table, Rhys helping me with the straps and loops, positioning them so that they wouldn't be visible beneath my robe. The only one I couldn't fit was the Illyrian blade--no way to hide it and be able to easily draw it. Cassian gave me an extra dagger to make up for its absence. "You get them in and out again, shadowsinger," Rhys said to Azriel as I walked to the spymaster's side, getting a feel for the weight of the weapons and the flow of the heavy robe. "I don't care how many of them you have to kill to do it. They both come out." Azriel gave a grave, steady nod. "I swear it, High Lord." Formal words, formal titles. I gripped Azriel's scarred hand, the weight of his Siphon pressing on my brow through the hood. We looked to Rhys, to Cassian and Nesta, to Mor--right as she appeared, breathless, between the tent flaps. Her eyes went to me, then the shadowsinger, and flared with shock and fear-- But we were gone. Azriel's dark breeze was different from Rhys's. Colder. Sharper. It cut through the world like a blade, spearing us toward that army camp. Night was still overhead, dawn perhaps two hours away, when he landed us in a thick forest on a hilltop that overlooked the outskirts of the mighty camp. The king had used the same spells that Rhys had put around Velaris and our own forces. Spells to hide it from sight, and dispel people who got too close. We'd landed inside of them, thanks to Nesta's specifics. With a perfect view of the city of soldiers that sprawled away into the night. Campfires burned, as numerous as the stars. Beasts snapped and snarled, yanking on leashes and chains. On and on and on that army went, a squatting terror drinking the life from the earth. Azriel silently faded into blackness--until he was my own shadow and nothing more. I fluffed out the priestess's pale robe, adjusted the circlet atop my head, and began to pick my way down the hill. Into the heart of Hybern's army. <|title|>Chapter 65 <|startofchapter|>The first test would be the most dangerous--and informative. Passing through the guards stationed at the edge of the camp--and learning if they'd heard of Ianthe's demise. Learning what sort of power Ianthe truly wielded here. I kept my features in that beatific, pretty mask she'd always plastered on her face, head held just so, my mating ring turned facedown and put onto my other hand, a few silver bracelets Azriel had borrowed from the camp priestess dangling at my wrists. I let them jangle loudly, as she had, like a cat with a bell on its collar. A pet--I supposed Ianthe was no more than a pet of the king. I couldn't see Azriel, but I could feel him, as if the Siphon parading itself as Ianthe's jewel was a tether. He dwelled in every pocket of shadow, darting ahead and behind. The six guards flanking the camp entrance monitored Ianthe, strutting out of the dark, with unmasked distaste. I steadied my heart, became her, preening and coy, vain and predatory, holy and sensual. They did not stop me as I walked past them and onto the long avenue that cut through the endless camp. Did not look confused or expectant. I didn't dare let my shoulders slump, or even heave a sigh of utter relief. Not as I headed down the broad artery lined by tents and forges, fires and--and things I did not look at, did not even turn toward as the sounds coming out of them charged at me. This place made the Court of Nightmares seem like a human sitting room filled with chaste maidens embroidering pillows. And somewhere in this hell-pit ... Elain. Had the Cauldron presented her to the king? Or was she in some in-between, trapped in whatever dark world the Cauldron occupied? I'd seen the king's tent in Nesta's scrying. It had not seemed as far away as it did now, rising like a gargantuan, spiny beast from the center of the camp. Entrance to it would present another set of obstacles. If we made it that far without being noticed. The time of night worked to our advantage. The soldiers who were awake were either engaged in activities of varying awfulness, or were on guard and wishing they could be. The rest were asleep. It was strange, I realized with each bouncing step and jangle of jewelry toward the heart of camp, to consider that Hybern actually needed rest. I'd somehow assumed they were beyond it--mythic, unending in their strength and rage. But they, too, tired. And ate. And slept. Perhaps not as easily or as much as humans, but, with two hours until dawn, we were lucky. Once the sun chased away the shadows, though ... Once it made some gaps in my costume all too clear ... It was hard to scan the tents we passed, hard to focus on the sounds of the camp while pretending to be someone wholly used to it. I didn't even know if Ianthe had a tent here--if she was allowed near the king whenever she wished. I doubted it--doubted we'd be able to stroll right into his personal tent and find wherever the hell Elain was. A massive bonfire smoldered and crackled near the center of camp, the sounds of revelry reaching us long before we got a good visual. I knew within a few heartbeats that most of the soldiers were not sleeping. They were here. Celebrating. Some danced in wicked circles around the fire, their contorted shapes little more than twisted shadows flinging through the night. Some drank from enormous oak barrels of beer I recognized--right from Tamlin's stores. Some writhed with each other--some merely watched. But through the laughter and singing and music, over the roar of the fire ... Screaming. A shadow gripped my shoulder, reminding me not to run. Ianthe would not run--would not show alarm. My mouth went dry as that scream sounded again. I couldn't bear it--to let it go on, to see what was being done-- Azriel's shadow-hand grasped my own, tugging me closer. His rage rippled off his invisible form. We made a lazy circuit of the revelry, other parts of it becoming clear. The screaming-- It was not Elain. It was not Elain who hung from a rack near a makeshift dais of granite. It was one of the Children of the Blessed, young and slender-- My stomach twisted, threatening to surge up my throat. Two others were chained up beside her. From the way they sagged, the injuries on their naked bodies-- Clare. It was like Clare, what had been done to them. And like Clare, they had been left there to rot, left for the crows surely to arrive at dawn. This one had held out for longer. I couldn't. I couldn't--couldn't leave her there-- But if I lingered too long, they'd see. And drawing attention to myself ... Could I live with it? I'd once killed two innocents to save Tamlin and his people. I'd be as good as killing her if I left her there in favor of saving my sister ... Stranger. She was a stranger-- "He's been looking for you," drawled a hard male voice. I pivoted to find Jurian striding from between two tents, buckling his sword-belt. I glanced at the dais. And as if an invisible hand wiped away the smoke ... There sat the King of Hybern. He lounged in his chair, head propped on a fist, face a mask of vague amusement as he surveyed the revelry, the torture and torment. The adulation of the crowd that occasionally turned to toast or bow to him. I willed my voice to soften, adapted that lilt. "I have been busy with my sisters." Jurian stared at me for a long moment, eyes sliding to the Siphon atop my head. I knew the moment he realized who I was. Those brown eyes flared--barely. "Where is she," was all I breathed. Jurian gave a cocky grin. Not directed at me, but anyone watching us. "You've been lusting after me for weeks now," he purred. "Act like it." My throat constricted. But I laid a hand on his forearm, batting my eyelashes at him as I stepped closer. A bemused snort. "I have trouble believing that's how you won his heart." I tried not to scowl. "Where is she." "Safe. Untouched." My chest caved in at the word. "Not for long," Jurian said. "It gave him a shock when she appeared before the Cauldron. He had her contained. Came here to brood over what to do with her. And how to make you pay for it." I ran a hand up his arm, then rested it over his heart. "Where. Is. She." Jurian leaned in as if he'd kiss me, and brought his mouth to my ear. "Were you smart enough to kill her before you took her skin?" My hands tightened on his jacket. "She got what she deserved." I could feel Jurian's smile against my ear. "She's in his tent. Chained with steel and a little spell from his favorite book." Shit. Shit. Perhaps I should have gotten Helion, who could break almost any-- Jurian caught my chin between his thumb and forefinger. "Come to my tent with me, Ianthe. Let me see what that pretty mouth can do." It was an effort not to recoil, but I let Jurian put a hand on my lower back. He chuckled. "Seems like you've already got some steel in you. No need for mine." I gave him a pretty, sunshine smile. "What of the girl on the rack?" Darkness flickered in those eyes. "There have been many before her, and many will come after." "I can't leave her here," I said through my teeth. Jurian led me into the labyrinth of tents, heading for that inner circle. "Your sister or her--you won't be able to take two out." "Get her to me, and I'll make it happen." Jurian muttered, "Say you would like to pray before the Cauldron before we retire." I blinked, and realized there were guards--guards and that giant, bone-colored tent ahead of us. I clasped my hands before me and said to Jurian, "Before we ... retire, I should like to pray before the great Cauldron. To give thanks for today's bounty." Jurian glowered--a man ready for rutting who had been delayed. "Make it quick," he said, jerking his chin to the guards on either side of the tent flaps. I caught the look he gave them--male to male. They didn't bother to hide their leering as I passed. And since I was Janthe ... I gave them each a sultry smile, sizing them up for conquest of a different kind than the one they'd come to Prythian to do. The one on the right's answering grin told me he was mine for the taking. Later, I willed my eyes to say. When I'm done with the human. He adjusted his belt a bit as I slipped into the tent. Dim--cold. Like the sky before dawn, that's how the tent felt. No crackling braziers, no faelights. And in the center of the massive tent ... a darkness that devoured the light. The Cauldron. The hair on my arms rose. Jurian whispered in my ear, "You have five minutes to get her out. Take her to the western edge--there's a cliff overlooking the river. I'll meet you there." I blinked at him. Jurian's grin was a slash of white in the gloom. "If you hear screaming, don't panic." His diversion. He smirked toward the shadows. "I hope you can carry three, shadowsinger." Azriel did not confirm that he was there, that he'd heard. Jurian studied me for a heartbeat longer. "Save a dagger for your own heart. If they catch you alive, the king will--" He shook his head. "Don't let them catch you alive." Then he was gone. Azriel emerged from the deep shadows in the corner of the tent a heartbeat later. He jerked his chin toward the curtains in the back. I began intoning one of Ianthe's many prayers, a pretty speech I'd heard her say a thousand times at the Spring Court. We rushed across the rugs, dodging tables and furniture. I chanted her prayers all the while. Azriel slid back the curtain-- Elain was in her nightgown. Gagged, wrists wrapped in steel that glowed violet. Her eyes went wide as she saw us-- Azriel and me-- I shifted my face back into my own, raising a hand to my lips as Azriel knelt before her. I kept up my litany of praying, beseeching the Cauldron to make my womb fruitful, on and on Azriel gently removed the gag from her mouth. "Are you hurt?" She shook her head, devouring the sight of him as if not quite believing it. "You came for me." The shadowsinger only inclined his head. "Hurry," I whispered, then resumed my prayer. We had until it ran out. Azriel's Siphons flared, the one atop my head warming. The magic did nothing when it came into contact with those bonds. Nothing. Only a few more verses of my prayer left to chant. Her wrists and ankles were bound. She couldn't run out of here with them on. I reached a hand toward her, scrambling for a thread of Helion's power to unravel the king's spell on the chains. But my magic was still depleted, in shambles-- "We don't have time," Azriel murmured. "He's coming." The screaming and shouting began. Azriel scooped up Elain, looping her bound arms around his neck. "Hold tight," he ordered her, "and don't make a sound." Barking and baying rent the night. I drew off the robe, and pocketed Azriel's Siphon before palming two knives. "Out the back?" A nod. "Get ready to run." My heart thundered. Elain glanced between us, but did not tremble. Did not cringe. "Run, and don't stop," he told me. "We sprint for the western edge--the cliff." "If Jurian's not there with the girl in ttme--" "Then you will go. I'll get her." I blew out a breath, steadying myself. The barking and growling grew louder--closer. "Now," Azriel hissed, and we ran. His Siphons blazed, and the canvas of the back of the tent melted into nothing. We bolted through it before the guards nearby noticed. They didn't react to us. Only peered at the hole. Azriel had made us invisible--shadow-bound. We sprinted between tents, feet flying over the grass and dirt. "Hurry," he whispered. "The shadows won't last long." For in the east, behind us ... the sun was beginning to rise. A piercing howl split the dying night. And I knew they'd realized what we'd done. That we were here. And even if they couldn't see us ... the King of Hybern's hounds could scent us. "Faster," Azriel snarled. The earth shuddered behind us. I didn't dare look behind. We neared a rack of weapons. I sheathed my knives, freeing my hands as we hurtled past and I snatched a bow and quiver of arrows from their stand. Ash arrows. The arrows clacked as I slung the quiver over a shoulder. As I nocked an arrow into place. Azriel cut right, swerving around a tent. And with the angle ... I turned and fired. The nearest hound--it was not a hound, I realized as the arrow spiraled for its head. But some cousin of the naga--some monstrous, scaled thing that thundered on all fours, serpentine face snarling and full of bone-shredding white teeth-- My arrow went right through its throat. It went down, and we rounded the tent, hurtling for that still-dim western horizon. I nocked another arrow. Three others. Three more behind us, gaining with every clawed step-- I could feel them around us--Hybern commanders, racing along with the hounds, tracking the beasts because they still could not see us. That arrow I'd fired had told them enough about the distance. But the moment the hounds caught up ... those commanders would appear. Kill us or drag us away. Row after row of tents, slowly awakening at the ruckus in the center of the camp. The air rippled, and I looked up to see the rain of ash arrows unleashed from behind, so many they were a blind attempt to hit any target-- Azriel's blue shield shuddered at the impact, but held. Yet our shadows shivered and faded. The hounds closed in, two breaking away--to cut to the side. To herd us. For that was a cliff at the other edge of the camp. A cliff with a very, very long drop, and unforgiving river below. And standing at its end, huddled in a dark cloak ... That was the girl. Jurian had left her there--for us. Where he'd gone ... I saw no sign of him. But behind us, filling the air as if he'd used magic to do so ... The king spoke. "What intrepid thieves," he drawled, the words everywhere and nowhere. "How shall I punish you?" I had no doubt the wards ended just beyond the cliff's edge. It was confirmed by the snarls of the hounds, who seemed to know that their prey would escape in less than a hundred yards. If we could jump far enough to be clear of them. "Get her out, Azriel," I begged him, panting. "I'll get the other." "We're all" "That's an order." A clean shot, an unimpeded path right to that cliff's edge, and to freedom beyond-- "You need to--" My words were cut off. I felt the impact before the pain. The searing, burning pain that erupted through my shoulder. An ash arrow-- My feet snagged beneath me, blood spraying, and I hit the rocky ground so hard my bones groaned. Azriel swore, but with Elain in his arms, fighting-- The hounds were there in a second. I fired an arrow at one, my shoulder screaming with the movement. The hound fell, clearing the view behind. Revealing the king striding down the line of tents, unhurried and assured of our capture, a bow dangling from his hand. The bow that had delivered the arrow now piercing through my body. "Torturing you would be so dull," the king mused, voice still magnified. "At least, the traditional sort of torture." Every step was slow, intentional. "How Rhysand shall rage. How he shall panic. His mate, at last come to see me." Before I could warn Azriel to hurry, the other two hounds were on me. One leaped right for me. I lifted my bow to intercept its jaws. The hound snapped it in two, hurling the wood away. I grabbed for a knife, just as the second one leaped-- A roar deafened me, made my head ring. Just as one of the hounds was thrown off me. I knew that roar, knew-- A golden-furred beast with curling horns tore into the hounds. "Tamlin," I got out, but his green eyes narrowed. Run, he seemed to say. That was who had been running alongside us. Trying to find us. He ripped and shredded, the hounds launching themselves wholly on him. The king paused, and though he remained far off, I could clearly make out the surprise slackening his face. Now. I had to go now-- I scrambled to my feet, whipping the arrow out with a swallowed scream. Azriel was already there, no more than a few heartbeats having passed-- Azriel gripped me by the collar, and a web of blue light fastened itself at my shoulder. Holding the blood in, a bandage until a healer-- "You need to fly," he panted. Six more hounds closed in. Tamlin still fought the others, gaining ground--holding the line. "We need to get airborne," Azriel said, one eye now on the king as he resumed his mockingly slow approach. "Can you make it?" The young woman was still standing at the edge of the cliff. Watching us with wide eyes, black hair whipping over her face. I'd never made a running takeoff before. I'd barely been able to keep in the skies. Even if Azriel took the girl in his free arm ... I didn't let myself consider the alternative. I would get airborne. Only long enough to sail over that cliff, and winnow out when we'd passed the wards' edge. Tamlin let out a yelp of what sounded like pain, followed by another earth-shuddering roar. The rest of the hounds had reached him. He did not falter, did not yield an inch to them-- I summoned the wings. The drag and weight of them ... Even with the Siphon-bandage, pain razed my senses at the tug on my muscles. I panted through my gritted teeth as Azriel plunged ahead, wings beginning to flap. Not enough space on the jutting ledge for us to do this side by side. I gobbled down details of his takeoff, the beating of his wings, the shifting angle of his body. "Grab onto him!" Elain ordered the wide-eyed human girl as Azriel thundered toward her. The girl looked like a doe about to be run down by a wolf. The girl did not open her arms as they neared. Elain screamed at her, "If you want to live, do it now!" The girl dropped her cloak, opened her arms wide. Her black hair streamed behind Azriel, catching amongst his wings as he practically tackled her into the sky. But I saw, even as I ran, Elain's pale hands lurch--gripping the girl by her neck, holding her as tightly as she could. And just in time. One of the hounds broke free from Tamlin in a mighty leap. I ducked, bracing for impact. But it was not aiming for me. Two bounding strides down the stone ledge and another leap-- Azriel's roar echoed off the rocks as the hound slammed into him, dragging those shredding talons down his spine, his wings-- The girl screamed, but Elain moved. As Azriel battled to keep them airborne, keep his grip on them, my sister sent a fierce kick into the beast's face. Its eye. Another. Another. It bellowed, and Elain slammed her bare, muddy foot into its face again. The blow struck home. With a yelp of pain, it released its claws--and plunged into the ravine. So fast. It happened so fast. And blood--blood sprayed from his back, his wings-- But Azriel remained in the air. Blue light splayed over the wounds. Staunching the blood, stabilizing his wings. I was still running for the cliff as he whirled, revealing a pain-bleached face, while he gripped the two women tightly. But he beheld what charged after me. The sprint ahead. And for the first time since I had known him, there was terror in Azriel's eyes as he watched me make that run. I flapped my wings, an updraft hauling my feet up, then crashing them down onto the rock. I stumbled, but kept running, kept flapping, back screaming-- Another one of the hounds broke past Tamlin's guard. Came barreling down that narrow stretch of rock, claws gouging the stone beneath. I could have sworn the king laughed from behind. "Faster!" Azriel roared, blood oozing with each wing beat. I could see the dawn through the shreds in the membrane. "Push up!" The stone echoed with the thunderous steps of the hound at my heels. The end of the rock loomed. Freefall lay beyond. And I knew the hound would leap with me. The king would have it retrieve me by any means necessary, even if my body was broken on the river far, far below. This high, I would splatter like an egg dropped from a tower. And he'd keep whatever was left of me, as Jurian had been kept, alive and aware. "Hold them high!" I stretched my wings as far as they would go. Thirty steps between me and the edge. "Legs up!" Twenty steps. The sun broke over the eastern horizon, gilding Azriel's bloody armor with gold. The king fired another arrow--two. One for me, one soaring for Elain's exposed back. Azriel slammed both away with a blue shield. I didn't look to see if that shield extended to Tamlin. Ten steps. I beat my wings, muscles screaming, blood sliding past even that Siphon's bandage. Beat them as I sent a wave of wind rising up beneath me, air filling the flexible membrane, even as the bone and sinews strained to snapping. My feet lifted from the ground. Then hit again. I pushed with the wind, flapping like hell. The hound gained on me. Five steps. I knew--I knew that whatever force had compelled me to learn to fly ... Somehow, it had known. That this moment was coming. All of it--all of it, for this moment. And with barely three steps to the edge of that cliff... A warm wind, kissed with lilac and new grass, blasted up from beneath me. A wind of--spring. Lifting me, filling my wings. My feet rose. And rose. And rose. The hound leaped after me. "Bank!" I threw my body sideways, wings swinging me wide. The rising dawn and drop and sky tilted and spun before I evened out. I looked behind to see that naga-hound snap at where my heels had been. And then plunge down, down, down into the ravine and river below. The king fired again, the arrow tipped with glimmering amethyst power. Azriel's shield held--barely. Whatever magic the king had wrapped around it--Azriel grunted in pain. But he snarled, "Fly," and I veered toward the way I'd come, back trembling with the effort to keep my body upright. Azriel turned, the girl moaning in terror as he lost a few feet to the sky--before he leveled out and soared beside me. The king barked a command, and a barrage of arrows arced up from the camp--trained down upon us. Azriel's shield buckled, but held solid. I flapped my wings, back shrieking. I pressed a hand to my wound, just as the wards pushed against me. Pushed as if they tried and tried to contain me, to hold Azriel where he now flapped like hell against them, blood spraying from those wounded wings, sliding down his shredded back-- I unleashed a flare of Helion's white light. Burning, singeing, melting. A hole ripped through the wards. Barely wide enough. We didn't hesitate as we sailed through, as I gasped for breath. But I looked back. Just once. Tamlin was surrounded by the hounds. Bleeding, panting, still in that beast form. The king was perhaps thirty feet away, livid--utterly livid as he beheld the hole I'd again ripped through his wards. Tamlin made the most of his distraction. He did not glance toward us as he made a break for the cliff edge. He leaped far--far and wide. Farther than any beast or Fae should be able to. That wind he'd sent my way now bolstering him, guiding him toward that hole we'd swept through. Tamlin cleared it and winnowed away, still not looking at me as I gripped Azriel's hand and we vanished as well. Azriel's power gave out on the outskirts of our camp. The girl, despite the burns and lashings on her moon-white skin, was able to walk. The gray light of morning had broken over the world, mist clinging to our ankles as we headed into that camp, Azriel still cradling Elain to his chest. He dripped blood behind him the entire time--a trickle compared to the torrent that should be leaking out. Contained only by the patches of power he'd slapped on it. Help--he needed a healer immediately. We both did. I pressed a hand against the wound in my shoulder to keep the bleeding minimal. The girl went so far as to even offer to use her lingering scraps of clothing to bind it. I didn't have the breath to explain that I was Fae, and there had been ash in my skin. I needed to see a healer before it set and sealed in any splinters. So I just asked for her name. Briar, she said, her voice raw from screaming. Her name was Briar. She did not seem to mind the mud that squelched under her feet and splattered her bare shins. She only gazed at the tents, the soldiers who stumbled out. One saw Azriel and shouted for a healer to hurry for the spymaster's tent. Rhys winnowed into our path before we'd made it past the first line of tents. His eyes went right to Azriel's wings, then the wound in my shoulder, the paleness of my face. To Elain, then Briar. "I couldn't leave her," I said, surprised to find my own voice raw. Running steps approached, and then Nesta rounded a tent, skidding to a halt in the mud. She let out a sob at the sight of Elain, still in Azriel's arms. I'd never heard a sound like that from her. Not once. She isn't hurt, I said to her, into that chamber in her mind. Because words ... I couldn't form them. Nesta broke into another sprint. I reached for Rhysand, his face taut as he stalked for us-- But Nesta got there first. I swallowed my shout of pain as Nesta's arms went around my neck and she embraced me so hard it snatched my breath away. Her body shook--shook as she sobbed and said over and over and over, "Thank you." Rhys lunged for Azriel, taking Elain from him and gently setting my sister down. Azriel rasped, swaying on his feet, "We need Helion to get these chains off her." Yet Elain didn't seem to notice them as she rose up on her toes and kissed the shadowsinger's cheek. And then walked to me and Nesta, who pulled back long enough to survey Elain's clean face, her clear eyes. "We need to get you to Thesan," Rhys said to Azriel. "Right now." Before I could turn back, Elain threw her arms around me. I did not remember when I began to cry as I felt those slender arms hold me, tight as steel. I did not remember the healer who patched me up, or how Rhys bathed me. How I told him what happened with Jurian, and Tamlin, Nesta hovering around Elain as Helion came to remove her chains, cursing the king's handiwork, even as he admired its quality. But I did remember lying down on the bearskin rug once it was done. How I felt Elain's slim body settle next to mine and curl into my side, careful not to touch the bandaged wound in my shoulder. I had not realized how cold I was until her warmth seeped into me. A moment later, another warm body nestled on my left. Nesta's scent drifted over me, fire and steel and unbending will. Distantly, I heard Rhys usher everyone out--to join him in checking on Azriel, now under Thesan's care. I didn't know how long my sisters and I lay there together, just like we had once shared that carved bed in that dilapidated cottage. Then--back then, we had kicked and twisted and fought for any bit of space, any breathing room. But that morning, as the sun rose over the world, we held tight. And did not let go. <|title|>Chapter 66 <|startofchapter|>Kallias and his army arrived by noon. It was only the sound of it that woke me from where my sisters and I dozed on the floor. That, and a thought that clanged through me. Tamlin. His actions would cover Jurian's betrayal. I had no doubt Tamlin hadn't gone back to Hybern's army after the meeting to betray us--but to play spy. Though after last night ... it was unlikely he'd get close to Hybern again. Not when the king himself had witnessed everything. I didn't know what to make of it. That he'd saved me--that he'd given up his deception to do so. Where had he gone to when he'd winnowed? We hadn't heard anything about the Spring Court forces. And that wind he'd sent ... I'd never seen him use such a power. The Nephelle Philosophy indeed. The weakness that had transformed into a strength hadn't been my wings, my flying. But Tamlin. If he hadn't interfered ... I didn't let myself consider. Elain and Nesta were still dozing on the bearskin rug when I eased out from their tangle of limbs. Washed my face in the copper basin set near my bed. A glimpse in the mirror above it revealed I'd seen better days. Weeks. Months. I peeled back the neck of my white shirt to frown at the wound bandaged at my shoulder. I winced, rotating the joint-- marveling at how much it had already healed. My back, however ... Aching pain jolted and rippled all along it. In my abdomen, too. Muscles I'd pushed to the breaking point to get airborne. Frowning at the mirror, I braided my hair and shrugged on my jacket, hissing at the movement in my shoulder. Another day or two, and the pain might be minimal enough to wield a sword. Maybe. I prayed Azriel would be in better shape. If Thesan himself had been healing him, perhaps he was. If we were lucky. I didn't know how Azriel had managed to stay aloft--stay conscious during those minutes in the sky. I didn't let myself think about how and when and why he'd learned to manage pain like that. I quietly asked the nearest camp-mother to dig up some platters of food for my sisters. Elain was likely starving, and I doubted Nesta had eaten anything during the hours we'd been gone. The winged matron only asked if I needed anything, and when I told her I was fine, she just clicked her tongue and said she'd make sure food found its way to me, too. I didn't have the nerve to request she find some of Amren's preferred food as well. Even if I had no doubt Amren would need it--after her ... activities with Varian last night. Unless he'd-- I didn't let myself think about that as I aimed for her tent. We'd found Hybern's army. And having seen it last night ... I'd offer Amren any help I could in decoding that spell the Suriel had pointed her toward. Anything, if it meant stopping the Cauldron. And when we'd picked our final battlefield ... then, only then, would I unleash Bryaxis upon Hybern. I was nearly to her tent, offering grim smiles in exchange for the nods and wary glances the Illyrian warriors gave me, when I spied the commotion just near the edge of camp. A few extra steps had me staring out across a thin demarcation line of grass and mud--to the Winter Court camp now nearly constructed in its full splendor. Kallias's army was still winnowing in supplies and units of warriors, his court made up of High Fae with either his snow- white hair or hair of blackest night, skin ranging from moon pale to rich brown. The lesser fae ... he'd brought more lesser faeries than any of us, if you excluded the Illyrians. It was an effort not to gawk as I lingered at the edge of where their camp began. Long-limbed creatures like shards of ice given form stalked past, tall enough to plant the cobalt-and-silver banners atop various tents; wagons were hauled by sure-footed reindeer and lumbering white bears in ornate armor, some so keenly aware when they ambled by that I wouldn't have been surprised if they could talk. White foxes scuttled about underfoot, bearing what looked to be messages strapped to their little embroidered vests. Our Illyrian army was brutal, basic--few frills and sheer rank reigned. Kallias's army--or, I suppose, the army that Viviane had held together during Amarantha's reign--was a complex, beautiful, teeming thing. Orderly, and yet thrumming with life. Everyone had a purpose, everyone seemed keen on doing it efficiently and proudly. I spotted Mor walking with Viviane and a stunningly beautiful young woman who looked like either Viviane's twin or sister. Viviane was beaming, Mor perhaps more subdued for once, and as she twisted-- My brows rose. The human girl--Briar--was with them. Now tucked beneath Viviane's arm, face still bruised and swollen in spots, but ... smiling timidly at the Winter Court ladies. Viviane began to lead Briar away, chattering merrily, and Mor and Viviane's possible-sister lingered to watch them. Mor said something to the stranger that made her smile--well, slightly. It was a restrained smile, and it faded quickly. Especially as a High Fae soldier strode past, grinned at her with some teasing remark, and then continued on. Mor watched the female's face carefully--and swiftly looked away as she turned back to her, clapped Mor on the shoulder, and strode off after her possible-sister and Briar. I remembered our argument the moment Mor turned toward me. Remembered the words we'd left unsaid, the ones I probably shouldn't have spoken. Mor flipped her hair over a shoulder and headed right for me. I spoke before she could get the first word out, "You gave Briar over to them?" We fell into step back toward our own camp. "Az explained the state you found her in. I didn't think being exposed to battle-ready Illyrians would do much to soothe her." "And the Winter Court army is much better?" "They've got fuzzy animals." I snorted, shaking my head. Those enormous bears were indeed fuzzy--if you ignored the claws and teeth. Mor glanced sidelong at me. "You did a very brave thing in saving Briar." "Anyone would have done it." "No," she said, adjusting her tight Illyrian jacket. "I'm not sure ... I'm not sure even I would have tried to get her. If I would have deemed the risk worth it. I've made enough calls like that where it went badly that I ..." She shook her head. I swallowed. "How's Azriel?" "Alive. His back is fine. But Thesan hasn't healed many Illyrian wings, so the healing is ... slow. Different from repairing Peregryn wings, apparently. Rhys sent for Madja." The healer in Velaris. "She'll be here either later today or tomorrow to work on him." "Will he--fly again?" "Considering Cassian's wings were in worse shape, I'd say yes. But ... perhaps not in battle. Not anytime soon." My stomach tightened. "He won't be happy about that." "None of us are." To lose Azriel on the field ... Mor seemed to read what I was thinking and said, "Better than being dead." She dragged a hand through her golden hair. "It would have been so easy--for things to have gone wrong last night. And when I saw you two vanish ... I had this thought, this terror, that I might not get to see you again. To make things right." "I said things I didn't really mean to--" "We both did." She led me up to the tree line at the border of both our camps, and I knew from that alone ... I knew she was about to tell me something she didn't wish anyone overhearing. Something worth delaying my meeting with Amren for a little while. She leaned against a towering oak, foot tap-tapping on the ground. "No more lies between us." Guilt tugged on my gut. "Yes," I said. "I--I'm sorry about deceiving you. I just ... I made a mistake. And I'm sorry." Mor rubbed her face. "You were right about me, though. You were ..." Her hand shook as she lowered it. She gnawed on her lip, throat bobbing. Her eyes at last met mine--bright and fearful and anguished. Her voice broke as she said, "I don't love Azriel." I remained perfectly still. Listening. "No, that's not true, either. I--I do love him. As my family. And sometimes I wonder if it can be ... more, but ... I do not love him. Not the way he--he feels for me." The last words were a trembling whisper. "Have you ever loved him? That way?" "No." She wrapped her arms around herself. "No. I don't ... You see ..." I'd never seen her at such a loss for words. She closed her eyes, fingers digging into her skin. "I can't love him like that." "Why?" "Because I prefer females." For a heartbeat, only silence rippled through me. "But-- you sleep with males. You slept with Helion ..." And had looked terrible the next day. Tortured and not at all sated. Not just because of Azriel, but ... because it wasn't what she wanted. "I do find pleasure in them. In both." Her hands were shaking so fiercely that she gripped herself even tighter. "But I've known, since I was little more than a child, that I prefer females. That I'm ... attracted to them more over males. That I connect with them, care for them more on that soul-deep level. But at the Hewn City ... All they care about is breeding their bloodlines, making alliances through marriage. Someone like me ... If I were to marry where my heart desired, there would be no offspring. My father's bloodline would have ended with me. I knew it--knew that I could never tell them. Ever. People like me ... we're reviled by them. Considered selfish, for not being able to pass on the bloodline. So I never breathed a word of it. And then ... then my father betrothed me to Eris, and ... And it wasn't just the prospect of marriage to him that scared me. No, I knew I could survive his brutality, his cruelty and coldness. I was--I am stronger than him. It was ... It was the idea of being bred like a prize mare, of being forced to give up that one part of me ..." Her mouth wobbled, and I reached for her hand, prying it off her arm. I squeezed gently as tears began sliding down her flushed face. "I slept with Cassian because I knew it would mean little to him, too. Because I knew doing it would buy me a shot at freedom. If I had told my parents that I preferred females ... You've met my father. He and Beron would have tied me to that marriage bed for Eris. Literally. But sullied ... I knew my shot at freedom lay there. And I saw how Azriel looked at me ... knew how he felt. And if I'd chosen him ..." She shook her head. "It wouldn't have been fair to him. So I slept with Cassian, and Azriel thought I deemed him unsuitable, and then everything happened and ..." Her fingers tightened on mine. "After Azriel found me with that note nailed to my womb ... I tried to explain. But he started to confess what he felt, and I panicked, and ... and to get him to stop, to keep him from saying he loved me, I just turned and left, and ... and I couldn't face explaining it after that. To Az, to the others." She loosed a shuddering breath. "I sleep with males in part because I enjoy it, but ... also to keep people from looking too closely." "Rhys wouldn't care--I don't think anyone in Velaris would." A nod. "Velaris is ... a haven for people like me. Rita's ... the owner is like me. A lot of us go there--without anyone really ever picking up on it." No wonder she practically lived at the pleasure hall. "But this part of me ..." Mor wiped at her tears with her free hand. "It didn't matter as much, when my family disowned me. When they called me a whore and a piece of trash. When they hurt me. Because those things ... they weren't part of me. Weren't true, and weren't ... intrinsic. They couldn't break me because ... because they never touched that innermost part of me. They never even guessed. But I hid it ... I've hidden it because ..." She tilted back her head, looking skyward. "Because I live in terror of my family finding out--and shaming me, hurting me about this one thing that has remained wholly mine. This one part of me. I won't let them ... won't let them destroy it. Or try to. So I've rarely ... During the War, I finally took my first--female lover." She was quiet for a long moment, blinking away tears. "It was Nephelle and her lover--now her wife, I suppose--who made me dare to try. They made me so jealous. Not of them personally, but just ... of what they had. Their openness. That they lived in a place, with a people who thought nothing of it. But with the War, with the traveling across the world ... No one from home was with me for months at a time. It was safe, for once. And one of the human queens ..." The friends she had so passionately mentioned, had known so intimately. "Her name was Andromache. And she was ... so beautiful. And kind. And I loved her ... so much." Human. Andromache had been human. My eyes burned. "But she was human. And a queen--who needed to continue her royal line, especially during such a tumultuous time. So I left--went home after the last battle. And when I realized what a mistake it was, that I didn't care if I only had sixty more years with her ... The wall went up that day." A small sob came out of her. "And I could not ... I was not allowed or able to cross it. I tried. For three years, I tried over and over. And by the time I managed to find a hole to cross ... She had married. A man. And had an infant daughter--with another on the way. I didn't set foot inside her castle. Didn't even try to see her. I just turned around and went home." "I'm so sorry," I breathed, my voice breaking. "She bore five children. And died an old woman, safe in her bed. And I saw her spirit again--in that golden queen. Her descendant." Mor closed her eyes, breath rippling past her shaking lips. "For a while, I mourned her. Both while she lived and after she died. For a few decades, there were no lovers--of any kind. But then ... one day I woke up, and I wanted ... I don't know what I wanted. The opposite of her. I found them--female, male. A few lovers over these past centuries, the females always secret--and I think that's why it wore on them, why they always ended it. I could never be ... open about it. Never be seen with them. And as for the males ... it never went as deep. The bond, I mean. Even if I did still crave--you know, every now and then." A huff of a laugh that I echoed. "But all of them ... It wasn't the same as Andromache. It doesn't feel the same--in here," she breathed, putting a hand over her heart. "And the male lovers I took ... it became a way to keep Azriel from wondering why--why I wouldn't notice him. Make that move. You see--you see how marvelous he is. How special. But if I slept with him, even once, just to try it, to make sure ... I think after all this time, he'd think it was a culmination--a happy ending. And ... I think it might shatter him if I revealed afterward that ... I'm not sure I can give my entire heart to him that way. And ... and I love him enough to want him to find someone who can truly love him like he deserves. And I love myself ... I love myself enough to not want to settle until I find that person, too." A shrug. "If I can even work up the courage to tell the world first. My gift is truth--and yet I have been living a lie my entire existence." I squeezed her hand once more. "You'll tell them when you're ready. And I'll stand by you no matter what. Until then ... Your secret is safe. I won't tell anyone--even Rhys." "Thank you," she breathed. I shook my head. "No--thank you for telling me. Pm honored." "I wanted to tell you; I realized I wanted to tell you the moment you and Azriel winnowed to Hybern's camp. And the thought of not being able to tell you ..." Her fingers tightened around mine. "I promised the Mother that if you made it back safely, I would tell you." "It seemed she was happy to take the bargain," I said with a smile. Mor wiped at her face and grinned. It faded almost instantly. "You must think I'm horrible for stringing along Azriel--and Cassian." I considered. "No. No, I don't." So many things--so many things now made sense. How Mor had looked away from the heat in Azriel's eyes. How she'd avoided that sort of romantic intimacy, but had been fine to defend him if she felt his physical or emotional well-being was at stake. Azriel loved her, of that I had no doubt. But Mor ... I'd been blind not to see. Not to realize that there was a damn good reason why five hundred years had passed and Mor had not accepted what Azriel so clearly offered to her. "Do you think Azriel suspects?" I asked. Mor drew her hand from mine and paced a few steps. "Maybe. I don't know. He's too observant not to, but ... I think it confuses him whenever I take a male home." "So the thing with Helion ... Why?" "He wanted a distraction from his own problems, and I..." She sighed. "Whenever Azriel makes his feelings clear, like he did with Eris ... It's stupid, I know. It's so stupid and cruel that I do this, but ... I slept with Helion just to remind Azriel ... Gods, I can't even say it. It sounds even worse saying it." "To remind him that you're not interested." "I should tell him. I need to tell him. Mother above, after last night, I should. But ..." She twisted her mass of golden hair over a shoulder. "It's gone on for so long. So long. Pm petrified to face him--to tell him he's spent five hundred years pining for someone and something that won't ever exist. The potential fallout ... I like things the way they are. Even if I can't ... can't really be me, I ... things are good enough." "I don't think you should settle for 'good enough,' " I said quietly. "But I understand. And, again ... when you decide the time is right, whether it's tomorrow or in another five hundred years ... I'll have your back." She blinked away tears again. I turned toward the camp, and a faint smile bloomed on my mouth. "What?" she asked, coming to my side. "I was just thinking," I said, smile growing, "that whenever you're ready ... I was thinking about how much fun I'm going to have playing matchmaker for you." Mor's answering grin was brighter than the entirety of the Day Court. Amren had secluded herself in a tent, and would not let anyone in. Not me, or Varian, or Rhysand. I certainly tried, hissing as I pushed against her wards, but even Helion's magic could not break them. And no matter how I demanded and coaxed and pleaded, she did not answer. Whatever the Suriel had told me to suggest to her about the Book ... she'd deemed it more vital, it seemed, than even why I'd come to speak to her: to join me in retrieving Bryaxis. I could likely do it without her since she'd already disabled the wards to contain Bryaxis, but ... Amren's presence would be ... welcome. On my end, at least. Perhaps it made me a coward, but facing Bryaxis on my own, to bind it into a slightly more tangible body and summon it here at last to smash through Hybern's army ... Amren would be better--at the talking, the ordering. But since I wasn't about to start shouting about my plans in the middle of that camp ... I cursed Amren soundly and stormed back to my war-tent. Only to find that my plans were to be upended anyway. For even if I brought Bryaxis to Hybern's army ... That army was no longer where it was supposed to be. Standing beside the enormous worktable in the war-tent, every side flanked with High Lords and their commanders, I crossed my arms as Helion slid an unnerving number of figures across the lower half of Prythian's map. "My scouts say Hybern is on the move as of this afternoon." Azriel, perched on a stool, his wings and back heavily bandaged and face still grayish with blood loss, nodded once. "My spies say the same." His voice was still hoarse from screaming. Helion's blazing amber eyes narrowed. "He shifted directions, though. He'd planned to move that army north-- drive us back that way. Now he marches due east." Rhys braced his hands on the table, his sable hair sliding forward as he studied the map. "So he's now heading straight across the island--to what end? He would have been better off sailing around. And I doubt he's changed his mind about meeting us in battle. Even with Tamlin now revealed as an enemy." They'd all been quietly shocked, some relieved, to hear it. Though we'd had no whisper of whether Tamlin would be now marching his small force to us. And nothing from Beron, either. Tarquin frowned. "Losing Tamlin won't cost him many troops, but Hybern could be going to meet another ally on the eastern coast--to rendezvous with the army of those human queens from the continent." Azriel shook his head, wincing at the movement and what it surely did to his back. "He sent the queens back to their homes --and there they remain, their armies not even raised. He'll wait to wield that host until he arrives on the continent." Once he was done annihilating us. And if we failed tomorrow ... would there be anyone at all to challenge Hybern on the continent? Especially once those queens rallied their human armies to his banner-- "Perhaps he's leading us on another chase," Kallias mused with a frown, Viviane peering at the map beside him. "Not Hybern's style," Mor said. "He doesn't establish patterns--he knows we're onto his first method of stretching us thin. Now he'll try another way." As she spoke, Keir--standing with two silent Darkbringer captains--studied her closely. I braced myself for any sort of sneer, but the male merely resumed examining the map. These meetings had been the only place where she'd bothered to acknowledge her father's role in this war--and even then, even now, she barely glanced his way. But it was better than outright hostility, though I had no doubt Mor was wise enough not to lay into Keir when we still needed his Darkbringers. Especially after Keir's legion had suffered so many losses at that second battle. Whether Keir was furious about those casualties, he had not let on--neither had any of his soldiers, who did not speak with anyone outside their own ranks beyond what was necessary. Silence, I supposed, was far preferable. And Keir's sense of self- preservation no doubt kept his mouth shut in these meetings-- and bade him take whatever orders were sent his way. "Hybern is delaying the conflict," Helion murmured. "Why?" I glanced over at Nesta, sitting with Elain by the faelight braziers. "He still doesn't have the missing piece. Of the Cauldron's power." Rhys angled his head, studying the map, then my sisters. "Cassian." He pointed to the massive river snaking inland through the Spring Court. "If we were to cut south from where we are now--to head right down to the human lands ... would you cross that river, or go west far enough to avoid it?" Cassian lifted a brow. Gone was yesterday's pallid face and pain. A small mercy. On the opposite side of the table, Lord Devlon seemed inclined to open his mouth to give his opinion. Unlike Keir, the Illyrian commander had no such qualms about making his disdain for us known. Especially in regard to Cassian's command. But before Devlon could shove his way in, Cassian said, "A river crossing like that would be time-consuming and dangerous. The river's too wide. Even with winnowing, we'd have to construct boats or bridges to get across. And an army this size ... We'd have to go west, then cut south--" As the words faded, Cassian's face paled. And I looked at where Hybern's army was now marching eastward, below that mighty river. From where we were now-- "He wanted us exhausting ourselves on winnowing armies around," Helion said, picking up the thread of Cassian's thought. "On fighting those battles. So that when it counted, we would not have the strength to winnow past that river. We'd have to go on foot--and take the long way around to avoid the crossing." Tarquin swore now. "So he could march south, knowing we're days behind. And enter the human lands with no resistance." "He could have done that from the start," Kallias countered. My knees began to shake. "Why now?" It was Nesta who said from her seat across the room beside the faelight brazier, "Because we insulted him. Me--and my sisters." All eyes went to us. Elain put a hand on her throat. She breathed, "He's going to march on the human lands--butcher them. To spite us?" "I killed his priestess," I murmured. "You took from his Cauldron," I said to Nesta. "And you ..." I examined Elain. "Stealing you back was the final insult." Kallias said, "Only a madman would wield the might of his army just to get revenge on three women." Helion snorted. "You forget that some of us fought in the War. We know firsthand how unhinged he can be. And that something like this would be exactly his style." I caught Rhys's eye. What do we do? Rhys's thumb brushed down the back of my hand. "He knows we'll come." "I'd say he's assuming quite a lot about how much we care for humans," Helion said. Keir looked inclined to agree, but wisely remained silent. Rhys shrugged. "He'll have seen our prioritizing of Elain's safety as proof that the Archeron sisters hold sway here. He thinks they'll convince us to haul our asses down there, likely to a battlefield with few advantages, and be annihilated." "So we're not going to?" Tarquin frowned. "Of course we're going to," Rhys said, straightening to his full height and lifting his chin. "We will be outnumbered, and exhausted, and it will not end well. But this has nothing to do with my mate, or her sisters. The wall is down. It is gone. It is a new world, and we must decide how we are to end this old one and begin it anew. We must decide if we will begin it by allowing those who cannot defend themselves to be slaughtered. If that is the sort of people we are. Not individual courts. We, as a Fae people. Do we let the humans stand alone?" "We'll all die together, then," Helion said. "Good," Cassian said, glancing at Nesta. "If I end my life defending those who need it most, then I will consider it a death well spent." Lord Devlon, for once, nodded his approval. I wondered if Cassian noticed it--if he cared. His face revealed nothing, not as his focus remained wholly on my sister. "So will I," Tarquin said. Kallias looked to Viviane, who was smiling sadly up at him. I could see the regret there--for the time they had lost. But Kallias said, "We'll need to leave by tomorrow if we are to stand a chance at staunching the slaughter." "Sooner than that," Helion said, flashing a dazzling smile. "A few hours." He jerked his chin at Rhys. "You realize humans will be slaughtered before we can get there." "Not if we can act faster," I said, rotating my shoulder. Still stiff and sore, but healing fast. They all raised their brows. "Tonight," I said. "We winnow--those of us who can. To human homes--towns. And we winnow out as many of them as we can before dawn." "And where will we put them?" Helion demanded. "Velaris." "Too far," Rhys murmured, scanning the map before us. "To do all that winnowing." Tarquin tapped a finger on the map--on his territory. "Then bring them to Adriata. I will send Cresseida back--let her oversee them." "We'll need all the strength we have to fight Hybern," Kallias said carefully. "Wasting it on winnowing humans--" "It is no waste," I said. "One life may change the world. Where would you all be if someone had deemed saving my life to be a waste of time?" I pointed to Rhys. "If he had deemed saving my life Under the Mountain a waste of time? Even if it's only twenty families, or ten ... They are not a waste. Not to me--or to you." Viviane was giving her mate a sharp, reproachful glare, and Kallias had the good sense to mumble an apology. Then Amren said from behind us, striding through the tent flaps, "I hope you all voted to face Hybern in battle." Rhys arched a brow. "We did. Why?" Amren set the Book upon the table with a thump. "Because we will need it as a distraction." She smiled grimly at me. "We need to get to the Cauldron, girl. All of us." And I knew she didn't mean the High Lords. But rather the four of us--who had been Made. Me, Amren ... and my sisters. "You found another way to stop it?" Tarquin asked. Amren's sharp chin bobbed in a nod. "Even better. I found a way to stop his entire army." <|title|>Chapter 67 <|startofchapter|>We'd need access to the Cauldron--be able to touch it. Together. Alone, it had nearly killed me. But split amongst others who were Made ... We could withstand its lethal power. If we got it under our control, in one fell swoop we could harness its might to bind the king and his army. And wipe them off the earth. Amren had found the spell to do it. Right where the Suriel had claimed it'd be encoded in the Book. Rather than nullify the Cauldron's powers ... we would nullify the person controlling it. And his entire host. But we had to attain the Cauldron first. And with the two armies poised to fight ... We would move only when the carnage was at its peak. When Hybern might be distracted in the chaos. Unless he planned to wield that Cauldron on the killing field. Which was a high possibility. There was no chance we'd infiltrate that army camp again --not after we'd stolen Elain. So we would have to wait until we walked into the trap he'd set for us. Wait until we took up disadvantageous positions on that battlefield he'd selected, and arrive exhausted from the battles before it, the trek there. Exhausted from winnowing those human families out of his path. Which we did. That night, any of us who could winnow ... I went to my old village with Rhysand. I went to the houses where I had once left gold as a mortal woman. At first, they did not recognize me. Then they realized what I was. Rhys held their minds gently, soothing them, as I explained. What had happened to me, what was coming. What we needed to do. They did not have time to pack more than a few things. And they were all trembling as we swept them across the world, to the warmth of a lush forest just outside Adriata, Cresseida already waiting with food and a small army of servants to help and organize. The second family did not believe us. Thought it was some faerie trick. Rhys tried to hold their minds, but their panic was too deep, their hatred too tangible. They wanted to stay. Rhys didn't give them a choice after that. He winnowed their entire family, all of them screaming. They were still shrieking when we left them in that forest, more humans around them, our companions winnowing in new arrivals for Cresseida to document and soothe. So we continued. House to house. Family to family. Anyone in Hybern's path. All night. Every High Lord in our army, any commander or noble with the gift and strength. Until we were panting. Until there was a small city of humans huddled together in that summer-ripe forest. Until even Rhys's strength flagged and he could barely winnow back to our tent. He passed out before his head had hit the pillow, his wings splayed across the bed. Too much strain, too much relying on his power. I watched him sleep, counting his breaths. We knew--all of us did. We knew that we wouldn't walk away from that battlefield. Maybe it would inspire others to fight, but ... We knew. My mate, my family ... they would fight, buy us time with their lives while Amren and my sisters and I tried to stop that Cauldron. Some would go down before we could reach it. And they were willing to do it. If they were afraid, none of them let on. I brushed Rhys's sweat-damp hair back from his brow. I knew he'd give everything before any of us could offer it. Knew he'd try. It was as much a part of him as his limbs, this need to sacrifice, to protect. But I wouldn't let him do it--not without trying myself. Amren had not mentioned Bryaxis in our talks earlier. Had seemed to have forgotten it. But we still had a battle to wage tomorrow. And if Bryaxis could buy my friends, could buy Rhys, any extra time while I hunted down that Cauldron ... If it could buy them the slimmest shot of survival ... Then the Bone Carver could as well. I didn't care about the cost. Or the risk. Not as I looked at my sleeping mate, exhaustion lining his face. He had given enough. And if this broke me, drove me mad, ripped me apart ... All Amren would need was my presence, my body, tomorrow with the Cauldron. Anything else ... if it was what I had to give, my own cost to buy them any sliver of survival ... I would gladly pay it. Face it. So I rallied the dregs of my power and winnowed away-- winnowed north. To the Court of Nightmares. There was a winding stair, deep within the mountain. It led to only one place: a chamber near the uppermost peak. I had learned as much from my research. I stood at the base of that stairwell, peering up into the impenetrable gloom, my breath clouding in front of me. A thousand stairs. That was how many steps stood between me and the Ouroboros. The Mirror of Beginnings and Endings. Only you can decide what breaks you, Cursebreaker. Only you. I kindled a ball of faelight over my head and began my ascent. <|title|>Chapter 68 <|startofchapter|>I did not expect the snow. Or the moonlight. The chamber must have lain beneath the palace of moonstone--shafts in the rough rock leading outside, welcoming in snowdrifts and moonlight. I gritted my teeth against the bitter cold, the wind howling through the cracks like wolves raging along the mountainside beyond. The snow glittered over the walls and floor, slithering over my boots with the wind gusts. Moonlight peered in, bright enough that I vanished my ball of faelight, bathing the entire chamber in blues and silvers. And there, against the far wall of the chamber, snow crusting its surface, its bronze casing ... The Ouroboros. It was a massive, round disc--as tall as I was. Taller. And the metal around it had been fashioned after a massive serpent, the mirror held within its coils as it devoured its own tail. Ending and beginning. From across the room, with the snow ... I could not see it. What lay within. I forced myself to take a step forward. Another. The mirror itself was black as night--yet ... wholly clear. I watched myself approach. Watched the arm I had upraised against the wind and snow, the pinched expression on my face. The exhaustion. I stopped three feet away. I did not dare touch it. It only showed me myself. Nothing. I scanned the mirror for any signs of ... something to push or touch with my magic. But there was only the devouring head of the serpent, its maw open wide, frost sparkling on its fangs. I shuddered against the cold, rubbing my arms. My reflection did the same. "Hello?" I whispered. There was nothing. My hands burned with cold. Up close, the surface of the Ouroboros was like a gray, calm sea. Undisturbed. Sleeping. But in its upper corner--movement. No--not movement in the mirror. Behind me. I was not alone. Crawling down the snow-kissed wall, a massive beast of claws and scales and fur and shredding teeth inched toward the floor. Toward me. I kept my breathing steady. Did not let it scent a tendril of my fear--whatever it was. Some guardian of this place, some creature that had crawled in through the cracks-- Its enormous paws were near-silent on the floor, the fur on them a blend of black and gold. Not a beast designed to hunt in these mountains. Certainly not with the ridge of dark scales down its back. And the large, shining eyes-- I didn't have time to remark on those blue-gray eyes as the beast pounced. I whirled, Illyrian dagger in my freezing hand, ducking low and aiming up--for the heart. But no impact came. Only snow, and cold, and wind. There was nothing before me. Behind me. No paw prints in the snow. I whirled to the mirror. Where I had been standing ... that beast now sat, scaled tail idly swishing through the snow. Watching me. No--not watching. Gazing back at me. My reflection. Of what lurked beneath my skin. My knife clattered to the stones and snow. And I looked into the mirror. The Bone Carver was sitting against the wall as I entered his cell. "No escort this time?" I only stared at him--that boy. My son. And for once, the Carver seemed to go very still and quiet. He whispered, "You retrieved it." I looked toward a corner of his cell. The Ouroboros appeared, snow and ice still crusting it. Mine to summon, wherever and whenever I wished. "How." Words were still foreign, strange things. This body that I had returned to ... it was strange, too. My tongue was dry as paper as I said, "I looked." "What did you see?" The Carver got to his feet. I sank a little further back into my body. Just enough to smile slightly. "That is none of your concern." For the mirror ... it had shown me. So many things. I did not know how long had passed. Time--it had been different inside the mirror. But even a few hours might have been too many-- I pointed to the door. "You have your mirror. Now uphold your end. Battle awaits." The Bone Carver glanced between me and the mirror. And he smiled. "It would be my pleasure." And the way he said it ... I was wrung dry, my soul new and trembling, and yet I asked, "What do you mean?" The Carver simply straightened his clothes. "I have little need for that thing," he said, gesturing to the mirror. "But you did." I blinked slowly. "I wanted to see if you were worth helping," the Carver went on. "It's a rare person to face who they truly are and not run from it--not be broken by it. That's what the Ouroboros shows all who look into it: who they are, every despicable and unholy inch. Some gaze upon it and don't even realize that the horror they're seeing is them--even as the terror of it drives them mad. Some swagger in and are shattered by the small, sorry creature they find instead. But you ... Yes, rare indeed. I could risk leaving here for nothing less." Rage--blistering rage started to fill in the holes left by what I'd beheld in that mirror. "You wanted to see if I was worthy?" That innocent people were worthy of being helped. A nod. "I did. And you are. And now I shall help you." I debated slamming that cell door in his face. But I only said quietly, "Good." I walked over to him. And I was not afraid as I grabbed the Bone Carver's cold hand. "Then let's begin." <|title|>Chapter 69 <|startofchapter|>Dawn broke, gilding the low-lying mists snaking over the plains of the mortal land. Hybern had razed everything from the Spring Court down to the few miles before the sea. Including my village. There was nothing left but smoking cinders and crumbled stone as we marched past. And my father's estate ... One-third of the house remained standing, the rest wrecked. Windows shattered, walls cracked down to the foundation. Elain's garden was trampled, little more than a mud pit. That proud oak near the edge of the property--where Nesta had liked to stand in the shade and overlook our lands ... It had been burned into a skeletal husk. It was a personal attack. I knew it. We all did. The king had ordered our livestock killed. I'd gotten the dogs and horses out the night before--along with the servants and their families. But the riches, the personal touches ... Looted or destroyed. That Hybern had not lingered to decimate what was left standing of the house, Cassian told me, suggested he did not want us gaining too much on him. He'd establish his advantage--pick the right battlefield. We had no doubt that finding the empty villages along the way whetted the king's rage. And there were enough towns and villages that we had not reached in time that we hurried. An easier feat in theory than in practice, with an army of our size and made up of so many differently trained soldiers, with so many leaders giving orders about what to do. The Illyrians were testy--yanking at the leash, even under Lord Devlon's strict command. Annoyed that we had to wait for the others, that we couldn't just fly ahead and intercept Hybern, stop them before they could select the battlefield. I watched Cassian lay into two different captains within the span of three hours--watched him reassign the grumbling soldiers to hauling carts and wagons of supplies, pulling some off the honor of being on the front lines. As soon as the others saw that he meant every word, every threat ... the complaining ceased. Keir and his Darkbringers watched Cassian, too--and were wise enough to keep any discontent off their tongues, their faces. To keep marching, their dark armor growing muddier with every passing mile. During the brief midday break in a large meadow, Nesta and I climbed inside one of the supply caravan's covered wagons to change into Illyrian fighting leathers. When we emerged, Nesta even buckled a knife at her side. Cassian had insisted, yet he'd admitted that since she was untrained, she was just as likely to hurt herself as she was to hurt someone else. Elain ... She'd taken one look at us in the swaying grasses outside that wagon, the legs and assets on display, and turned crimson. Viviane stepped in, offering a Winter Court fashion that was far less scandalous: leather pants, but paired with a thigh-length blue surcoat, white fur trimming the collar. In the heat, it'd be miserable, but Elain was thankful enough that she didn't complain when we again emerged from the covered wagon and found our companions waiting. She refused the knife Cassian handed her, though. Went white as death at the sight of it. Azriel, still limping, merely nudged aside Cassian and extended another option. "This is Truth-Teller," he told her softly. "I won't be using it today--so I want you to." His wings had healed--though long, thin scars now raked down them. Still not strong enough, Madja had warned him, to fly today. The argument with Rhys this morning had been swift and brutal: Azriel insisted he could fly--fight with the legions, as they'd planned. Rhys refused. Cassian refused. Azriel threatened to slip into shadow and fight anyway. Rhys merely said that if he so much as tried, he'd chain Azriel to a tree. And Azriel ... It was only when Mor had entered the tent and begged him--begged him with tears in her eyes--that he relented. Agreed to be eyes and ears and nothing else. And now, standing amongst the sighing meadow grasses in his Illyrian armor, all seven Siphons gleaming ... Elain's eyes widened at the obsidian-hilted blade in Azriel's scarred hand. The runes on the dark scabbard. "It has never failed me once," the shadowsinger said, the midday sun devoured by the dark blade. "Some people say it is magic and will always strike true." He gently took her hand and pressed the hilt of the legendary blade into it. "It will serve you well." '"I-- don't know how to use it--" "I'll make sure you don't have to," I said, grass crunching as I stepped closer. Elain weighed my words ... and slowly closed her fingers around the blade. Cassian gawked at Azriel, and I wondered how often Azriel had lent out that blade-- Never, Rhys said from where he finished buckling on his own weapons against the side of the wagon. I have never once seen Azriel let another person touch that knife. Elain looked up at Azriel, their eyes meeting, his hand still lingering on the hilt of the blade. I saw the painting in my mind: the lovely fawn, blooming spring vibrant behind her. Standing before Death, shadows and terrors lurking over his shoulder. Light and dark, the space between their bodies a blend of the two. The only bridge of connection ... that knife. Paint that when we get home. Busybody. I peered over my shoulder to Rhys, who stepped up to our little circle in the grass. His face remained more haggard than usual, lines of strain bracketing his mouth. And I realized ... I would not get that last night with him. Last night--that had been the final night. We'd spent it winnowing-- Don't think like that. Don't go into this battle thinking you won't walk off again. His gaze was sharp. Unyielding. Breathing became difficult. This break is the last time we'll all be here--talking. For this final leg of the march we were about to embark on ... It would take us right to the battlefield. Rhys lifted a brow. Would you like to go into that wagon for a few minutes, then? Its a little cramped between the weapons and supplies, but I can make it work. The humor--as much for me as it was for him. I took his hand, realizing the others were talking quietly, Mor having sauntered over in full, dark armor, Amren ... Amren was in Illyrian leathers, too. So small--they must have been built for a child. Don't tell her, but they were. My lips tugged toward a smile. But Rhys stared at all of us, somehow assembled here in the sun-drenched open grasses without being given the order. Our family--our court. The Court of Dreams. They all quieted. Rhys looked them each in the eye, even my sisters, his hand brushing the back of my own. "Do you want the inspiring talk or the bleak one?" he asked. "We want the real one," Amren said. Rhys pushed his shoulders back, elegantly folding his wings behind him. "I believe everything happens for a reason. Whether it is decided by the Mother, or the Cauldron, or some sort of tapestry of Fate, I don't know. I don't really care. But I am grateful for it, whatever it is. Grateful that it brought you all into my life. If it hadn't ... I might have become as awful as that prick we're going to face today. If I had not met an Illyrian warrior-in-training," he said to Cassian, "I would not have known the true depths of strength, of resilience, of honor and loyalty." Cassian's eyes gleamed bright. Rhys said to Azriel, "If I had not met a shadowsinger, I would not have known that it is the family you make, not the one you are born into, that matters. I would not have known what it is to truly hope, even when the world tells you to despair." Azriel bowed his head in thanks. Mor was already crying when Rhys spoke to her. "If I had not met my cousin, I would never have learned that light can be found in even the darkest of hells. That kindness can thrive even amongst cruelty." She wiped away her tears as she nodded. I waited for Amren to offer a retort. But she was only waiting. Rhys bowed his head to her. "If I had not met a tiny monster who hoards jewels more fiercely than a firedrake ..." A quiet laugh from all of us at that. Rhys smiled softly. "My own power would have consumed me long ago." Rhys squeezed my hand as he looked to me at last. "And if I had not met my mate ..." His words failed him as silver lined his eyes. He said down the bond, I would have waited five hundred more years for you. A thousand years. And if this was all the time we were allowed to have ... The wait was worth it. He wiped away the tears sliding down my face. "I believe that everything happened, exactly the way it had to ... so I could find you." He kissed another tear away. And then he said to my sisters, "We have not known each other for long. But I have to believe that you were brought here, into our family, for a reason, too. And maybe today we'll find out why." He surveyed them all again--and held out his hand to Cassian. Cassian took it, and held out his other for Mor. Then Mor extended her other to Azriel. Azriel to Amren. Amren to Nesta. Nesta to Elain. And Elain to me. Until we were all linked, all bound together. Rhys said, "We will walk onto that field and only accept Death when it comes to haul us away to the Otherworld. We will fight for life, for survival, for our futures. But if it is decided by that tapestry of Fate or the Cauldron or the Mother that we do not walk off that field today ..." His chin lifted. "The great joy and honor of my life has been to know you. To call you my family. And I am grateful--more than I can possibly say--that I was given this time with you all." "We are grateful, Rhysand," Amren said quietly. "More than you know." Rhys gave her a small smile as the others murmured their agreement. He squeezed my hand again as he said, "Then let's go make Hybern very ungrateful to have known us, too." I could smell the sea long before we beheld the battlefield. Hybern had chosen well. A vast, grassy plain stretched to the shore. A mile inland, he had planted his army. It rippled away, a dark mass spreading to the eastern horizon. Rocky foothills arose at his back--some of his army also stationed atop them. Indeed, even the plain seemed to slope upward to the east. I lingered at Rhysand's side atop a broad knoll overlooking the plain, my sisters, Azriel, and Amren close behind. At the distant front lines far ahead, Helion, resplendent in golden armor and a rippling red cape, gave the order to halt. Armies obeyed, shifting into the positions they'd sorted out. The host we faced, though ... they were waiting. Poised. So many. I knew without counting that we were vastly outnumbered. Cassian landed from the skies, stone-faced, all of his Siphons smoldering as he crossed the flat-topped knoll in a few steps. "The prick took every inch of high ground and advantage he could find. If we want to rout them, we'll have to chase them up into those hills. Which I have no doubt he's already calculated. Likely set with all kinds of surprises." In the distance, those naga-hounds began snarling and howling. With hunger. Rhys only asked, "How long do you think we have?" Cassian clenched his jaw, glancing at my sisters. Nesta was watching him keenly; Elain monitored the army from our minor elevation, face white with dread. "We have five High Lords, and there's only one of him. You all could shield us for a while. But it might not be in our interest to drain every one of you like that. He'll have shields, too--and the Cauldron. He's been careful not to let us see the full extent of his power. I have no doubt we're about to, though." "He'll likely be using spells," I said, remembering that he'd trained Amarantha. "Make sure Helion is on alert," Azriel offered, limping to Rhys's side. "And Thesan." "You didn't answer my question," Rhys said to Cassian. Cassian sized up Hybern's unending army, then our own. "Let's say it goes badly. Shields shattered, disarray, he uses the Cauldron ... A few hours." I closed my eyes. During that time, I'd have to get across the battlefield before us, find wherever he kept the Cauldron, and stop it. "My shadows are hunting for it," Azriel said to me, reading my face as I opened my eyes. His jaw clenched at the words. He was supposed to have been searching for it himself. He flared and settled his wings, as if testing them. "But the wards are strong--no doubt reinforced by the king after you shredded through his at the camp. You might have to go on foot. Wait until the slaughter starts getting sloppy." Cassian dipped his head and said to Amren, "You'll know when." She nodded sharply, crossing her arms. I wondered if she'd said good-bye to Varian. Cassian clapped Rhys on the shoulder. "On your command, I'll get the Illyrians into the skies. We advance on your signal after that." Rhys nodded distantly, attention still fixed on that overwhelming army. Cassian took a step away, but looked back at Nesta. Her face was hard as granite. He opened his mouth, but seemed to decide against whatever he was about to say. My sister said nothing as Cassian shot into the sky with a powerful thrust of his wings. Yet she tracked his flight until he was hardly more than a dark speck. "I can fight on foot," Azriel said to Rhys. "No." There was no arguing with that tone. Azriel seemed like he was debating it, but Amren shook her head in warning and he backed down, shadows coiling at his fingers. In silence, we watched our army settle into neat, solid lines. Watched the Illyrians lift into the skies at whatever silent command Rhys sent to Cassian, forming mirror lines above. Siphons glinted with color, and shields locked into place, both magical and metal. The ground itself shook with each step toward that demarcation line. Rhys said into my mind, if Hybern has a lock on my power, he will sense me sneaking across the battlefield. I knew what he was implying. You're needed here. If we both disappear, he'll know. A pause. Are you afraid? Are you? His violet eyes caught mine. So few stars now shone within them. "Yes," he breathed. Not for myself. For all of you. Tarquin barked an order far ahead, and our unified army came to a halt, like some mighty beast pausing. Summer, Winter, Day, Dawn, and Night--each court's forces clearly marked by the alterations in color and armor. In the faeries who fought alongside the High Fae, ethereal and deadly. A legion of Thesan's Peregryns flapped into rank beside the Illyrians, their golden armor gleaming against the solid black of our own. No sign of Beron or Eris--not a whisper of Autumn coming to assist us. Or Tamlin. But Hybern's army did not advance. They might as well have been statues. The stillness, I knew, was more to unnerve us. "Magic first," Amren was explaining to Nesta. "Both sides will try to bring down the shields around the armies." As if in answer, they did. My magic writhed in response to the High Lords unleashing their might--all but Rhysand. He was saving his power for once the shields came down. I had no doubt Hybern himself was doing the same across the plain. Shields faltered on either side. Some died. Not many, but a few. Magic against magic, the earth shuddering, the grass between the armies withering and turning to ash. "I forgot how boring this part is," Amren muttered. Rhys shot her a dry look. But he prowled to the edge of our little outlook, as if sensing the stalemate was soon to break. He'd deliver a mighty, devastating blow to the army the moment their shield buckled. A veritable tidal wave of night- kissed power. His fingers curled at his sides. To my left, Azriel's Siphons glowed--readying to unleash blasts to echo Rhysand's. He might not be able to fight, but he would wield his power from here. I came to Rhys's side. Ahead, both shields were wobbling at last. "I never got you a mating present," I said. Rhys monitored the battle ahead. His power rumbled beneath us, surging from the shadowy heart of the world. Soon. A matter of moments. My heart thundered, sweat beading my brow--not just from the summer heat now thick across the field. "I've been thinking and thinking," I went on, "about what to get you." Slowly, so slowly, Rhys's eyes slid to mine. Only a chasm of power lay within them--blotting out those stars. I smiled at him, bathing in that power, and sent an image into his mind. Of the column of my spine, now inked from my base to my nape with four phases of the moon. And a small star in the middle of them. "But, I'll admit," I said as his eyes flared, "this mating gift is probably for both of us." Hybern's shield came crashing down. My magic snapped from me, cleaving through the world. Revealing the glamour I'd had in place for hours. Before our front line ... A cloud of darkness appeared, writhing and whirling on itself. "Mother above," Azriel breathed. Right as a male figure appeared beside that swirling ebony smoke. Both armies seemed to pause with surprise. "You retrieved the Ouroboros," Rhys whispered. For standing before Hybern were the Bone Carver and the living nest of shadows that was Bryaxis, the former contained and freed in a Fae body by myself last night. Both bound to obey by the simple bargain now inked onto my spine. "I did." He scanned me from head to toe, the wind stirring his blue- black hair as he asked softly, "What did you see?" Hybern was stirring, frantically assessing what and who now stood before them. The Carver had chosen the form of an Illyrian soldier in his prime. Bryaxis remained within the darkness roiling around it, the living tapestry it would use to reveal the nightmares of its victims. "Myself," I said at last. "I saw myself." It was, perhaps, the one thing I would never show him. Anyone. How I had cowered and raged and wept. How I had vomited, and screamed, and clawed at the mirror. Slammed my fists into it. And then curled up, trembling at every horrific and cruel and selfish thing I'd beheld within that monster-- within me. But I had kept watching. I did not turn from it. And when my shaking stopped, I studied it. All of those wretched things. The pride and the hypocrisy and the shame. The rage and the cowardice and the hurt. Then I began to see other things. More important things-- more vital. "And what I saw," I said quietly to him as the Carver raised a hand. "I think--I think I loved it. Forgave it--me. All of it." It was only in that moment when I knew--I'd understood what the Suriel had meant. Only I could allow the bad to break me. Only I could own it, embrace it. And when I'd learned that ... the Ouroboros had yielded to me. Rhys arched a brow, even as awe crept across his face. "You loved all of it--the good and the bad?" I smiled a bit. "Especially the bad." The two figures seemed to take a breath--a mighty inhale that had Bryaxis's dark cloud contracting. Readying to spring. I inclined my head to my mate. "Here's to a long, happy mating, Rhys." "Seems like you beat me to it." "To what?" With a wink, Rhys pointed toward Bryaxis and the Carver. Another figure appeared. The Carver stumbled back a step. And I knew--from the slim, female figure, the dark, flowing hair, the once-again beautiful face ... I knew who she was. Stryga--the Weaver. And atop the Weaver's dark hair ... A pale blue jewel glittered. Ianthe's jewel. A blood trophy as the Weaver smiled at her twin, gave him a mocking bow, and faced the host before them. The Carver halted his slow retreat, stared at his sister for a long moment, then turned to the army once more. "You're not the only one who can offer bargains, you know," Rhys drawled with a wicked smile. The Weaver. Rhys had gotten the Weaver to join us-- "How?" He angled his neck, revealing a small, curling tattoo behind his ear. "I sent Helion to bargain on my behalf--that was why he was in the Middle that day he found you. To offer to break the containment spell on the Weaver ... in exchange for her services today." I blinked at my mate. Then grinned, not bothering to hide the savagery within it. "Hybern has no idea about the hell that's about to rain down upon them, do they." "Here's to family reunions," was all Rhys said. Then the Weaver, the Carver, and Bryaxis unleashed themselves upon Hybern. <|title|>Chapter 70 <|startofchapter|>"You actually did it," Amren murmured, gaping as the three immortals slammed into Hybern's lines, and the screaming began. Bodies fell before them; bodies were left in their wake-- some mere husks encased in armor. Drained by the Carver and Stryga. Some fled from what they beheld in Bryaxis--the face of their deepest fears. Rhys was still smiling at me as he extended a hand toward Hybern's army, now trying to adjust to the rampant havoc. His fingers pointed. Obsidian power erupted from him. A massive chunk of Hybern's army just ... Misted. Red mist, and metal shavings lay where they had been. Rhys panted, his eyes a bit wild. The hit had been well placed. Splitting the army in two. Azriel unleashed a second blast--blue light slamming into the now-exposed flank. Driving them farther apart. The Illyrians moved. That had been Rhys's signal. They shot down from the skies--just as a legion rose up from Hybern teeming with things like the Attor. Hidden amongst Hybern's ranks. Siphons flared, locking shields into place--and the Illyrians rained arrows with deadly accuracy. But the Attor legion was well prepared. And when they answered with a volley of their own ... Ash shafts, but arrowheads made from faebane. Even with Nuan's antidote in our soldiers' veins, it did not extend to their magic--and it was no defense against the stone itself. Faebane arrows pierced Siphon-shields as easily as butter. The king had adapted--improved--his arsenal. Some Illyrians went down quickly. The others realized the threat and used their metal shields, unhooking them from across their backs. On land, Tarquin's, Helion's, and Kallias's soldiers began to charge. Hybern unleashed its hounds--and other beasts. And as those two sides barreled for each other ... Rhys sent another blast, followed by a wave of power from Tarquin. Splitting and shoving Hybern's lines into uneven groups. And through it all, Bryaxis ... All I could make of it was a blur of ever-changing claws and fangs and wings and muscle, shifting and whirling within that dark cloud that struck and smothered. Blood sprayed wherever it plunged into screaming soldiers. Some seemed to die of pure terror. The Bone Carver fought near Bryaxis. No weapons to be seen beyond a scimitar of ivory--of bone--in that male's hands. He swept it before himself, as if he were threshing wheat. Soldiers dropped dead before it--with barely a blow laid upon them. Even that Fae body of his could not contain that lethal power--stifle it. Hybern fled before him. Before the Weaver. For on the other side of the Carver, leaving husks of corpses in her wake ... Stryga shredded through Hybern in a tangle of black hair and white limbs. Our own soldiers, mercifully, did not balk as they ran for the enemy lines. And I sent a roaring order down that two- pronged bond that now linked me to the Carver and Bryaxis, reminding them, my teeth gritted, that our soldiers were not fair game. Only Hybern and its allies. Both raged against the order, yanking at the leash. I rallied every scrap of night and starlight and snarled at them to obey. I could have sworn an otherworldly, ungodly sense of self grumbled about it in response. But they listened. And did not turn on our soldiers who at last intercepted Hybern's lines. The sound as both armies collided ... I didn't have words for it. Elain covered her ears, cringing. My friends were down there. Mor fought with Viviane, keeping an eye on her as she'd promised Kallias, while he released his power in sprays of skin-shredding ice. Cassian--I couldn't even spot him beyond the blazing flare of his Siphons near the front lines, crimson glowing amid the vicious shadows of Keir's Darkbringers as they wielded them to their advantage: blinding swaths of Hybern soldiers in sudden darkness ... then blinding them doubly when they ripped those shadows away and left nothing but glaring sunlight. Left nothing but their awaiting blades. "It's already getting messy," Amren said, even though our lines--especially the Illyrians and Thesan's Peregryns--held. "Not yet," Rhys said. "Much of the army isn't yet engaged past the front lines. We need Hybern's focus elsewhere." Starting with Rhys setting foot on that battlefield. My guts twisted up. Hybern's army began to move, pressing ahead. The Weaver, Carver, and Bryaxis plunged deep into the ranks, but Hybern's soldiers quickly stepped up to staunch the holes in the lines. Helion bellowed at our front lines to hold steady. Arrows rose and fell on either side. The ones tipped in faebane found their mark. Over and over again. As if the king had spelled them to hunt their targets. "This will be over before we can even walk down this hill," Amren snapped. Rhys growled at her. "Not yet--" A horn sounded--to the north. Both armies seemed to pause to look. And Rhys only breathed to me, "Now. You have to go now. Because the army that broke over the northern horizon ... Three armies. One bearing the burnt-orange flag of Beron. The other the grass-green flag of the Spring Court. And one ... one of mortal men in iron armor. Bearing a cobalt flag with a striking badger. Graysen's crest. Out of a rip in the world, Eris appeared atop our knoll, clad head to toe in silver armor, a red cape spilling from his shoulders. Rhys snarled a warning, too far gone in his power to bother controlling himself. Eris just rested a hand on the pommel of his fine sword and said, "We thought you might need some help." Because Tamlin's small army, and Beron's, and Graysen's ... Now they were running and winnowing and blasting for Hybern's ranks. And leading that human army ... Jurian. But Beron. Beron had come. Eris registered our shock at that, too, and said, "Tamlin made him. Dragged my father out by his neck." A half smile. "It was delightful." They had come--and Tamlin had managed to rally that force I'd so gleefully destroyed-- "Tamlin wants orders," Eris said. "Jurian does, too." Rhys's voice was rough--low. "And what of your father?" "We're taking care of a problem," was all Eris said, and pointed toward his father's army. For those were his brothers approaching the front line, winnowing in bursts through the host. Right past the front lines and to the enemy wagons scattered throughout Hybern's ranks. Wagons full of faebane, I realized as they crackled with blue fire and then turned to ash without even a trace of smoke. His brothers winnowed to every cache, every arsenal. Flames exploded in their path. Destroying that supply of deadly faebane. Burning it into nothing. As if someone--Jurian or Tamlin--had told them precisely where each would be. Rhys blinked, his only sign of surprise. He looked to me, then Amren, and nodded. Go. Now. While Hybern was focused on the approaching army-- trying to calculate the risks, to staunch the chaos Beron and his sons unleashed with their targeted attacks. Trying to figure out what the hell Jurian was doing there, and how many weaknesses Jurian had learned. And would now exploit. Amren ushered my sisters forward, even as Elain let out a low sob at the sight of the Graysen coat of arms. "Now. Quick and quiet as shadows." We were going down--into that. Bryaxis and the Carver were still shredding, still slaughtering in their little pockets past the enemy lines. And the Weaver ... Where was the Weaver-- There. Slowly plowing a slim path of carnage. As Rhys had instructed her moments before. "This way," I said to them, keeping an eye on Stryga's path of horror. Elain was shaking, still gazing toward that human army and her betrothed in it. Nesta monitored the Illyrian legions soaring past overhead, their lines unfaltering. "I assume we'll be following the path of bodies," Amren muttered to me. "How does the Weaver know how to find the Cauldron?" Rhys seemed to be listening, even as we turned away, his fingers brushing mine in silent farewell. I just said, "Because she appears to have an unnaturally good sense of smell." Amren snorted, and we fell into flanking positions around my sisters. A glamour of invisibility would hopefully allow us to skirt the southern edge of the battlefield--along with Azriel's shadows as he monitored from behind. But once we got behind enemy lines ... I looked back as we neared the edge of the knoll. Just once. At Rhys, where he now stood talking to Azriel and Eris, explaining the plan to relay to Tamlin, Beron, and Jurian. Eris's brothers made it back behind their father's lines--fires now burning throughout Hybern's army. Not enough to stop them, but ... at least the faebane had been dealt with. For now. Rhys's attention slid to me. And even with the battle around us, hell unleashing everywhere ... For a heartbeat, we were the only two people on this plain. I opened up my mental barriers to speak to him. Just one more farewell, one more-- Nesta inhaled a shuddering gasp. Stumbled, and took down Amren with her when she tried to keep her upright. Rhys was instantly there, before the understanding dawned upon me. The Cauldron. Hybern was rousing the Cauldron. Amren squirmed out from beneath Nesta, whirling toward the battlefield. "Shields--" Eris winnowed away--to warn his father, no doubt. Nesta pushed herself onto her elbows, hair shaking free of her braid, lips bloodless. She heaved into the grass. Rhys's magic shot out of him, arcing around our entire army, his breathing a wet rasp-- Nesta's hands grappled into the grass as she lifted her head, scanning the horizon. Like she could see right to where the Cauldron was now about to be unleashed. Rhys's power flowed and flowed out of him, bracing for impact. Azriel's Siphons flashed, a sprawling shield of cobalt locking over Rhysand's, his breathing just as heavy as my mate's-- And then Nesta began screaming. Not in pain. But a name. Over and over. "CASSIAN." Amren reached for her, but Nesta roared, "CASSIAN!"' She scrambled to her feet, as if she'd leap into the skies. Her body lurched, and she went down, heaving again. A figure shot from the Illyrian ranks, spearing for us, flapping hard, red Siphons blazing-- Nesta moaned, writhing on the ground. The earth seemed to shudder in response. No--not in response to her. In terror of the thing that erupted from Hybern's army. I understood why the king had claimed those rocky foothills. Not to make us charge uphill if we should push them so far. But to position the Cauldron. For it was from the rocky outcropping that a battering ram of death-white light hurled for our army. Just about level with the Illyrian legion in the sky--as the Attor's legion dropped to the earth, and ducked for cover. Leaving the Illyrians exposed. Cassian was halfway to us when the Cauldron's blast hit the Illyrian forces. I saw him scream--but heard nothing. The force of that power ... It shredded Azriel's shield. Then Rhysand's. And then shredded any Siphon-made ones. It hollowed out my ears and seared my face. And where a thousand soldiers had been a heartbeat before Ashes rained down upon our foot soldiers. Nesta had known. She gaped up at me, terror and agony on her face, then scanned the sky for Cassian, who flapped in place, as if torn between coming for us and charging back to the scattering Illyrian and Peregryn ranks. She'd known where that blast was about to hit. Cassian had been right in the center of it. Or would have been, if she hadn't called him away. Rhys was looking at her like he knew, too. Like he didn't know whether to scold her for the guilt Cassian would no doubt feel, or thank her for saving him. Nesta's body went stiff again, a low moan breaking from her. I felt Rhys cast out his power--a silent warning signal. The other High Lords raised shields this time, backing the one he rallied. But the Cauldron did not hit the same spot twice. And Hybern was willing to incinerate part of his own army if it meant wiping out a strength of ours. Cassian was again hurtling for us, for Nesta sprawled on the ground, as the light and unholy heat of the Cauldron were unleashed again. Right into its own lines. Where the Bone Carver was gleefully shredding apart soldiers, draining the life from them in sweeps and gusts of that deadly wind. An unearthly, female shriek broke from deep in the Hybern forces. A sister's warning--and pain. Just as that white light slammed into the Bone Carver. But the Carver ... I could have sworn he looked toward me as the Cauldron's power crashed into him. Could have sworn he smiled--and it was not a hideous thing at all. There--and gone. The Cauldron wiped him away without any sign of effort. <|title|>Chapter 71 <|startofchapter|>I could barely hear, barely think in the wake of the Cauldron's power. In the wake of the empty, blasted bit of plain where the Carver had been. The sudden cold that shuddered down my spine--as if erasing the tattoo inked upon it. And then the silence--silence in some pocket of my mind as a section of that two-pronged leash of control faded into darkness without end. Leaving nothing behind. I wondered who would carve his death in the Prison. If he had perhaps already carved it for himself on the walls of that cell. If he had wanted to make sure I was worthy not to taunt me, but because he wanted his end ... he wanted his end to be worth carving. And as I gazed at that decimated part of the plain, the ashes of the Illyrians still raining down ... I wondered if the Carver had made it. To wherever he had been so curious about going. I sent up a quiet prayer for him--for all the soldiers who had been there and were now ash on the wind ... sent up a prayer that they found it everything they'd hoped it would be. It was the Illyrians who drew me out of the quiet, the ringing in my ears. Even as our army began to panic in the wake of the Cauldron's might, the remaining bulk of the Illyrian legions re-formed their lines and charged ahead, Thesan's Peregryns wholly interspersed with them now. Jurian's human army, made up of Graysen's men and others ... To their credit, they did not falter. Did not break, even as they went down one by one. If the Cauldron dealt another blow ... Nesta had her brow in the grass as Cassian landed so hard the ground shuddered. He was reaching for her as he panted, "What is it, what--" "It's gone quiet again," Nesta breathed, letting Cassian haul her into a sitting position as he scanned her face. Devastation and rage lay in his own. Did he know? That she had screamed for him, knowing he'd come ... That she'd done it to save him? Rhys only ordered him, "Get back in line. The soldiers need you there." Cassian bared his teeth. "What the hell can we do against that?" "I'm going in," Azriel said. "No," Rhys snapped. But Azriel was spreading his wings, the sunlight so stark on the new, slashing scars down the membrane. "Chain me to a tree, Rhys," Azriel said softly. "Go ahead." He began checking the buckles on his weapons. "I'll rip it out of the ground and fly with it on my damned back." Rhys just stared at him--the wings. Then the decimated Illyrian forces. Any chance we had of victory ... Nesta wasn't going anywhere. She could barely stay sitting. And Elain ... Amren was holding Elain upright as she vomited in the grass. Not from the Cauldron. But pure terror. But if we did not stop the Cauldron before it refilled again ... We'd be gone within a few more strikes. I met Amren's gaze. Can it be done--with just me? Her eyes narrowed. Maybe. A pause. Maybe. It never specified how many. Between the two of us ... it could be enough. I eased to my feet. The view of the battle was so much worse standing. Helion, Tarquin, and Kallias struggled to hold our lines. Jurian, Tamlin, and Beron still battered the northern flank, while the Illyrians and Peregryns slammed back the aerial legion; Keir's Darkbringers now little more than wisps of shadow amid the chaos, but ... But it was not enough. And Hybern's sheer size ... It was beginning to push us back. Beginning to overwhelm us. Even by the time Amren and I crossed the miles of battlefield ... What would be left? Who would be left? There was another horn, then. I knew it did not belong to any ally. Just as I knew Hybern had not only picked this battlefield for its physical advantages ... but geographical ones. Because toward the sea, sailing out of the west, out of Hybern ... An armada appeared. So many ships. All teeming with soldiers. I caught the look between Cassian, Azriel, and Rhys as they beheld the other army sailing in--at our backs. Not another army. The rest of Hybern's army. We were trapped between them. Amren swore. "We might need to run, Rhysand. Before they make landfall." We could not fight both armies. Couldn't even fight one. Rhys turned to me. If you can get across that battlefield in time, then do it. Try to stop the army. The king. But if you cant, when it all goes to hell ... When there are none of us left Don't, I begged him. Don't say it. I want you to run. I don't care what it costs. You run. Get far away, and live to fight another day. You don't look back. I began to shake my head. You said no good-byes. "Azriel," Rhys said quietly. Hoarsely. "You lead the remaining Illyrians on the northern flank." Guilt--guilt and fear rippled in my mate's eyes at the command. Knowing that Azriel was not fully healed-- Azriel didn't give Rhys a chance to reconsider. Didn't say good-bye to any of us. He shot into the sky, those still-healing wings beating hard as they carried him toward the scrambling northern flank. That armada sailed nearer. Hybern, sensing their reinforcements were soon to make landfall, cheered and pushed. Hard. So hard the Illyrian lines buckled. Azriel sailed closer and closer to them, Siphons trailing tendrils of blue flame in his wake. Rhys watched him for a moment, throat bobbing, before he said, "Cassian, you take the southern flank." This was it. The last moments ... the last time I would see them all. I wouldn't run. If it all went to hell, I would make it count and use my own last breath to get that army and king wiped off the earth. But right now ... Hybern's armada sailed directly for the distant beach. If I didn't go now, I'd have to charge right through them. The Weaver was already slowing on the eastern front, her death- dance hindered by too many enemies. Bryaxis continued to shred through the lines, swaths of the dead in its wake. But it was still not enough. All that planning ... it was still not enough. Cassian said to Rhys, to me, to Nesta, "I'll see you on the other side." I knew he didn't mean the battlefield. His wings shifted, readying to lift him. A horn blast cleaved the world. A dozen horns, lifted in perfect, mighty harmony. Rhys went still. Utterly still at the sound of those horns from the distance. From the east--from the sea. He whipped his head to me, grabbed me by the waist, and hauled me into the sky. A heartbeat later, Cassian was beside us, Nesta in his arms--as if she'd demanded to see. And there ... sailing over the eastern horizon ... I did not know where to look. At the winged soldiers--thousands upon thousands of them --flying straight toward us, high above the ocean. Or the armada of ships stretching away beneath them. More than Hybern's armada. Far, far more. I knew who they were the moment the aerial host's white, feathered wings became clear. The Seraphim. Drakon's legion. And in those ships below ... So many different ships. A thousand ships from countless nations, it seemed. Miryam's people. But the other ships ... Out of the clouds, a tan-skinned, dark-haired Seraphim warrior soared for us. And Rhys's choked laugh was enough to tell me who it was. Who now flapped before us, grinning broadly. "You could have asked for aid, you know," drawled the male--Drakon. "Instead of letting us hear of all this through the rumor mill. Seems we arrived just in time." "We came looking for you--and found you gone," Rhys said--but those were tears in his eyes. "Makes it hard to ask someone for aid." Drakon snorted. "Yes, we realized that. Miryam figured it out--why we hadn't heard from you yet." His white wings were almost blindingly bright in the sun. "Three centuries ago, we had some trouble on our borders and set up a glamour to keep the island shielded. Tied to--you know. So that anyone who approached would only see a ruin and be inclined to turn around." He winked at Rhys. "Miryam's idea--she got it from you and your city." Drakon winced a bit. "Turns out, it worked too well, if it kept out both enemies and friends." "You mean to tell me," Rhys said softly, "that you've been on Cretea this entire time." Drakon grimaced. "Yes. Until ... we heard about Hybern. About Miryam being ... hunted again." By Jurian. The prince's face tightened with rage, but he surveyed me, then Nesta and Cassian, with a sharp-eyed scrutiny. "Shall we assist you, or just flap here, talking?" Rhys inclined his head. "At your leisure, Prince." He glanced to the armada now aiming for Hybern's forces. "Friends of yours?" Drakon's mouth quirked to the side. "Friends of yours, I think." My heart stopped. "Some of Miryam's boats are down there, she with them, but most of that came for you." "What," Nesta said sharply, not quite a question. Drakon pointed to the ships. "We met up with them on the flight here. Saw them crossing the channel and decided to join ranks. It's why we're a little late--though we gave them a bit of a push across." Indeed, wind was now whipping at their white sails, propelling those boats faster and faster toward that Hybern armada. Drakon rubbed his jaw. "I can't even begin to explain the convoluted story they told me, but ..." He shook his head. "They're led by a queen named Vassa." I began crying. "Who apparently was found by--" "Lucien," I breathed. "Who?" Drakon's brows narrowed. "Oh, the male with the eye. No. He met up with them later on--told them where to go. To come now, actually. So pushy, you Prythian males. Good thing we, at least, were already on our way to see if you needed help." "Who found Vassa," Nesta said with that same flat tone. As if she somehow already knew. Closer, those human ships sailed. So many--so, so many, bearing a variety of different flags that I could just start to make out, thanks to my Fae sight. "He calls himself the Prince of Merchants," Drakon said. "Apparently, he discovered the human queens were traitors months ago, and has been gathering an independent human army to face Hybern ever since. He managed to find Queen Vassa--and together they rallied this army." Drakon shrugged. "He told me that he's got three daughters who live here. And that he failed them for many years. But he would not fail them this time." The ships at the front of the human armada became clear, along with the gold lettering on their sides. "He named his three personal ships after them," Drakon said with a smile. And there, sailing at the front ... I beheld the names of those ships. The Feyre. The Elain. And leading the charge against Hybern, flying over the waves, unyielding and without an ounce of fear ... The Nesta. With my father ... our father at the helm. <|title|>Chapter 72 <|startofchapter|>The wind whipped away the tears rolling down Nesta's face at the sight of our father's ships. At the sight of the ship he'd chosen to sail into battle, for the daughter who had hated him for not fighting for us, who had hated him for our mother dying, for the poverty and the despair and years lost. Drakon said drily, "I take it you're acquainted?" Our father--gone for months and months with no word. He had left, my sisters had once said, to attend a meeting regarding the threat above the wall. At that meeting, had it become clear that we had been betrayed by our own kind? And had he then departed, under such secrecy he would not risk the messages to us falling into the wrong hands, to find help? For us. For me, and my sisters. Rhys said to Drakon, "Meet Nesta. And my mate, Feyre." Neither of us looked to the prince. Only at our father's fleet --at the ships he'd named in honor of us. "Speaking of Vassa," Rhys said to Drakon, "was her curse --ended?" The human armada and the Hybern host neared, and I knew the impact would be lethal. Saw Hybern's magic shields go up. Saw the Seraphim raise their own. "See for yourself," Drakon said. I blinked at what began to shoot between the human boats. What soared over the water, fast as a shooting star. Spearing for Hybern. Red and gold and white--vibrant as molten metal. I could have sworn Hybern's fleet began to panic as it broke from the lines of the human armada and closed the gap between them. As it spread its wings wide, trailing sparks and embers across the waves, and I realized what--who--now flew at that enemy host. A firebird. Burning as hot and furious as the heart of a forge. Vassa--the lost queen. Rhys kissed away the tears sliding down my own face as that firebird queen slammed into Hybern's fleet. Burning husks of ships were left in her wake. Our father and the human army spread wide. To pick off the others. Rhys said to Drakon, "Get your legion on land." A slim chance--a fool's chance of winning this thing. Or staunching the slaughter. Drakon's eyes went glazed in a way that told me he was conveying orders to someone far away. I wondered if Nephelle and her wife were in that legion--if the last time they had drawn swords was that long-ago battle at the bottom of the sea. Rhys seemed to be thinking of the past, too. Because he muttered to Drakon over the din exploding off the sea and the battle below, "Jurian is here." The casual, cocky grace of the prince vanished. Cold rage hardened his features into something terrifying. And his brown eyes ... they went wholly black. "He fights for us." Drakon didn't look convinced, but he nodded. He jerked his chin to Cassian. "I assume you're Cassian." The general's chin dipped. I could already see the shadows in his eyes--at the loss of those soldiers. "My legion is yours. Command them as you like." Cassian scanned our foundering host, the northern flank that Azriel was reassembling, and gave Drakon a few terse orders. Drakon flapped those white wings, so stark against his honey-brown skin, and said to Rhys, "Miryam's furious with you, by the way. Three hundred fifty-one years since you last visited. If we survive, expect to do some groveling." Rhys rasped a laugh. "Tell that witch it goes both ways." Drakon grinned, and with a powerful sweep of his wings, he was gone. Rhys and Cassian looked after him, then at the armadas now engaged in outright bloodshed. Our father was down there--our father, who I had never seen wield a weapon in his life-- The firebird rained hell upon the ships. Literally. Burning, molten hell as she slammed into them and sent their panicking soldiers to the bottom of the sea. "Now," I said to Rhys. "Amren and I need to go now." The chaos was complete. With a battle raging in every direction ... Amren and I could make it. Perhaps the king would be preoccupied. Rhys made to shoot me back down to the ground, where Amren and Elain were still waiting. Nesta said, "Wait." Rhys obeyed. Nesta stared toward that armada, toward our father fighting in it. "Use me. As bait." I blinked at the same moment Cassian said, "No." Nesta ignored him. "The king is probably waiting beside that Cauldron. Even if you get there, you'll have him to contend with. Draw him out. Draw him far away. To me." "How," Rhys said softly. "It goes both ways," Nesta murmured, as if my mate's words moments before had triggered the idea. "He doesn't know how much I took. And if ... if I make it seem like I'm about to use his power ... He'll come running. Just to kill me." "He will kill you," Cassian snarled. Her hand clenched on his arm. "That's--that's where you come in." To guard her. Protect her. To lay a trap for the king. "No," Rhys said. Nesta snorted. "You're not my High Lord. I may do as I wish. And since he'll sense that you're with me ... You need to go far away, too." Rhys said to Cassian, "I'm not letting you throw your life away for this." I was inclined to agree. Cassian surveyed the depleted Illyrian lines, now holding strong as Azriel rallied them. "Az has control of the lines." "I said no," Rhys snapped. I'd never heard him use that tone with Cassian, with any of them. Cassian said steadily, "It's the only shot we have of a diversion. Luring him away from that Cauldron." His hands tightened on Nesta. "You gave everything, Rhys. You went through that hell for us, for fifty years." He'd never addressed it--not fully. "You think I don't know what happened? I know, Rhys. We all do. And we know you did it to save us, spare us." He shook his head, sunlight glinting off that dark, winged helmet. "Let us return the favor. Let us repay the debt." "There is no debt to repay." Rhys's voice broke. The sound of it cracked my heart. Cassian's own voice broke as he said, "I never got to repay your mother--for her kindness. Let me do it this way. Let me buy you time." "I can't." I wasn't sure if in the entire history of Illyria, there had ever been such a discussion. "You can," Cassian said gently. "You can, Rhys." He gave a lazy grin. "Save some of the glory for the rest of us." "Cassian--" But Cassian asked Nesta, "Do you have what you need?" Nesta nodded. "Amren showed me enough. What to do to rally the power to me." And if Amren and I could control the Cauldron between us ... That distraction they'd offer ... Nesta looked down to Elain--our sister monitoring the bloodbath ahead. Then to me. She said quietly, "Tell Father-- thank you." She wrapped her arms tightly around Cassian, those gray- blue eyes bright, then they were gone. Rhys's body strained with the effort of not going after them as they soared for a copse of trees far behind the battlefield. "He might survive," I said softly. "No," Rhys said, flying us down to Amren and Elain. "He won't." I had Rhys move Elain to the farthest reaches of our camp. And when he returned, my mate only pressed a kiss to my mouth before he took to the skies, spearing for the heart of the battle--the heaviest fighting. I could barely stand to look--to see where he landed. Alone with Amren, she said to me, "Shield us from sight, and run as fast as you can. Don't stop; try not to kill. It' leave a trail." I nodded, checking my weapons. The Seraphim were soaring overhead now, wings bright as the sun on snow. I settled a glamour around us, veiling us and muffling our sounds. "Quickly," Amren repeated, silver eyes churning like thunderclouds. "Don't look back." So I didn't. <|title|>Chapter 73 <|startofchapter|>The Cauldron had been nestled in a craggy overlook. The Weaver had done her job well. Key guards and posts were little more than wet, red piles of bone and sinew. And I knew that when I saw her again ... she would be even more blindingly beautiful. Amren's power flared again and again, breaking through wards in our path until we reached Stryga's wake. Whatever spells the king had laid ... Amren was prepared for them. Hungry for them. She shattered them all with a savage smile. But the gray hill was crawling with Hybern commanders, content to let their underlings fight. Waiting until the killing field had sorted the grunts from the true warriors. I could hear them hissing about who on our side they wanted to personally take on. Helion and Tarquin were two of the most frequent wishes. Tamlin was the other. Tamlin, for his two-faced lying. And Jurian. How they would suffer. Varian. Azriel. Cassian. Kallias and Viviane. Mor. They said the names of my friends like they were horses at a race. Who would last long enough for them to face off. Who would haul the pretty mate of the Lord of Winter back here. Who would break the Morrigan at last. Who would bring home Illyrian wings to pin on the wall. My blood was boiling, even as my bones quaked. I hoped Bryaxis devoured them all--and made them wet themselves in terror before it did. But I dared look behind us once. Mor and Viviane weren't coming to this camp anytime soon. They held off an entire cluster of Hybern soldiers, flanked by that white-haired female I'd seen in the Winter camp and a unit of those mighty bears that shredded apart soldiers with swipes of their enormous paws. Amren hissed in warning, and I faced forward as we began to scale the quiet side of the gray hill. No sign of Stryga, though she had stopped here, at the base of the hill atop which the Cauldron squatted. I could already feel its terrible presence --the beckoning. Amren and I climbed slowly. Listening after every step. The battle raged behind us. In the skies and on the earth and in the sea. I did not think ... even with Drakon and the human army ... I did not think it was going well. My hands bit into the sharp gray rock of the hill's cliff face, body straining as I hauled myself up, Amren climbing with ease. Nesta had to lure the king away soon, or we'd be face-to- face with him. Movement at the base of the rock caught my attention. I went still as death. A beautiful, dark-haired young woman stood there. Staring up at us, squinting and sniffing. A smile bloomed on her red--her bloody mouth. She smiled in my general direction. Revealing blood-coated teeth. Stryga. The Weaver had waited. Hiding here. Until we arrived. She brushed a snow-white hand over the tattoo of a crescent moon now on her forearm. Rhys's bargain-mark. A reminder --and warning. To go. To hurry. She faced the rocky path half-visible to our left, Ianthe's jewel splattered with blood where it sat atop her head. Strode right to the guards stationed there, who we'd been climbing the cliff face to avoid. Some of them jolted. Stryga smiled once--a hateful, awful smile--and leaped upon them. A diversion. Amren shuddered, but we launched into motion once more. The guards were focused on her slaughtering, sprinting from their posts up the hill to meet her. Faster--we didn't have much time. I could feel the Cauldron rallying-- No. Not the Cauldron. That power ... it came from behind. Nesta. "Good girl," Amren muttered under her breath. Just before she grabbed me by the back of my jacket and slammed me face-first into the stone, ducking low. Right as a pair of boots strolled down the narrow path. I knew the sound of his footsteps. They haunted my dreams. The King of Hybern walked right past us. Focused on Stryga, on Nesta's distant rumble of power. The Weaver paused as she beheld who approached. Smiled, blood dripping off her chin. "How beautiful you are," he murmured, his voice a seductive croon. "How magnificent, ancient one." She brushed her dark hair over a slim shoulder. "You may bow, king. As it was once done." The King of Hybern walked right up to her. Smiled down at Stryga's exquisite face. Then he took that face in his broad hands, faster than she could move, and snapped her neck. It might not have killed her. The Weaver was a death-god-- her very existence defied our own. So it might not have killed her, that cracking of her spine. Had the king not tossed her body down to the two naga-hounds snarling at the foot of the hill. They ripped into the Weaver's limp body without hesitation. Even Amren let out a sound of dismay. But the king was staring northward. Toward Nesta. That power--her power--surged again. Beckoning, as the Cauldron atop this rock now called to me. He gazed toward the sea--the battle raging there. I could have sworn he was smiling as he winnowed away. "Now," Amren breathed. I couldn't move. Cassian and Nesta--even Rhys thought there was no shot of survival. "You make it count," Amren snapped, and that was true grief shining in her eyes. She knew what was about to happen. The window that we'd been bought. I swallowed my despair, my terror, and charged up the hill --to the crag. To where the Cauldron sat. Unguarded. Waiting for us. The Book appeared in Amren's small hands. The Cauldron was nearly as tall as she was. A looming black pit of hate and power. I could stop this. Right now. Stop this army--and the king before he killed Nesta and Cassian. Amren opened the Book. Looked at me expectantly. "Put your hand on the Cauldron," she said quietly. I obeyed. The Cauldron's endless power slammed into me, a wave threatening to sweep me under, a storm with no end. I could barely keep one foot in this world, barely remember my name. I clung to what I had seen in the Ouroboros--clung to every reflection and memory I had faced and owned, the good and wicked and the gray. Who I was, who I was, who I was-- Amren watched me for a long moment. And did not read from the Book. Did not put it in my hands. She shut the gold pages and shoved it behind her with a kick. Amren had lied. She did not plan to leash the king or his army with the Cauldron and the Book. And whatever trap she had set ... I had fallen right into it. <|title|>Chapter 74 <|startofchapter|>I gripped my sense of self in the face of the black maw of the Cauldron. Gripped it with everything I had. Amren only said, "I'm sorry I lied to you." I could not remove my hand. Could not pry my fingers away. I was being shredded apart, slowly, thoroughly. I flung my magic out, desperate for any chain to this world to save me, keep me from being devoured by the eternal, awful thing that now tried to drag me into its embrace. Fire and water and light and wind and ice and night. All rallied. All failed me. Some tether slipped, and my mind slid closer to the Cauldron's outstretched arms. I felt it touch me. And then I was half gone. Half there, standing silently next to the Cauldron, hand glued to the black rim. Half ... elsewhere. Flying through the world. Searching. The Cauldron now hunted for that power that had come so close ... And now taunted it. Nesta. The Cauldron searched for her, searched for her as the king now sought her. It skimmed across the battlefield like an insect over the surface of a pond. We were losing. Badly. Seraphim and Illyrians were bloodied and being hauled out of the sky. Azriel had been forced to the ground, his wings dragging in the bloody mud as he fought sword to sword against the endless onslaught. Our foot soldiers had broken the lines in places, Keir screaming at his Darkbringers to get back into position, plumes of shadows flaring from him. I saw Rhysand. In the thick of those breaking lines. Blood- splattered, fighting beautifully. I saw him assess the field ahead--and transform. The talons came first. Replacing fingers and feet. Then dark scales or perhaps feathers, I couldn't get a look at them, covered his legs, his arms, his chest. His body contorted, bones and muscles growing and shifting. The beast form Rhys had kept hidden. Never liked to unleash. Unless it was dire enough to do so. Before the Cauldron swept me away, I beheld what happened to his head, his face. It was a thing of nightmares. Nothing human or Fae in it. It was a creature that lived in black pits and only emerged at night to hunt and feast. The face ... it was those creatures that had been carved into the rock of the Court of Nightmares. That made up his throne. The throne not only a representation of his power ... but of what lurked within. And with the wings ... Hybern soldiers began fleeing. Helion beheld what happened and ran, too--but toward Rhys. Shifting as well. If Rhys was a flying terror crafted from shadows and cold moonlight, Helion was his daytime equivalent. Gold feathers and shredding claws and feathered wings-- Together, my mate and the High Lord of Day unleashed themselves upon Hybern. Until they paused. Until a slim, short male walked out of the ranks toward them--one of Hybern's commanders, no doubt. Rhys's snarl shook the earth. But it was Helion, glowing with white light, who stepped forward to face the male, claws sinking deep into the mud. The commander didn't so much as wear a sword. Only fine gray clothes and a vaguely amused expression on his face. Amethyst light swirled around him. Helion growled at Rhys-- an order. And my mate nodded, gore dripping from his maw, before he lunged back into the fray. Leaving the commander and Helion Spell-Cleaver to go head-to-head. Spell to spell. Soldiers on either side began fleeing. But the Cauldron whipped me away as Helion unleashed a blast of light toward the commander, its quarry not to be found on that battlefield. Come, Nesta's power seemed to sing. Come. The Cauldron caught her scent and hurtled us onward. We arrived before the king did. The Cauldron seemed to skid to a halt at the clearing. Seemed to coil and reel back, a snake poised to strike. Nesta and Cassian stood there, his sword out, Nesta's eyes blazing with that inner, unholy fire. "Get ready," she breathed. "He's coming." The power Nesta was holding back ... She'd kill the King of Hybern. Cassian was the distraction--while her blow found its mark. Time seemed to slow and warp. The dark power of the king speared toward us. Toward that clearing where I was neither seen nor heard, where I was nothing but a scrap of soul carried on a black wind. The King of Hybern winnowed right in front of them. Nesta's power rallied--then vanished. Cassian did not move. Did not dare. For the King of Hybern held my father before him, a sword to his throat. That was why he had looked to the sea. He'd known Nesta would land that killing blow the moment he appeared, and the only way to stop it ... A human shield. One she'd think twice about allowing to die. Our father was blood-splattered, leaner than the last time I'd seen him. "Nesta," he breathed, noting the ears, the Fae grace. The power sputtering out in her eyes. The king smiled. "What a loving father--to bring an entire army to save his daughters." Nesta did not say anything. Cassian's attention darted through the clearing, sizing up every advantage, every angle. Save him, I begged the Cauldron of my father. Help him. The Cauldron did not answer. It had no voice, no consciousness save some base need to take back that which had been stolen. The King of Hybern tilted his head to peer at my father's bearded and weather-tanned face. "So many things have changed since you were last home. Three daughters, now Fae. One of them married quite well." My father only gazed at my sister. Ignored the monster behind him and said to her, "I loved you from the first moment I held you in my arms. And I am ... I am so sorry, Nesta--my Nesta. I am so sorry, for all of it." "Please," Nesta said to the king. Her only word, guttural and hoarse. "Please." "What will you give me, Nesta Archeron?" Nesta stared and stared at my father, who was shaking his head. Cassian's hand twitched, the blade rising. Trying to get a good shot. "Will you give back what you took?" "Yes." "Even if I have to carve it out of you?" Our father snarled, "Don't you lay your filthy hands on my daughter--" I heard the crack before I realized what happened. Before I saw the way my father's head twisted. Saw the light freeze in his eyes. Nesta made no sound. Showed no reaction as the King of Hybern snapped our father's neck. I began screaming. Screaming and thrashing inside the Cauldron's grip. Begging it to stop it--to bring him back, to end it-- Nesta looked down at my father's body as it crumpled to the forest floor. And as the king had predicted ... Nesta's power flickered out. But Cassian's had not. Arrows of blinding red shot for the King of Hybern, a shield locking around Nesta as Cassian launched himself forward. And as Cassian took on the king, who laughed and seemed willing to engage in a bit of swordplay ... I stared at my father on that ground. At his open, unseeing eyes. Cassian pushed the king away from my father's body, swords and magics clashing. Not for long. Only long enough to hold him off--for Nesta to perhaps run. For me to finish what I had let my family give their lives for. But the Cauldron still held me there. Even as I tried to come back to that hill where Amren had betrayed me, had used me for whatever purpose of her own-- Nesta knelt before our father, her face a void. She gazed into his still-open eyes. Closed them gently. Hands steady as stone. Cassian had shoved the king deeper into the trees. His shouts rang out. Nesta leaned forward to press a kiss to our father's blood- splattered brow. And when she lifted her head ... The Cauldron thrashed and roiled. For in Nesta's eyes, limning her skin ... Uncut power. She gazed toward the king and Cassian. Just as Cassian's bark of pain cut toward us. The power around her shuddered. Nesta got to her feet. Then Cassian screamed. I looked toward him. Away from my father. Not twenty feet away, Cassian was on the ground. Wings-- snapped in spots. Blood leaking from them. Bone jutted from his thigh. His Siphons were dull. Empty. He'd already drained them before coming here. Was exhausted. But he had come--for her. For us. He was panting, blood dribbling from his nose. Arms buckling as he tried to rise. The King of Hybern stood over him, and extended a hand. Cassian arched off the ground, bellowing in pain. A bone cracked somewhere in his body. "Stop." The king looked over a shoulder as Nesta stepped forward. Cassian mouthed at her to run, blood escaping from his lips and onto the moss beneath him. Nesta took in his broken body, the pain in Cassian's eyes, and angled her head. The movement was not human. Not Fae. Purely animal. Purely predator. And when her eyes lifted to the king again ... "I am going to kill you," she said quietly. "Really?" the king asked, lifting a brow. "Because I can think of far more interesting things to do with you." Not again. I could not watch this play out again. Standing by, idle, while those I loved suffered. The Cauldron crept along with Nesta, a hound at her side. Nesta's fingers curled. The king snorted. And brought his foot down upon Cassian's nearest wing. Bone snapped. And his scream-- I thrashed against the Cauldron's grip. Thrashed and clawed. Nesta exploded. All of that power, all at once-- The king winnowed out of the way. Her power blasted the trees behind him to cinders. Blasted across the battlefield in a low arc, then landed right in the Hybern ranks. Taking out hundreds before they knew what happened. The king appeared perhaps thirty feet away and laughed at the smoking ruins behind him. "Magnificent," he said. "Barely trained, brash, but magnificent." Nesta's fingers curled again, as if rallying that power. But she'd spent it all in one blow. Her eyes were blue-gray once more. "Go," Cassian managed to breathe. "Go." "This seems familiar," the king mused. "Was it him or the other bastard who crawled toward you that day?" Cassian was indeed now crawling toward her, broken wings and leg dragging, leaving a trail of blood over the grass and roots. Nesta rushed to him, kneeling. Not to comfort. But to pick up his Illyrian blade. Cassian tried to stop her as she stood. As Nesta lifted that sword before the King of Hybern. She said nothing. Only held her ground. The king chuckled and angled his own blade. "Shall I see what the Illyrians taught you?" He was upon her before she could lift the sword higher. Nesta jumped back, clipping his sword with her own, eyes flaring wide. The king lunged again, and Nesta again dodged and retreated through the trees. Leading him away--away from Cassian. She managed to draw him another few feet before the king grew bored. In two movements, he had her disarmed. In another, he struck her across the face, so hard she went down. Cassian cried out her name, trying again to crawl to her. The king only sheathed his sword, towering over her as she pushed off the ground. "Well? What else do you have?" Nesta turned over, and threw out a hand. White, burning power shot out of her palm and slammed into his chest. A ploy. To get him close. To lower his guard. Her power sent him flying back, trees snapping under him. One after another after another. The Cauldron seemed to settle. All that was left--that was it. All that was left of her power. Nesta surged to her feet, staggering across the clearing, blood at her mouth from where he'd hit her, and threw herself to her knees before Cassian. "Get up," she sobbed, hauling at his shoulder. "Get up." He tried--and failed. "You're too heavy," she pleaded, but still tried to raise him, fingers scrabbling in his black, bloodied armor. "I can't--he's coming--" "Go," Cassian groaned. Her power had stopped hurling the king across the forest. He now stalked toward them, brushing off splinters and leaves from his jacket--taking his time. Knowing she would not leave. Savoring the awaiting slaughter. Nesta gritted her teeth, trying to haul Cassian up once more. A broken sound of pain ripped from him. "Go! " he barked at her. "I can't," she breathed, voice breaking. "I can t." The same words Rhys had given him. Cassian grunted in pain, but lifted his bloodied hands--to cup her face. "I have no regrets in my life, but this." His voice shook with every word. "That we did not have time. That I did not have time with you, Nesta." She didn't stop him as he leaned up and kissed her--lightly. As much as he could manage. Cassian said softly, brushing away the tear that streaked down her face, "I will find you again in the next world--the next life. And we will have that time. I promise." The King of Hybern stepped into that clearing, dark power wafting from his fingertips. And even the Cauldron seemed to pause in surprise-- surprise or some ... feeling as Nesta looked at the king with death twining around his hands, then down at Cassian. And covered Cassian's body with her own. Cassian went still--then his hand slid over her back. Together. They'd go together. I will offer you a bargain, I said to the Cauldron. I will offer you my soul. Save them. "Romantic," the king said, "but ill-advised." Nesta did not move from where she shielded Cassian's body. The king raised his hand, power whirling like a dark galaxy in his palm. I knew they'd both die the moment that power hit them. Anything, I begged the Cauldron. Anything-- The king's hand began to drop. And then halted. A choking noise came out of him. For a moment, I thought the Cauldron had answered my pleas. But as a black blade broke through the king's throat, spraying blood, I realized someone else had. Elain stepped out of a shadow behind him, and rammed Truth-Teller to the hilt through the back of the king's neck as she snarled in his ear, "Don't you touch my sister." <|title|>Chapter 75 <|startofchapter|>The Cauldron purred in Elain's presence as the King of Hybern slumped to his knees, clawing at the knife jutting through his throat. Elain backed away a step. Choking, blood dribbling from his lips, the king gaped at Nesta. My sister lunged to her feet. Not to go to Elain. But to the king. Nesta wrapped her hand around Truth-Teller's obsidian hilt. And slowly, as if savoring every bit of effort it took ... Nesta began to twist the blade. Not a rotation of the blade itself--but a rotation into his neck. Elain rushed to Cassian, but the warrior was panting-- smiling grimly and panting--as Nesta twisted and twisted the blade into the king's neck. Severing flesh and bone and tendon. Nesta looked down at the king before she made the final pass, his hands still trying to rise, to claw the blade free. And in Nesta's eyes ... it was the same look, the same gleam that she'd had that day in Hybern. When she pointed her finger at him in a death-promise. She smiled a little--as if she remembered, too. And then she pushed the blade, like a worker heaving the spoke of a mighty, grinding wheel. The king's eyes flared--then his head tumbled off his shoulders. "Nesta," Cassian groaned, trying to reach for her. The king's blood sprayed her leathers, her face. Nesta didn't seem to care as she bent over. As she took up his fallen head and lifted it. Lifted it in the air and stared at it --into Hybern's dead eyes, his gaping mouth. She did not smile. She only stared and stared and stared. Savage. Unyielding. Brutal. "Nesta," Elain whispered. Nesta blinked, and seemed to realize it, then--whose head she was holding. What she and Elain had done. The king's head rolled from her bloodied hands. The Cauldron seemed to realize what she'd done, too, as his head thumped onto the mossy ground. That Elain ... Elain had defended this thief. Elain, who it had gifted with such powers, found her so lovely it had wanted to give her something ... It would not harm Elain, even in its hunt to reclaim what had been taken. It retreated the moment Elain's eyes fell on our dead father lying in the adjacent clearing. The moment the scream came out of her. No. I lunged for them, but the Cauldron was too fast. Too strong. It whipped me back, back, back--across the battlefield. No one seemed to know the king was dead. And our armies Rhys and the other High Lords had given themselves wholly to the monsters that lurked under their skins, swaths of enemy soldiers dying in their wake, shredded or gutted or rent in two. And Helion-- The High Lord of Day was bloodied, his golden fur singed and torn, but he still battled against the Hybern commander. The commander remained unmarred. His face unruffled. As if he knew--he might very well win against Helion Spell- Cleaver today. We arced away, across the field. To Bryaxis--still fighting. Holding the line for Graysen's men. A black cloud that cut a path for them, shielded them. Bryaxis, Fear itself, guarding the mortals. We passed Drakon and a black-haired woman with skin like dark honey, both squaring off against-- Jurian. They were fighting Jurian. Drakon had an ancient score to settle--and so did Miryam. We whisked by so quickly I couldn't hear what was said, couldn't see if Jurian was indeed fighting back or trying to fend them off while he explained. Mor joined the fray, bloodied and limping, shouting at them--it was the least of our problems. Because our armies ... Hybern was overwhelming us. Without the king, without the Cauldron, they'd still do it. The fervor the king had roused in them, their belief that they had been wronged and forgotten ... They'd keep fighting. No solution would ever appease them beyond the complete reclaiming of what they still believed they were entitled to--deserved. There were too many. So many. And we were all drained. The Cauldron hurtled away, withdrawing toward itself. There was a roar of pain--a roar I recognized, even with the different, harrowing form. Rhys. Rhys-- He was faltering, he needed help-- The Cauldron sucked back into itself, and I was again atop that rock. Again staring at Amren, who was slapping my face, shouting my name. "Stupid girl," she barked. "Fight it!" Rhys was hurt. Rhys was being overwhelmed-- I snapped back into my body. My hand remained atop the Cauldron. A living bond. But with the Cauldron settled into itself ... I blinked. I could blink. Amren blew out a breath. "What in hell--" "The king is dead," I said, my voice cold and foreign. "And you're going to be soon, too." I'd kill her for this, for betraying us for whatever reason-- "I know," Amren said quietly. "And I need you to help me do it." I almost let go of the Cauldron at the words, but she shook her head. "Don't break it--the contact. I need you to be ... a conduit." "I don't understand." "The Suriel--it gave you a message. For me. Only me." My brows narrowed. Amren said, "The answer in the Book was no spell of control. I lied about that. It was ... an unbinding spell. For me. "What?" Amren looked to the carnage, the screams of the dying ringing us. "I thought I'd need your sisters to help you control the Cauldron, but after you faced the Ouroboros ... I knew you could do it. Just you. And just me. Because when you unbind me with the Cauldron's power, in my real form ... I will wipe that army away. Every last one of them." "Amren--" But a male voice pleaded from behind, "Don t." Varian appeared from the rocky path, gasping for breath, splattered with blood. Amren smirked. "Like a hound on a scent." "Don't," was all Varian said. "Unleash me," Amren said, ignoring him. "Let me end this." I began shaking my head. "You--you will be gone. You said you won't remember us, won't be you anymore if you're freed." Amren smiled slightly--at me, at Varian. "I watched them for so many eons. Humans--in my world, there were humans, too. And I watched them love, and hate--wage senseless war and find precious peace. Watched them build lives, build worlds. I was ... I was never allowed such things. I had not been designed that way, had not been ordered to do so. So I watched. And that day I came here ... it was the first selfish thing I had done. For a long, long while I thought it was punishment for disobeying my Father's orders, for wanting. I thought this world was some hell he'd locked me into for disobedience." Amren swallowed. "But I think ... I wonder if my Father knew. If he saw how I watched them love and hate and build, and opened that rip in the world not as punishment ... but as a gift." Her eyes gleamed. "For it has been a gift. This time--with you. With all of you. It has been a gift." "Amren," Varian said, and sank onto his knees. "I am begging you--" "Tell the High Lord," she said softly, "to leave out a cup for me. I did not think I had it in my heart for another ounce of sorrow. I gripped the Cauldron a little harder my throat thick. "I will." She looked to Varian, a wry smile on her red mouth. "I watched them most--the humans who loved. I never understood it--how it happened. Why it happened." She paused a step away from the Cauldron. "I think I might have learned with you, though. Perhaps that was a last gift, too." Varian's face twisted with anguish. But he made no further move to stop her. She turned to me. And spoke the words into my head--the spell I must think and feel and do. I nodded. "When I am free," Amren said to us, "do not run. It will attract my attention." She lifted a steady hand toward my arm. "I am glad we met, Feyre." I smiled at her, bowing my head. "Me too, Amren. Me too." Amren grabbed my wrist. And swung herself into the Cauldron. I fought. I fought with every breath to get through the spell, my arm half-submerged in the Cauldron as Amren went under the dark water that had filled it. I said the words with my tongue, said them with my heart and blood and bones. Screamed them. Her hand vanished from my arm, melting away like dew under the morning sun. The spell ended, shuddering out of me, and I snapped back, losing my hold on the Cauldron. Varian caught me before I fell, and gripped me hard as we gazed at the black mass of the Cauldron, the still surface. He breathed, "Is she--" It started far, far beneath us. As if she had gone to the earth's core. I let Varian haul me a few steps away as the ripple thundered up through the ground, spearing for us, the Cauldron. We had only enough time to throw ourselves behind the nearest rock when it hit us. The Cauldron shattered into three pieces, peeling apart like a blossoming flower--and then she came. She exploded from that mortal shell, light blinding us. Light and fire. She was roaring--in victory and rage and pain. And I could have sworn I saw great, burning wings, each feather a simmering ember, spread wide. Could have sworn a crown of incandescent light floated just above her flaming hair. She paused. The thing that was inside Amren paused. Looked at us--at the battlefield and all of our friends, our family still fighting on it. As if to say, I remember you. And then she was gone. She spread those wings, flame and light rippling to encompass her, no more than a burning behemoth that swept down upon Hybern's armies. They began running. Amren came down on them like a hammer, raining fire and brimstone. She swept through them, burning them, drinking in their death. Some died at the mere whisper of her passing. I heard Rhys bellowing--and the sound was the same as hers. Victory and rage and pain. And warning. A warning not to run from her. Bit by bit, she destroyed that endless Hybern army. Bit by bit, she wiped away their taint, their threat. The suffering they had brought. She shattered through that Hybern commander, poised to strike Helion a deathblow. Shattered through that commander as if he were made of glass. She left only ashes behind. But that power--it was fading. Vanishing ember by ember. Yet Amren went to the sea, where my father and Vassa's army battled alongside Miryam's people. Entire boats full of Hybern soldiers fell still after she passed. As if she had inhaled the life right out of them. Even while her own life sputtered out. Amren reached the final boat--the very last ship of our enemy--and was no more than a flame on the breeze. And when that ship, too, fell silent ... There was only light. Bright, clean light, dancing on the waves. <|title|>Chapter 76 <|startofchapter|>Tears slid down Varian's blood-flecked skin as we watched that spot on the sea where Amren had vanished. Below, beyond, our forces were beginning to cry out with victory--with joy. Up on the rock ... utter quiet. I looked at last toward the broken thirds of the Cauldron. Perhaps I had done it. In unbinding her, I had unbound the Cauldron. Or perhaps Amren in her unleashed power ... even that had been too great for the Cauldron. "We should go," I said to Varian. The others would be looking for us. I had to get my father. Had to bury him. Help Cassian. Had to see who else was among the dead--or living. Hollow--I was so tired and hollow. I managed to stand. To take one step before I felt it. The ... thing in the Cauldron. Or lack of it. It was lack and substance, absence and presence. And ... it was leaking into the world. I dared a step toward it. And what I beheld in those ruins of the Cauldron ... It was a void. But also not a void--a growth. It did not belong here. Belong anywhere. There were hands at my face, turning me, touching me. "Are you hurt, are you--" Rhys's face was battered--bloody. His hands were still tipped in talons, his canines still elongated. Barely out of that beast form. "You--you freed her--" He was stammering. Shaking. I wasn't entirely sure how he was even standing. I didn't know where to begin. How to explain. I let him into my mind, his presence gentle--and as exhausted as I was, I let him see my father. Nesta and Cassian. The king. And Amren. All of it. Including that thing behind us. That hole. Rhys folded me into his arms--just for a moment. "We have a problem," Varian murmured, pointing behind us. We followed the line of his finger. To where that fissure in the world within the shards of the Cauldron ... It was growing. The Cauldron could never be destroyed, we had been warned. Because our very world was bound to it. If the Cauldron were destroyed ... we would be, too. "What have I done," I breathed. I had saved our friends-- only to damn us all. Made. Made and un-Made. I had broken it. I could remake it again. I ran for the Book, flinging open the pages. But the gold was engraved with symbols only one being on this earth knew how to read, and she was gone. I hurled the damn thing into the void inside the Cauldron. It vanished and did not appear again. "Well, that's one way to try," Rhys said. I whirled at the humor, but his face was hard. Grim. "I don't know what to do," I whispered. Rhys studied the ruins. "Amren said you were a conduit." I nodded. "So be one again." "What?" He looked at me like I was the insane one as he said, "Remake the Cauldron. Forge it anew." "With what power?" "My own." "You're--you're drained, Rhys. So am I. We all are." "Try. Humor me." I blinked, that edge of panic dulling a bit. Yes--yes, with him, with my mate ... I thought through the spell Amren had shown me. If I changed one small thing ... It was a gamble. But it might work. "Better than nothing," I said, blowing out a breath. "That's the spirit." Humor danced in his eyes. The dead lay around us for miles, cries of the wounded and grieving starting to rise up, but ... We had stopped Hybern. Stopped the king. Perhaps in this ... in this we would be lucky, too. I reached for him--with my hand, my mind. His shields were up--solid walls he'd erected during battle. I brushed a hand along one, but it remained. Rhys smiled down at me, kissed me once. "Remind me to never get on Nesta's bad side." That he could even joke--no, it was a form of enduring. For both of us. Because the alternative to laughter ... Varian's devastated face, watching us silently, was the alternative. And with this thing before us, this final task ... So I managed a laugh. And I was still smiling, just a bit, when I again laid my hand on the broken shards of the Cauldron. It was a hole. Airless. No life could exist here. No light. It was ... it was what had existed at the beginning. Before all things had exploded from it. It did not belong here. Maybe one day, when the earth had grown old and died, when the stars had vanished, too ... maybe then, we would return to this place. Not today. Not now. I was both form and nothing. And behind me ... Rhys's power was a tether. An unending lightning strike that surged from me into this ... place. To be shaped as I willed it. Made and un-Made. From a distant corner of my memory, my human mind ... I remembered a mural I had seen at the Spring Court. Tucked away in a dusty, unused library. It told the story of Prythian. It told the story of a Cauldron. This Cauldron. And when it was held by female hands ... All life flowed from it. I reached mine out, Rhys's power rippling through me. United. Joined as one. Ask and answer. I was not afraid. Not with him there. I cupped my hands as if the cracked thirds of the Cauldron could fit into them. The entire universe into the palm of my hand. I began to speak that last spell Amren had found us. Speak and think and feel it. Word and breath and blood. Rhys's power flowed through me, out of me. The Cauldron appeared. Light danced along the fissures where the broken thirds had come together. There--there I would need to forge. To weld. To bind. I put a hand against the side of the Cauldron. Raw, brutal power cascaded out of me. I leaned back into him, unafraid of that power, of the male who held me. It flowed and flowed, a burst dam of night. The cracks fizzled and blurred. That void began to slither back in. More. We needed more. He gave it to me. Rhys handed over everything. I was a bearer, a vessel, a link. I love you, he whispered into my mind. I only leaned back into him, savoring his warmth, even in this non-place. Power shuddered through him. Wrapped around the Cauldron. I recited the spell over and over and over. The first crack healed. Then the second. I felt him tremble behind me, heard his wet rasp of breath. I tried to turn-- I love you, he said again. The third and final crack began to heal over. His power began to sputter. But it kept flowing out. I threw mine into it, sparks and snow and light and water. Together, we threw everything in. We gave every last drop. Until that Cauldron was whole. Until the thing it contained ... it was in there. Locked away. Until I could feel the sun again warming my face. And saw that Cauldron squatting before me--beneath my hand. I eased my fingers from the icy iron rim. Gazed down into the inky depths. No cracks. Whole. I loosed a shuddering breath. We had done it. We had done I turned. It took me a moment to grasp it. What I saw. Rhys was sprawled on the rocky ground, wings draped behind him. He looked like he was sleeping. But as I breathed in-- It wasn't there. That thing that rose and fell with each breath. That echoed each heartbeat. The mating bond. It wasn't there. It was gone. Because his own chest ... it was not moving. And Rhys was dead. <|title|>Chapter 77 <|startofchapter|>I had only silence in my head. Only silence, as I began screaming. Screaming and screaming and screaming. The emptiness in my chest, my soul at the lack of that bond, that life-- I was shaking him, screaming his name and shaking him, and my body stopped being my body and just became this thing that held me and this lack of him, and I could not stop screaming and screaming-- Then Mor was there. And Azriel, swaying on his feet, an arm hooked around Cassian--just as bloody and barely standing thanks to the blue, webbed Siphon-patches all over him. Over them both. They were saying things, but all I could hear was that last I love you, which had not been a declaration but a good-bye. And he had known. He had known he had nothing left, and stopping it would take everything. It would cost him everything. He'd kept his shields up so I wouldn't see, because I wouldn't have said yes, I would have rather the world ended than this, this thing he had done and this emptiness where he was, where we were-- Someone was trying to haul me away from him, and I let out a sound that might have been a snarl or another scream, and they let go. I couldn't live with this, couldn't endure this, couldn't breathe-- There were hands--unknown hands on his throat. Touching him-- I lunged for them, but someone held me back. "He's seeing if there's anything to be done," Mor said, voice raw. He--him. Thesan. High Lord of the Dawn. And of healing. I lunged again, to beg him, to plead-- But he shook his head. At Mor. At the others. Tarquin was there. Helion. Panting and battered. "He ..., Helion rasped, then shook his head, closing his eyes. "Of course he did," he said, more to himself than anyone. "Please," I said, and wasn't sure who I was speaking to. My fingers scraped against Rhys's armor, trying to get to the heart beneath. The Cauldron--maybe the Cauldron-- I did not know those spells. How to put him in and make sure he came back out-- Hands wrapped around my own. They were blood- splattered and cut up, but gentle. I tried to pull away, but they held firm as Tarquin knelt beside me and said, "I'm sorry." It was those two words that shattered me. Shattered me in a way I didn't know I could still be broken, a rending of every tether and leash. Stay with the High Lord. The Suriel's last warning. Stay ... and live to see everything righted. A lie. A lie, as Rhys had lied to me. Stay with the High Lord. Stay. For there ... the torn scraps of the mating bond. Floating on a phantom wind inside me. I grasped at them--tugged at them, as if he'd answer. Stay. Stay, stay, stay. I clung to those scraps and remnants, clawing at the void that lurked beyond. Stay. I looked up at Tarquin, lip curling back from my teeth. Looked at Helion. And Thesan. And Beron and Kallias, Viviane weeping at his side. And I snarled, "Bring him back." Blank faces. I screamed at them, "BRING HIM BACK." Nothing. "You did it for me," I said, breathing hard. "Now do it for him. "You were a human," Helion said carefully. "It is not the same--" "I don't care. Do it." When they didn't move, I rallied the dregs of my power, readying to rip into their minds and force them, not caring what rules or laws it broke. I wouldn't care, only if-- Tarquin stepped forward. He slowly extended his hand toward me. "For what he gave," Tarquin said quietly. "Today and for many years before." And as that seed of light appeared in his palm ... I began crying again. Watched it drop onto Rhys's bare throat and vanish into the skin beneath, an echo of light flaring once. Helion stepped forward. That kernel of light in his hand flickered as it fell onto Rhys's skin. Then Kallias. And Thesan. Until only Beron stood there. Mor drew her sword and laid it on his throat. He jerked, having not even seen her move. "I do not mind making one more kill today," she said. Beron gave her a withering glare, but shoved off the sword and strode forward. He practically chucked that fleck of light onto Rhys. I didn't care about that, either. I didn't know the spell, the power it came from. But I was High Lady. I held out my palm. Willing that spark of life to appear. Nothing happened. I took a steadying breath, remembering how it had looked. "Tell me how," I growled to no one. Thesan coughed and stepped forward. Explaining the core of power and on and on and I didn't care, but I listened, until There. Small as a sunflower seed, it appeared in my palm. A bit of me--my life. I laid it gently on Rhys's blood-crusted throat. And I realized, just as he appeared, what was missing. Tamlin stood there, summoned by either the death of a fellow High Lord or one of the others around me. He was splattered in mud and gore, his new bandolier of knives mostly empty. He studied Rhys, lifeless before me. Studied all of us--the palms still out. There was no kindness on his face. No mercy. "Please," was all I said to him. Then Tamlin glanced between us--me and my mate. His face did not change. "Please," I wept. "I will--I will give you anything--" Something shifted in his eyes at that. But not kindness. No emotion at all. I laid my head on Rhysand's chest, listening for any kind of heartbeat through that armor. "Anything," I breathed to no one in particular. "Anything." Steps scuffed on the rocky ground. I braced myself for another set of hands trying to pull me away, and dug my fingers in harder. The steps remained behind me for long enough that I looked. Tamlin stood there. Staring down at me. Those green eyes swimming with some emotion I couldn't place. "Be happy, Feyre," he said quietly. And dropped that final kernel of light onto Rhysand. I had not witnessed it--when it had been done to me. So all I did was hold on to him. To his body, to the tatters of that bond. Stay, I begged. Stay. Light glowed beyond my shut eyelids. Stay. And in the silence ... I began to tell him. About that first night I'd seen him. When I'd heard that voice beckoning me to the hills. When I couldn't resist its summons, and now ... now I wondered if I had heard him calling for me on Calanmai. If it had been his voice that brought me there that night. I told him how I had fallen in love with him--every glance and passed note and croak of laughter he coaxed from me. I told him of everything we'd done, and what it had meant to me, and all that I still wanted to do. All the life still left before us. And in return ... a thud sounded. I opened my eyes. Another thud. And then his chest rose, lifting my head with it. I couldn't move, couldn't breathe -- A hand brushed my back. Then Rhys groaned, "If we're all here, either things went very, very wrong or very right." Cassian's broken laugh cracked out of him. I couldn't lift my head, couldn't do anything but hold him, savoring every heartbeat and breath and the rumble of his voice as Rhys rasped, "You lot will be pleased to know ... My power remains my own. No thieving here." "You do know how to make an entrance," Helion drawled. "Or should I say exit?" "You're horrible," Viviane snapped. "That's not even remotely funny--" I didn't hear what else they said. Rhys sat up, lifting me off him. He brushed away the hair clinging to my damp cheeks. "Stay with the High Lord," he murmured. I hadn't believed it--until I looked into that face. Those star-flecked eyes. Hadn't let myself believe it wasn't anything but some delusion-- "It's real," he said, kissing my brow. "And--there's another surprise." He pointed with a healed hand toward the Cauldron. "Someone fish out dear Amren before she catches a cold." Varian whirled toward us. But Mor was sprinting for the Cauldron, and her cry as she reached in-- "How?" I breathed. Azriel and Varian were there, helping Mor heave a waterlogged form out of the dark water. Her chest rose and fell, her features the same, but ... "She was there," Rhys said. "When the Cauldron was sealing. Going ... wherever we go." Amren sputtered water, vomiting onto the rocky ground. Mor thumped her back, coaxing her through it. "So I reached out a hand," Rhys went on quietly. "To see if she might want to come back." And as Amren opened her eyes, as Varian let out a choked sound of relief and joy-- I knew--what she had given up to come back. High Fae-- and just that. For her silver eyes were solid. Unmoving. No smoke, no burning mist in them. A normal life, no trace of her powers to be seen. And as Amren smiled at me ... I wondered if that had been her last gift. If it all ... if it all had been a gift. <|title|>Chapter 78 <|startofchapter|>Amongst the sprawling field of corpses and wounded, there was one body I wanted to bury. Only Nesta, Elain, and I returned to that clearing, once Azriel had given the all-clear that the battle was well and truly over. Letting Rhys out of my sight to wrangle our scattered armies, sort through the living and dead, and figure out some semblance of order was an effort in self-control. I nearly begged Rhys to come with us, so I didn't have to let go of his hand, which I had not stopped clutching since those moments I'd heard his beautiful, solid heartbeat echoing into his body once more. But this task, this farewell ... I knew, deep down, that it was only for my sisters and me. So I released Rhys's hand, kissing him once, twice, and left him in the war-camp to help Mor haul a barely standing Cassian to the nearest healer. Nesta was watching them when I reached her and Elain at the tree-lined outskirts. Had she done some healing, somehow, in those moments after she'd severed the king's head? Or had it been Cassian's immortal blood and Azriel's battlefield patching that had already healed him enough to manage to stand, even with the wing and leg? I didn't ask my sister, and she supplied no answer as she took the water bucket dangling from Elain's still-bloody hands, and I followed them both through the trees. The King of Hybern's corpse lay in the clearing, crows already picking at it. Nesta spat on it before we approached our father. The crows barely scattered in time. The screams and moaning of the wounded was a distant wall of sound--another world away from the sun-dappled clearing. From the blood still fresh on the moss and grass. I blocked out the coppery tang of it--Cassian's blood, the king's blood, Nesta's blood. Only our father had not bled. He hadn't been given the chance to. And through whatever small mercy of the Mother, the crows hadn't started on him. Elain quietly washed his face. Combed out his hair and beard. Straightened his clothes. She found flowers--somewhere. She laid them at his head, on his chest. We stared down at him in silence. "I love you," Elain whispered, voice breaking. Nesta said nothing, face unreadable. There were such shadows in her eyes. I had not told her what I'd seen--had let them tell me what they wanted. Elain breathed, "Should we--say a prayer?" We did not have such things in the human world, I remembered. My sisters had no prayers to offer him. But in Prythian ... "Mother hold you," I whispered, reciting words I had not heard since that day Under the Mountain. "May you pass through the gates; may you smell that immortal land of milk and honey." Flame ignited at my fingertips. All I could muster. All that was left. "Fear no evil. Feel no pain." My mouth trembled as I breathed, "May you enter eternity." Tears slid down Elain's pallid cheeks as she adjusted an errant flower on our father's chest, white-petaled and delicate, and then backed away to my side with a nod. Nesta's face did not shift as I sent that fire to ignite our father's body. He was ash on the wind in a matter of moments. We stared at the burned slab of earth for long minutes, the sun shifting overhead. Steps crunched on the grass behind us. Nesta whirled, but-- Lucien. It was Lucien. Lucien, haggard and bloody, panting for breath. As if he'd run from the shore. His gaze settled on Elain, and he sagged a little. But Elain only wrapped her arms around herself and remained at my side. "Are you hurt?" he asked, coming toward us. Spying the blood speckling Elain's hands. He halted short as he noticed the King of Hybern's decapitated head on the other side of the clearing. Nesta was still showered with his blood. "Pm fine," Elain said quietly. And then asked, noticing the gore on him, the torn clothes and still-bloody weapons, "Are you--" "Well, I never want to fight in another battle as long as I live, but ... yes, I'm in one piece." A faint smile bloomed on Elain's lips. But Lucien noticed that scorched patch of grass behind us and said, "I heard-- what happened. I'm sorry for your loss. All of you." I just strode to him and threw my arms around his neck, even if it wasn't the embrace he was hoping for. "Thank you-- for coming. With the battle, I mean." "I've got one hell of a story to tell you," he said, squeezing me tightly. "And don't be surprised if Vassa corners you as soon as the ships are sorted. And the sun sets." "Is she really--" "Yes. But your father, ever the negotiator ..." A sad, small smile toward that burnt grass. "He managed to cut a deal with Vassa's keeper to come here. Temporarily, but ... better than nothing. But yes--queen by night, firebird by day." He blew out a breath. "Nasty curse." "The human queens are still out there," I said. Maybe I'd hunt them down. "Not for long--not if Vassa has anything to do with it." "You sound like an acolyte." Lucien blushed, glancing at Elain. "She's got a foul temper and a fouler mouth." He cut me a wry look. "You'll get along just fine." I nudged him in the ribs. But Lucien again looked at that singed grass, and his blood- splattered face turned solemn. "He was a good man," he said. "He loved you all very much." I nodded, unable to form the words. The thoughts. Nesta didn't so much as blink to indicate she'd heard. Elain just wrapped her arms tighter around herself, a few more tears streaking free. I spared Lucien the torment of debating whether to touch her, and linked my arm through his as I began to walk away, letting my sisters decide to follow or remain--if they wanted a moment alone with that burnt grass. Elain came. Nesta stayed. Elain fell into step beside me, peering at Lucien. He noticed it. "I heard you made the killing blow," he said. Elain studied the trees ahead. "Nesta did. I just stabbed him. Lucien seemed to fumble for a response, but I said to him, "So where now? Off with Vassa?" I wondered if he'd heard of Tamlin's role--the help he'd given us. A look at my friend showed me he had. Someone, perhaps my mate, had informed him. Lucien shrugged. "First--here. To help. Then ..." Another glance at Elain. "Who knows?" I nudged Elain, who blinked at me, then blurted, "You could come to Velaris." He saw all of it, but nodded graciously. "It would be my pleasure." As we strode back to the camp, Lucien told us of his time away--how he'd hunted for Vassa, how he'd found her already with my father, an army marching westward. How Miryam and Drakon had found them on their own journey to help us. I was still mulling over all he said when I slipped into my tent to finally change out of my leathers, leaving him and Elain to go find a place to wash up. And talk--perhaps. But as I strode through the flaps, sound greeted me within --talking. Many voices, one of them belonging to my mate. I got one step inside and knew I wouldn't be changing my clothes anytime soon. For seated in a chair before the brazier was Prince Drakon, Rhys sprawled and still bloody on the cushions across from him. And on the pillows beside Rhys sat a lovely female, her dark hair tumbling down her back in luscious curls, already smiling at me. Miryam. <|title|>Chapter 79 <|startofchapter|>Miryam's smiling face was more human than High Fae. But Miryam, I remembered as she and Drakon rose to their feet to greet me, was only half Fae. She bore the delicately pointed ears, but ... there was something still human about her. In that broad smile that lit up her brown eyes. I instantly liked her. Mud splattered her own leathers--a different make than the Illyrians', but obviously designed by another aerial people to keep warm in the skies--and a few speckles of blood coated the honey-brown skin along her neck and hands, but she didn't seem to notice. Or care. She held out her hands to me. "High Lady," Miryam said, her accent the same as Drakon's. Rolling and rich. I took her hands, surprised to find them dry and warm. She squeezed my fingers tightly while I managed to say, "I've heard so much about you--thank you for coming." I cast a look at where Rhys still remained sprawled on the cushions, watching us with raised brows. "For someone who was just dead," I said tightly, "you seem remarkably relaxed." Rhys smirked. "I'm glad you're bouncing back to your usual spirits, Feyre darling." Drakon snorted, and took my hands, squeezing them as tightly as his mate had. "What he doesn't want to tell you, my lady, is that he's so damn old he can't stand up right now." I whirled to Rhys. "Are you--" "Fine, fine," Rhys said, waving a hand, even as he groaned a bit. "Though perhaps now you see why I didn't bother visiting these two for so long. They're terribly cruel to me." Miryam laughed, plopping down on the cushions again. "Your mate was in the middle of telling us your story, as it seems you've already heard ours." I had, but even as Prince Drakon gracefully returned to his seat and I slid into the chair beside his, just watching the two of them ... I wanted to know the entire thing. One day--not tomorrow or the day after, but ... one day, I wanted to hear their tale in full. But for now ... "I--saw you two. Battling Jurian." Drakon instantly stiffened, Miryam's eyes going shuttered as I asked, "Is he ... Is he dead?" "No," was all Drakon said. "Mor," Miryam cut in, frowning, "wound up convincing us not to ... settle things." They would have. From the expression on Drakon's face, the prince still didn't seem convinced. And from the haunted gleam in Miryam's eyes, it seemed as if far more had occurred during that fight than they let on. But I still asked, "Where is he?" Drakon shrugged. "After we didn't kill him, I have no idea where he slithered off to." Rhys gave me a half smile. "He's with Lord Graysen's men --seeing to the wounded." Miryam asked carefully, "Are you--friends with Jurian?" "No," I said. "I mean--I don't think so. But ... every word he said was true. And he did help me. A great deal." Neither of them so much as nodded as they exchanged a long glance, unspoken words passing between them. Rhys asked, "I thought I saw Nephelle during the battle-- any chance I'll get to say hello, or is she too important now to bother with me?" Laughter--beautiful laughter--danced in his eyes. I straightened, smiling. "She's here?" Drakon lifted a dark brow. "You know Nephelle?" "Know of her," I said, and glanced toward the tent flaps as if she'd come striding right in. "I--it's a long story." "We have time to hear it," Miryam said, then added, "Or ... a bit of time, I suppose." For there were indeed many, many things to sort out. Including-- I shook my head. "Later," I said to Miryam, to her mate. The proof that a world could exist without a wall, without a Treaty. "There's something ..." I relayed my thought down the bond to Rhys, earning a nod of approval before I said, "Is your island still secret?" Miryam and Drakon exchanged a guilty look. "We do apologize for that," Miryam offered. "It seems that the glamour worked too well, if it kept well-meaning messengers away." She shook her head, those beautiful curls moving with her. "We would have come sooner--we left the moment we realized what trouble you all were in." "No," I said, shaking my own head, scrambling for the words. "No--I don't blame you. Mother above, we owe you ... I blew out a breath. "We are in your debt." Drakon and Miryam objected to that, but I went on, "What I mean is ... If there was an object of terrible power that now needed to be hidden ... Would Cretea remain a good place to conceal it?" Again that look between them, a look between mates. "Yes," Drakon said. Miryam breathed, "You mean the Cauldron." I nodded. It had been hauled into our camp, guarded by whatever Illyrians could still stand. None of the other High Lords had asked--for now. But I could see the debate that would rage, the war we might start internally over who, exactly, got to keep the Cauldron. "It needs to disappear," I said softly. "Permanently." I added, "Before anyone remembers to lay claim to it." Drakon and Miryam considered, some unspoken conversation passing between them, perhaps down their own mating bond. "When we leave," Drakon said at last, "one of our ships might find itself a little heavier in the water." I smiled. "Thank you." "When are you, exactly, planning to leave?" Rhys asked, lifting a brow. "Kicking us out already?" Drakon said with a half smile. "A few days," Miryam cut in wryly. "As soon as the injured are ready." "Good," I said. They all looked to me. I swallowed. "I mean ... Not that I'm glad for you to go ..." The amusement in Miryam's eyes spread, twinkling. I smiled myself. "I want you here. Because I'd like to call a meeting." A day later ... I didn't know how it'd come together so quickly. I'd merely explained what I wanted, what we needed to do, and ... Rhys and Drakon made it happen. There was no proper space to do it--not with the camps in disarray. But there was one place--a few miles off. And as the sun set and my family's half-ruined estate became filled with High Lords and princes, generals and commanders, humans and Fae ... I still didn't have the words to really express it. How we could all gather in the giant sitting room, the only usable space in my family's old estate, and actually have ... this meeting. I'd slept through the night, deep and undisturbed, Rhys in bed beside me. I hadn't let go of him until dawn had leaked into our tent. And then ... the war-camps were too full of blood and injured and the dead. And there was this meeting to arrange between various armies and camps and peoples. It took all day, but by the end of it, I found myself in the wrecked foyer, Rhys and the others beside me, the chandelier a broken mass behind us on the cracked marble floor. The High Lords arrived first. Starting with Beron. Beron, who did not so much as glance at his son-who-was- not-his-son. Lucien, standing on my other side, didn't acknowledge Beron's existence, either. Or Eris's, as he strode a step behind his father. Eris was bruised and cut up enough to indicate he must have been in terrible shape after the fighting ceased yesterday, sporting a brutal slice down his cheek and neck--barely healed. Mor let out a satisfied grunt at the sight of it--or perhaps a sound of disappointment that the wound had not been fatal. Eris continued by as if he hadn't heard it, but didn't sneer at least. Rather--he just nodded at Rhys. It was silent promise enough: soon. Soon, perhaps, Eris would finally take what he desired--and call in our debt. We did not bother to nod back. None of us. Especially not Lucien, who continued dutifully ignoring his eldest brother. But as Eris strode by ... I could have sworn there was something like sadness--like regret, as he glanced to Lucien. Tamlin crossed the threshold moments later. He had a bandage over his neck, and one over his arm. He came, as he had to that first meeting, with no one in tow. I wondered if he knew that this wrecked house had been purchased with the money he'd given my father. With the kindness he'd shown them. But Tamlin's attention didn't go to me. It went to the person just to my left. To Lucien. Lucien stepped forward, head high, even as that metal eye whirred. My sisters were already within the sitting room, ready to guide our guests to their predetermined spots. We'd planned those carefully, too. Tamlin paused a few feet away. None of us said a word. Not as Lucien opened his mouth. "Tamlin--" But Tamlin's attention had gone to the clothes Lucien now wore. The Illyrian leathers. He might as well have been wearing Night Court black. It was an effort to keep my mouth shut, to not explain that Lucien didn't have any other clothes with him, and that they weren't a sign of his allegiance-- Tamlin just shook his head, loathing simmering in his green eyes, and walked past. Not a word. I looked at Lucien in time to see the guilt, the devastation, flicker in that russet eye. Rhys had indeed told Lucien everything about Tamlin's covert assistance. His help in dragging Beron here. Saving me at the camp. But Lucien remained standing with us as Tamlin found his place in the sitting room to our right. Did not glance at his friend even once. Lucien wasn't foolish enough to beg for forgiveness. That conversation, that confrontation--it would take place at another time. Another day, or week, or month. I lost track of who filed in afterward. Drakon and Miryam, along with a host of their people. Including-- I started at the slight, dark-haired female who entered on Miryam's right, her wings much smaller than the other Seraphim. I glanced to where Azriel stood on Rhys's other side, bandaged all over and wings in splints after he'd worked them too hard yesterday. The shadowsinger nodded in confirmation. Nephelle. I smiled at the legendary warrior-scribe when she noticed my stare as she passed by. She grinned right back at me. Kallias and Viviane flowed in, along with that female who was indeed her sister. Then Tarquin and Varian. Thesan and his battered Peregryn captain--whose hand he tightly held. Helion was the last of the High Lords to arrive. I didn't dare look through the ruined doorway to where Lucien now stood in the sitting room, close to Elain's side as she and my sister silently kept against the wall by the intact bay of windows. Beron, wisely, didn't approach--and Eris only looked over every now and then. To watch. Helion was limping, flanked by a few of his captains and generals, but still managed a grim smile. "Better enjoy this while it lasts," he said to me and Rhys. "I doubt we'll be so unified when we walk out of here." "Thank you for the words of encouragement," I said tightly, and Helion chuckled as he eased inside. More and more people filled that room, the tense conversation broken up by bursts of laughter or greeting. Rhys at last told our family to head into the room--while he and I waited. Waited and waited, long minutes. It'd take them longer to arrive, I realized. Since they could not winnow or move as quickly through the world. I was about to turn into the room to begin without them when two male figures filled the night-darkened doorway. Jurian. And Graysen. And behind them ... a small contingent of other humans. I swallowed hard. Now the difficult part would begin. Graysen looked inclined to turn around, the fresh cut down his cheek crinkling as he scowled, but Jurian nudged him in. A black eye bloomed on the left side of Jurian's face. I wondered if Miryam or Drakon had given it to him. My money was on the former. Graysen only gave us a tight nod. Jurian smirked at me. "I put you on opposite ends of the room," I said. From both Miryam and Drakon. And from Elain. Neither man responded, and only strode, proud and tall, into that room full of Fae. Rhys kissed my cheek and strode in behind them. Which left-- As Lucien had promised, with darkness now overhead, Vassa found me. The last to arrive--the last piece of this meeting. She stormed over the threshold, breathless and unfaltering, and paused only a foot away. Her unbound hair was a reddish gold, thick dark lashes and brows framing the most stunningly blue eyes I'd ever seen. Beautiful, her freckled skin golden-brown and gleaming. Only a few years older than me, but ... young-feeling. Coltish. Fierce and untamed, despite her curse. Vassa said in a lilting accent, "Are you Feyre Cursebreaker?" "Yes," I said, sensing Rhys listening wryly from the other room, where the rest were now beginning to quiet themselves. To wait for me. Vassa's full mouth tightened. "I am sorry--about your father. He was a great man." Nesta, striding out of the sitting room, halted at the words. Looked Vassa up and down. Vassa returned the favor. "You are Nesta," Vassa declared, and I wondered how my father had described her so that Vassa would know. "I am sorry for your loss, too." Nesta simply regarded her with that cool indifference. "I heard you slew the King of Hybern," Vassa said, those dark brows narrowing as she again surveyed Nesta, searching for any sign of a warrior beneath the blue dress she wore. Vassa only shrugged to herself when Nesta didn't reply and said to me, "He was a better father to me than my own. I owe much to him, and will honor his memory as long as I live." The look Nesta was giving the queen was enough to wither the grass beyond the shattered front door. It didn't get any better as Vassa said, "Can you break the curse on me, Feyre Archeron?" "Is that why you agreed to come so quickly?" A half smile. "Partly. Lucien suggested you had gifts. And other High Lords do as well." Like his father--his true one. Helion. She went on before I could answer. "I do not have much time left--before I must return to the lake. To him." To the death-lord who held her leash. "Who is he?" I breathed. Vassa only shook her head, waving a hand as her eyes darkened, and repeated, "Can you break my curse?" "I--I don't know how to break those kinds of spells," I admitted. Her face fell. I added, "But ... we can try." She considered. "With the healing of our armies, I won't be able to leave for some time. Perhaps it will give me a ... loophole, as Lucien called it, to remain longer." Another shake of the head. "We shall discuss this later," she declared. "Along with the threat my fellow queens pose." My heart stumbled a beat. A cruel smile curved Vassa's mouth. "They will try to intervene," she said. "With any sort of peace talks. Hybern sent them back before this battle, but I have no doubt they were smart enough to encourage that. Not to waste their armies here." "But they will elsewhere?" Nesta demanded. Vassa tossed her smooth sheet of hair over a shoulder. "We shall see. And you will think of ways to help me." I waited until she headed for the sitting room before I flicked my brows up at the order. Either she didn't know or didn't care that I was also a queen in my right. Nesta smirked. "Good luck with that." I scowled, shoving down the worry already blooming in my gut, and said, "Where are you going? The meeting is starting." "Why should I be in there?" "You're the guest of honor. You killed the king." Shadows flickered in her face. "So what." I blinked. "You're our emissary as well. You should be here for this." Nesta looked toward the stairs, and I noticed the object she clutched in her fist. The small, wooden carving. I couldn't make out what manner of animal it was, but I knew the wood. Knew the work. One of the little carvings our father had crafted during those years he--he hadn't done much of anything at all. I looked at her face before she could notice my attention. Nesta said, "Do you think it will work--this meeting?" With so many Fae ears in the room beyond, I didn't dare give any answer but the truth. "I don't know. But I'm willing to try." I offered my hand to my sister. "I want you here for this. With me." Nesta considered that outstretched hand. For a moment, I thought she'd walk away. But she slid her hand into mine, and together we walked into that room crammed with humans and Fae. Both parts of this world. All parts of this world. High Fae from every court. Miryam and Drakon and their retinue. Humans from many territories. All watching me and Nesta as we entered, as we strode to where Rhys and the others waited, facing the gathered room. I tried not to cringe at the shattered furniture that had been sorted through for any possible seats. At the ripped wallpaper, the half-dangling curtains. But it was better than nothing. I supposed the same could be said of our world. Silence settled. Rhys nudged me forward, a hand brushing the small of my back as I took a step past him. I lifted my chin, scanning the room. And I smiled at them, the humans and Fae assembled here--in peace. My voice was clear and unwavering. "My name is Feyre Archeron. I was once human--and now I am Fae. I call both worlds my home. And I would like to discuss renegotiating the Treaty." <|title|>Chapter 80 <|startofchapter|>A world divided was not a world that could thrive. That first meeting went on for hours, many of us short- tempered with exhaustion, but ... channels were made. Stories were exchanged. Tales narrated of either side of the wall. I told them my story. All of it. I told it to the strangers who did not know me, I told it to my friends, and I told it to Tamlin, hard-faced by the distant wall. I explained the years of poverty, the trials Under the Mountain, the love I had found and let go, the love that had healed and saved me. My voice did not quaver. My voice did not break. Nearly everything I had seen in the Ouroboros--I let them see it, too. Told them. And when I was done, Miryam and Drakon stepped forward to tell their own story. Another glimmer of proof--that humans and Fae could not only work together, live together, but become so much more. I listened to every word of it--and did not bother to brush away my tears at times. I only clutched Rhys's hand, and did not let go. There were several others with tales. Some that went counter to our own. Relations that had not gone so well. Crimes committed. Hurts that could not be forgiven. But it was a start. There was still much work to be done, trust to build, but the matter of crafting a new wall ... It remained to be seen whether we could agree on that. Many of us were against it. Many of the humans, rightfully so, were wary. There were still other Fae territories to contend with--those who had found Hybern's promises appealing. Seductive. The High Lords quarreled the most about the possibility of a new wall. And with every word of it, just as Helion said, that temporary allegiance frayed and snapped. Court lines were redrawn. But at least they stayed until the end--until the early hours of the morning when we finally decided that the rest would be discussed on another day. At another place. It would take time. Time, and healing, and trust. And I wondered if the road ahead--the road to true peace-- would perhaps be the hardest and longest one yet. The others left, winnowing or flying or striding off into the darkness, already peeling back into their groups and courts and war-bands. I watched them go from the open doorway of the estate until they were only shadows against the night. I'd seen Elain staring out the window earlier--watching Graysen leave with his men without so much as a look back at her. He had meant every word that day at his keep. Whether he noticed that Elain still wore his engagement ring, that Elain stared and stared at him as he walked off into the night ... I didn't know. Let Lucien deal with that--for now. I sighed, leaning my head against the cracked stone door frame. The grand wooden door had been shattered completely, the splinters still scattered on the marble entry behind me. I recognized his scent before I heard his easy steps approach. "Where do you go now?" I asked without looking over my shoulder as Jurian paused beside me and stared into the darkness. Miryam and Drakon had left quickly, needing to tend to their wounded--and to spirit away the Cauldron to one of their ships before the other High Lords had a moment to consider its whereabouts. Jurian leaned against the opposite door frame. "Queen Vassa offered me a place within her court." Indeed, Vassa still remained inside, chatting with Lucien animatedly. I supposed that if she only had until dawn before turning back into that firebird, she wanted to make every minute count. Lucien, surprisingly, was chuckling, his shoulders loose and his head angled while he listened. "Are you going to accept?" Jurian's face was solemn--tired. "What sort of court can a cursed queen have? She's bound to that death-lord--she has to go back to his lake on the continent at some point." He shook his head. "Too bad the king was so spectacularly beheaded by your sister. I bet he could have found a way to break that curse of hers." "Too bad indeed," I muttered. Jurian grunted his amusement. "Do you think we stand a chance?" I asked, motioning to the human figures still walking, far away, back toward the camp. "Of peace between all of us?" Jurian was silent for a long moment. "Yes," he said softly. "I do." And I didn't know why, but it gave me comfort. I was still mulling over Jurian's words days later, when that war-camp was at last dismantled. When we said our final good-byes, and made promises--some more sincere than others--to see each other again. When my court, my family, winnowed back to Velaris. Sunlight still leaked in through the windows of the town house. The scent of citrus and the sea and baked bread still filled every room. And distantly ... Children were still laughing in the streets. Home. Home was the same--home was untouched. I squeezed Rhys's hand so tightly I thought he'd complain, but he only squeezed right back. And even though we had all bathed, as we stood there ... there was a grime to us. Like the blood hadn't entirely washed off. And I realized that home was indeed the same, but we ... perhaps we were not. Amren muttered, "I suppose I shall have to eat real food now. "A monumental sacrifice," Cassian quipped. She gave him a vulgar gesture, but her eyes narrowed at the sight of his still-bandaged wings. Her eyes--normal silver eyes--slid to Nesta, holding herself by the stair rail, as if she'd retreat to her room. My sister had barely spoken, barely eaten these past few days. Had not visited Cassian in his healing bed. Still had not talked to me about what had happened. Amren said to her, "I'm surprised you didn't take the king's head back to have stuffed and hung on your wall." Nesta's eyes shot to her. Mor clicked her tongue. "Some would consider that joke to be in bad taste, Amren." "I saved your asses. I'm entitled to say what I want." And with that Amren stalked out of the house and into the city streets. "The new Amren is even crankier than the old one," Elain said softly. I burst out laughing. The others joined me, and even Elain smiled--broadly. All but Nesta, who stared at nothing. When the Cauldron had broken ... I didn't know if it had broken that power in her, too. Severed its bond. Or if it still lived, somewhere within her. "Come on," Mor said, slinging her arm around Azriel's shoulders, then one carefully around Cassian's and leading them toward the sitting room. "We need a drink." "We're opening the fancy bottles," Cassian called over his shoulder to Rhys, still limping on that barely healed leg. My mate sketched a subservient bow. "Save a bit for me, at least." Rhys glanced at my sisters, then winked at me. The shadows of battle still lingered, but that wink ... I was still shaky with terror that it wasn't real. That it was all some fever dream inside the Cauldron. It is real, he purred into my mind. I'll prove it to you later. For hours. I snorted, and watched as he made an excuse to no one in particular about finding food and sauntered down the hall, hands in his pockets. Alone in the foyer with my sisters, Elain still smiling a bit, Nesta stone-faced, I took a breath. Lucien had remained behind to help with any of the human wounded still needing Fae healing, but had promised to come here when he finished. And as for Tamlin ... I had not spoken to him. Had barely seen him after he'd told me to be happy, and given me back my mate. He'd left the meeting before I could say anything. So I gave Lucien a note to hand to him if he saw him. Which I knew--I knew he would. There was a stop that Lucien had to make before he came here, he'd said. I knew where he meant. My note to Tamlin was short. It conveyed everything I needed to say. Thank you. I hope you find happiness, too. And I did. Not just for what he'd done for Rhys, but ... Even for an immortal, there was not enough time in life to waste it on hatred. On feeling it and putting it into the world. So I wished him well--I truly did, and hoped that one day ... One day, perhaps he would face those insidious fears, that destructive rage rotting away inside him. "So," I said to my sisters. "What now?" Nesta just turned and went up the stairs, each step slow and stiff. She shut her door with a decisive click once she got to her bedroom. "With Father," Elain whispered, still staring up those steps, "I don't think Nesta--" "I know," I murmured. "I think Nesta needs to sort through .. alot of it." Too much of it. Elain faced me. "Do we help her?" I fiddled with the end of my braid. "Yes--but not today. Not tomorrow." I loosed a breath. "When--when she's ready." When we were ready, too. Elain nodded, smiling up at me, and it was tentative joy-- and life that shone in her eyes. A promise of the future, gleaming and sweet. I led her into the sitting room, where Cassian had a bottle of amber-colored liquor in each hand, Azriel was already rubbing his temples, and Mor was grabbing fine-cut crystal glasses off a shelf. "What now?" Elain mused, at last answering my question from moments ago as her attention drifted to the windows facing the sunny street. That smile grew, bright enough that it lit up even Azriel's shadows across the room. "I would like to build a garden," she declared. "After all of this ... I think the world needs more gardens." My throat was too tight to immediately reply, so I just kissed my sister's cheek before I said, "Yes--I think it does." <|title|>Chapter 81 <|startofchapter|>Rhysand Even from the kitchen, I could hear all of them. The lapping of what was surely the oldest bottle of liquor I owned, then the clink of those equally ancient crystal glasses against each other. Then the laughter. The deep rumble--that was Azriel. Laughing at whatever Mor had said that prompted her into a fit of it as well, the sound cackling and merry. And then another laugh--silvery and bright. More beautiful than any music played at one of Velaris's countless halls and theaters. I stood at the kitchen window, staring at the garden in full summer splendor, not quite seeing the blooms Elain Archeron had tended these weeks. Just staring--and listening to that beautiful laugh. My mate's laugh. I rubbed a hand over my chest at that sound--the joy in it. Their conversation flitted past, falling back into old rhythms and yet ... Close. We had all come so close to not seeing it again. This place. Each other. And I knew that the laughter ... it was in part because of that, too. In defiance and gratitude. "You coming to drink, or are you just going to stare at the flowers all day?" Cassian's voice cut through the melody of sounds. I turned, finding him and Azriel in the kitchen doorway, each with a drink in hand. A second lay in Azriel's other scarred hand--he floated it over to me on a blue-tinged breeze. I clasped the cool, heavy crystal tumbler. "Sneaking up on your High Lord is ill-advised," I told them, drinking deeply. The liquor burned its way down my throat, warming my stomach. "It's good to keep you on edge in your old age," Cassian said, drinking himself. He leaned against the doorway. "Why are you hiding in here?" Azriel shot him a look, but I snorted, taking another sip. "You really did open the fancy bottles." They waited. But Feyre's laugh sounded again, followed by Elain's and Mor's. And when I dragged my gaze back to my brothers, I saw the understanding on their faces. "It's real," Azriel said softly. Neither laughed or commented on the burning in my eyes. I took another drink to wash away the tightness in my throat, and approached them. "Let's not do this again for another five hundred years," I said a bit hoarsely, and clinked my glass against theirs. Azriel cracked a smile as Cassian lifted a brow. "And what are we going to do until then?" Beyond brokering peace, beyond those queens who were sure to be a problem, beyond healing our fractured world ... Mor called for us, demanding we bring them a spread of food. An impressive one, she added. With extra bread. I smiled. Smiled wider as Feyre's laugh sounded again--as I felt it down the bond, sparkling brighter than the entirety of Starfall. "Until then," I said to my brothers, slinging my arms around their shoulders and leading them back to the sitting room. I looked ahead, toward that laugh, that light--and that vision of the future Feyre had shown me, more beautiful than anything I could have ever wished for--anything I had wished for, on those long-ago, solitary nights with only the stars for company. A dream still unanswered--but not forever. "Until then, we enjoy every heartbeat of it." <|title|>Chapter 82 <|startofchapter|>Rhysand was on the roof, the stars bright and low, the tiles beneath my bare feet still warm from the day's sun. He sat in one of those small iron chairs, no light, no bottle of liquor--just him, and the stars, and the city. I slid into his lap and let him wrap his arms around me. We sat in silence for a long time. We'd barely had a moment alone in the aftermath of the battle, and had been too tired to do anything but sleep. But tonight ... His hand ran down my thigh, bared with the way my nightgown had hitched. He startled when he actually looked at me, then huffed a laugh against my shoulder. "I should have known." "The shop ladies gave it to me for free. As thanks for saving them from Hybern. Maybe I should do it more often, if it gets me free lingerie." For I indeed wore that pair of red, lacy underthings-- beneath a matching red nightgown that was so scandalously sheer it showed them off. "Hasn't anyone told you? You're disgustingly rich." "Just because I have money doesn't mean I need to spend it." He squeezed my knee. "Good. We need someone with a head for money around here. I've been bleeding out gold left and right thanks to our Court of Dreams taking advantage of my ridiculous generosity." A laugh rumbled deep in my throat as I leaned my head back against his shoulder. "Is Amren still your Second?" "Our Second." "Semantics." Rhys traced idle circles on my bare skin, along my knee and lower thigh. "If she wants it, it's hers." "Even if she doesn't have her powers anymore?" "She's now High Fae. I'm sure she'll discover some hidden talent to terrorize us with." I laughed again, savoring the feel of his hand on my skin, the warmth of his body around me. "I heard you," he said softly. "When I was--gone." I began to tense at the lingering terror that had driven me from sleep these past few nights--the terror I doubted I'd soon recover from. "Those minutes," I said once he began making long, soothing strokes down my thigh. "Rhys ... I never want to feel that again." "Now you know how I felt Under the Mountain." I craned my neck to look up at him. "Never lie to me again. Not about that." "But about other things?" I pinched his arm hard enough that he laughed and batted away my hand. "I couldn't let all you ladies take the credit for saving us. Some male had to claim a bit of glory so you don't trample us until the end of time with your bragging." I punched his arm this time. But he wrapped his arm around my waist and squeezed, breathing me in. "I heard you, even in death. It made me look back. Made me stay--a little longer." Before going to that place I had once tried to describe to the Carver. "When it's time to go there," I said quietly, "we go together." "It's a bargain," he said, and kissed me gently. I murmured back onto his lips, "Yes, it is." The skin on my left arm tingled. A lick of warmth snaked down it. I looked down to find another tattoo there--the twin to the one that had once graced it, save for that black band of the bargain ld made with Bryaxis. He'd modified this one to fit around it, to be seamlessly integrated amid the whorls and swirls. "I missed the old one," he said innocently. On his own left arm, the same tattoo flowed. Not to his fingers the way mine did, but rather from his wrist to his elbow. "Copycat," I said tartly. "It looks better on me." "Hmmm." He traced a line down my spine, then poked two spots along it. "Sweet Bryaxis has vanished. Do you know what that means?" "That I have to go hunt it down and put it back in the library?" "Oh, you most certainly do." I twisted in his lap, looping my arms around his neck as I said, "And will you come with me? On this adventure--and all the rest?" Rhys leaned forward and kissed me. "Always." The stars seemed to burn brighter in response, creeping closer to watch. His wings rustled as he shifted us in the chair and deepened the kiss until I was breathless. And then I was flying. Rhys gathered me up in his arms, shooting us high into the starry night, the city a glimmering reflection beneath. Music flitted out from the riverfront cafes. People laughed as they walked arm in arm down the streets and across the bridges spanning the Sidra. Dark spots still stained some of the glimmering expanse--piles of rubble and ruined buildings-- but even some of those had been lit up with small lights. Candles. Defiant and lovely against the blackness. We would need more of that in the days to come--on the long road ahead. To a new world. One I would leave a better place than how I'd found it. But for now ... this moment, with the city below us, the world around us, savoring that hard-won peace ... I savored it, too. Every heartbeat. Every sound and smell and image that planted itself in my mind, so many that it would take me a lifetime--several of them--to paint. Rhys leveled out, sent a thought into my mind, and grinned broadly as I summoned wings. He let go of me and I swept smoothly out of his arms, basking in the warm wind caressing every inch of me, drinking in the air laced with salt and citrus. It took me a few flaps to get it right--the feel and rhythm. But then I was steady, even. Then I was flying. Soaring. Rhys fell into flight beside me, and when he smiled at me again as we sailed through the stars and the lights and the sea- kissed breeze, when he showed me all the wonders of Velaris, the glittering Rainbow a living river of color beneath us ... When he brushed his wing against mine, just because he could, because he wanted to and we'd have an eternity of nights to do this, to see everything together ... A gift. All of it. <|startofbook|><|title|>A Court of Frost and Starlight <|title|>Chapter 1: Feyre <|startofchapter|>The first snow of winter had begun whipping through Velaris an hour earlier. The ground had finally frozen solid last week, and by the time I'd finished devouring my breakfast of toast and bacon, washed down with a heady cup of tea, the pale cobblestones were dusted with fine, white powder. I had no idea where Rhys was. He hadn't been in bed when I'd awoken, the mattress on his side already cold. Nothing unusual, as we were both busy to the point of exhaustion these days. Seated at the long cherrywood dining table at the town house, I frowned at the whirling snow beyond the leaded glass windows. Once, I had dreaded that first snow, had lived in terror of long, brutal winters. But it had been a long, brutal winter that had brought me so deep into the woods that day nearly two years ago. A long, brutal winter that had made me desperate enough to kill a wolf, that had eventually led me here--to this life, this ... happiness. The snow fell, thick clumps plopping onto the dried grass of the tiny front lawn, crusting the spikes and arches of the decorative fence beyond it. Deep inside me, rising with every swirling flake, a sparkling, crisp power stirred. I was High Lady of the Night Court, yes, but also one blessed with the gifts of all the courts. It seemed Winter now wanted to play. Finally awake enough to be coherent, I lowered the shield of black adamant guarding my mind and cast a thought down the soul-bridge between me and Rhys. Where'd you fly off to so early? My question faded into blackness. A sure sign that Rhys was nowhere near Velaris. Likely not even within the borders of the Night Court. Also not unusual --he'd been visiting our war allies these months to solidify our relationships, build trade, and keep tabs on their post-wall intentions. When my own work allowed it, I often joined him. I scooped up my plate, draining my tea to the dregs, and padded toward the kitchen. Playing with ice and snow could wait. Nuala was already preparing for lunch at the worktable, no sign of her twin, Cerridwen, but I waved her off as she made to take my dishes. "I can wash them," I said by way of greeting. Up to the elbows in making some sort of meat pie, the half-wraith gave me a grateful smile and let me do it. A female of few words, though neither twin could be considered shy. Certainly not when they worked--spied--for both Rhys and Azriel. "It's still snowing," I observed rather pointlessly, peering out the kitchen window at the garden beyond as I rinsed off the plate, fork, and cup. Elain had already readied the garden for winter, veiling the more delicate bushes and beds with burlap. "I wonder if it'll let up at all." Nuala laid the ornate lattice crust atop the pie and began pinching the edges together, her shadowy fingers making quick, deft work of it. "It'll be nice to have a white Solstice," she said, voice lilting and yet hushed. Full of whispers and shadows. "Some years, it can be fairly mild." Right. The Winter Solstice. In a week. I was still new enough to being High Lady that I had no idea what my formal role was to be. If we'd have a High Priestess do some odious ceremony, as Ianthe had done the year before-- A year. Gods, nearly a year since Rhys had called in his bargain, desperate to get me away from the poison of the Spring Court, to save me from my despair. Had he been only a minute later, the Mother knew what would have happened. Where I'd now be. Snow swirled and eddied in the garden, catching in the brown fibers of the burlap covering the shrubs. My mate--who had worked so hard and so selflessly, all without hope that I would ever be with him. We had both fought for that love, bled for it. Rhys had died for it. I still saw that moment, in my sleeping and waking dreams. How his face had looked, how his chest had not risen, how the bond between us had shredded into ribbons. I still felt it, that hollowness in my chest where the bond had been, where he had been. Even now, with that bond again flowing between us like a river of star-flecked night, the echo of its vanishing lingered. Drew me from sleep; drew me from a conversation, a painting, a meal. Rhys knew exactly why there were nights when I would cling tighter to him, why there were moments in the bright, clear sunshine that I would grip his hand. He knew, because I knew why his eyes sometimes turned distant, why he occasionally just blinked at all of us as if not quite believing it and rubbed his chest as if to ease an ache. Working had helped. Both of us. Keeping busy, keeping focused--I sometimes dreaded the quiet, idle days when all those thoughts snared me at last. When there was nothing but me and my mind, and that memory of Rhys lying dead on the rocky ground, the King of Hybern snapping my father's neck, all those Illyrians blasted out of the sky and falling to earth as ashes. Perhaps one day, even the work wouldn't be a battlement to keep the memories out. Mercifully, plenty of work remained for the foreseeable future. Rebuilding Velaris after the attacks from Hybern being only one of many monumental tasks. For other tasks required doing as well--both in Velaris and beyond it: in the Illyrian Mountains, in the Hewn City, in the vastness of the entire Night Court. And then there were the other courts of Prythian. And the new, emerging world beyond. But for now: Solstice. The longest night of the year. I turned from the window to Nuala, who was still fussing over the edges of her pie. "It's a special holiday here as well, right?" I asked casually. "Not just in Winter and Day." And Spring. "Oh, yes," Nuala said, stooping over the worktable to examine her pie. Skilled spy--trained by Azriel himself--and master cook. "We love it dearly. It's intimate, warm, lovely. Presents and music and food, sometimes feasting under the starlight ..." The opposite of the enormous, wild, days-long party I'd been subjected to last year. But--presents. I had to buy presents for all of them. Not had to, but wanted to. Because all my friends, now my family, had fought and bled and nearly died as well. I shut out the image that tore through my mind: Nesta, leaning over a wounded Cassian, the two of them prepared to die together against the King of Hybern. My father's corpse behind them. I rolled my neck. We could use something to celebrate. It had become so rare for all of us to be gathered for more than an hour or two. Nuala went on, "It's a time of rest, too. And a time to reflect on the darkness --how it lets the light shine." "Is there a ceremony?" The half-wraith shrugged. "Yes, but none of us go. It's more for those who wish to honor the light's rebirth, usually by spending the entire night sitting in absolute darkness." A ghost of a smirk. "It's not quite such a novelty for my sister and me. Or for the High Lord." I tried not to look too relieved that I wouldn't be dragged to a temple for hours as I nodded. Setting my clean dishes to dry on the little wooden rack beside the sink, I wished Nuala luck on lunch, and headed upstairs to dress. Cerridwen had already laid out clothes, but there was still no sign of Nuala's twin as I donned the heavy charcoal sweater, the tight black leggings, and fleece-lined boots before loosely braiding back my hair. A year ago, I'd been stuffed into fine gowns and jewels, made to parade in front of a preening court who'd gawked at me like a prized breeding mare. Here ... I smiled at the silver-and-sapphire band on my left hand. The ring I'd won for myself from the Weaver in the Wood. My smile faded a bit. I could see her, too. See Stryga standing before the King of Hybern, covered in the blood of her prey, as he took her head in his hands and snapped her neck. Then threw her to his beasts. I clenched my fingers into a fist, breathing in through my nose, out through my mouth, until the lightness in my limbs faded, until the walls of the room stopped pressing on me. Until I could survey the blend of personal objects in Rhys's room--our room. It was by no means a small bedroom, but it had lately started to feel... tight. The rosewood desk against one wall was covered in papers and books from both of our own dealings; my jewelry and clothes now had to be divided between here and my old bedroom. And then there were the weapons. Daggers and blades, quivers and bows. I scratched my head at the heavy, wicked-looking mace that Rhys had somehow dumped beside the desk without my noticing. I didn't even want to know. Though I had no doubt Cassian was somehow behind it. We could, of course, store everything in the pocket between realms, but ... I frowned at my own set of Illyrian blades, leaning against the towering armoire. If we got snowed in, perhaps I'd use the day to organize things. Find room for everything. Especially that mace. It would be a challenge, since Elain still occupied a bedroom down the hall. Nesta had chosen her own home across the city, one that I opted to not think about for too long. Lucien, at least, had taken up residence in an elegant apartment down by the river the day after he'd returned from the battlefields. And the Spring Court. I hadn't asked Lucien any questions about that visit--to Tamlin. Lucien hadn't explained the black eye and cut lip, either. He'd only asked Rhys and me if we knew of a place to stay in Velaris, since he did not wish to inconvenience us further by staying at the town house, and did not wish to be isolated at the House of Wind. He hadn't mentioned Elain, or his proximity to her. Elain had not asked him to stay, or to go. And whether she cared about the bruises on his face, she certainly hadn't let on. But Lucien had remained, and found ways to keep busy, often gone for days or weeks at a time. Yet even with Lucien and Nesta staying in their own apartments, the town house was a bit small these days. Even more so if Mor, Cassian, and Azriel stayed over. And the House of Wind was too big, too formal, too far from the city proper. Nice for a night or two, but... I loved this house. It was my home. The first I'd really had in the ways that counted. And it'd be nice to celebrate the Solstice here. With all of them, crowded as it might be. I scowled at the pile of papers I had to sort through: letters from other courts, priestesses angling for positions, and kingdoms both human and faerie. I'd put them off for weeks now, and had finally set aside this morning to wade through them. High Lady of the Night Court, Defender of the Rainbow and the ... Desk. I snorted, flicking my braid over a shoulder. Perhaps my Solstice gift to myself would be to hire a personal secretary. Someone to read and answer those things, to sort out what was vital and what could be put aside. Because a little extra time to myself, for Rhys ... I'd look through the court budget that Rhys never really cared to follow and see what could be moved around for the possibility of such a thing. For him and for me. I knew our coffers ran deep, knew we could easily afford it and not make so much as a dent in our fortune, but I didn't mind the work. I loved the work, actually. This territory, its people--they were as much my heart as my mate. Until yesterday, nearly every waking hour had been packed with helping them. Until I'd been politely, graciously, told to go home and enjoy the holiday. In the wake of the war, the people of Velaris had risen to the challenge of rebuilding and helping their own. Before I'd even come up with an idea of how to help them, multiple societies had been created to assist the city. So I'd volunteered with a handful of them for tasks ranging from finding homes for those displaced by the destruction to visiting families affected during the war to helping those without shelter or belongings ready for winter with new coats and supplies. All of it was vital; all of it was good, satisfying work. And yet ... there was more. There was more that I could do to help. Personally. I just hadn't figured it out yet. It seemed I wasn't the only one eager to assist those who'd lost so much. With the holiday, a surge of fresh volunteers had arrived, cramming the public hall near the Palace of Thread and Jewels, where so many of the societies were headquartered. Your help has been crucial, Lady, one charity matron had said to me yesterday. You have been here nearly every day--you have worked yourself to the bone. Take the week off. You've earned it. Celebrate with your mate. I'd tried to object, insisting that there were still more coats to hand out, more firewood to be distributed, but the faerie had just motioned to the crowded public hall around us, filled to the brim with volunteers. We have more help than we know what to do with. When I'd tried objecting again, she'd shooed me out the front door. And shut it behind me. Point taken. The story had been the same at every other organization I'd stopped by yesterday afternoon. Go home and enjoy the holiday. So I had. At least, the first part. The enjoying bit, however ... Rhys's answer to my earlier inquiry about his whereabouts finally flickered down the bond, carried on a rumble of dark, glittering power. I'm at Devlon's camp. It took you this long to respond? It was a long distance to the Illyrian Mountains, yes, but it shouldn't have taken minutes to hear back. A sensual huff of laughter. Cassian was ranting. He didn't take a breath. My poor Illyrian baby. We certainly do torment you, don't we? Rhys's amusement rippled toward me, caressing my innermost self with night-veiled hands. But it halted, vanishing as quickly as it had come. Cassian's getting into it with Devlon. I'll check in later. With a loving brush against my senses, he was gone. I'd get a full report about it soon, but for now ... I smiled at the snow waltzing outside the windows. <|title|>Chapter 1: Rhysand <|startofchapter|>It was barely nine in the morning, and Cassian was already pissed. The watery winter sun tried and failed to bleed through the clouds looming over the Illyrian Mountains, the wind a boom across the gray peaks. Snow already lay inches deep over the bustling camp, a vision of what would soon befall Velaris. It had been snowing when I departed at dawn--perhaps there would be a good coating already on the ground by the time I returned. I hadn't had a chance to ask Feyre about it during our brief conversation down the bond minutes ago, but perhaps she would go for a walk with me through it. Let me show her how the City of Starlight glistened under fresh snow. Indeed, my mate and city seemed a world away from the hive of activity in the Windhaven camp, nestled in a wide, high mountain pass. Even the bracing wind that swept between the peaks, belying the camp's very name by whipping up dervishes of snow, didn't deter the Illyrians from going about their daily chores. For the warriors: training in the various rings that opened onto a sheer drop to the small valley floor below, those not present out on patrol. For the males who hadn't made the cut: tending to various trades, whether merchants or blacksmiths or cobblers. And for the females: drudgery. They didn't see it as such. None of them did. But their required tasks, whether old or young, remained the same: cooking, cleaning, child-rearing, clothes- making, laundry ... There was honor in such tasks--pride and good work to be found in them. But not when every single one of the females here was expected to do it. And if they shirked those duties, either one of the half-dozen camp- mothers or whatever males controlled their lives would punish them. So it had been, as long as I'd known this place, for my mother's people. The world had been reborn during the war months before, the wall blasted to nothingness, and yet some things did not alter. Especially here, where change was slower than the melting glaciers scattered amongst these mountains. Traditions going back thousands of years, left mostly unchallenged. Until us. Until now. Drawing my attention away from the bustling camp beyond the edge of the chalk-lined training rings where we stood, I schooled my face into neutrality as Cassian squared off against Devlon. "The girls are busy with preparations for the Solstice," the camp-lord was saying, his arms crossed over his barrel chest. "The wives need all the help they can get, if all's to be ready in time. They can practice next week." I'd lost count of how many variations of this conversation we'd had during the decades Cassian had been pushing Devlon on this. The wind whipped Cassian's dark hair, but his face remained hard as granite as he said to the warrior who had begrudgingly trained us, "The girls can help their mothers after training is done for the day. We'll cut practice down to two hours. The rest of the day will be enough to assist in the preparations." Devlon slid his hazel eyes to where I lingered a few feet away. "Is it an order?" I held that gaze. And despite my crown, my power, I tried not to fall back into the trembling child I'd been five centuries ago, that first day Devlon had towered over me and then hurled me into the sparring ring. "If Cassian says it's an order, then it is." It had occurred to me, during the years we'd been waging this same battle with Devlon and the Illyrians, that I could simply rip into his mind, all their minds, and make them agree. Yet there were some lines I could not, would not cross. And Cassian would never forgive me. Devlon grunted, his breath a curl of steam. "An hour." "Two hours," Cassian countered, wings flaring slightly as he held a hard line that I'd been called in this morning to help him maintain. It had to be bad, then, if my brother had asked me to come. Really damn bad. Perhaps we needed a permanent presence out here, until the Illyrians remembered things like consequences. But the war had impacted us all, and with the rebuilding, with the human territories crawling out to meet us, with other Fae kingdoms looking toward a wall-less world and wondering what shit they could get away with ... We didn't have the resources to station someone out here. Not yet. Perhaps next summer, if the climate elsewhere was calm enough. Devlon's cronies loitered in the nearest sparring ring, sizing up Cassian and me, the same way they had our entire lives. We'd slaughtered enough of them in the Blood Rite all those centuries ago that they still kept back, but... It had been the Illyrians who had bled and fought this summer. Who had suffered the most losses as they took on the brunt of Hybern and the Cauldron. That any of the warriors survived was a testament to their skill and Cassian's leadership, but with the Illyrians isolated and idle up here, that loss was starting to shape itself into something ugly. Dangerous. None of us had forgotten that during Amarantha's reign, a few of the war- bands had gleefully bowed to her. And I knew none of the Illyrians had forgotten that we'd spent those first few months after her downfall hunting down those rogue groups. And ending them. Yes, a presence here was needed. But later. Devlon pushed, crossing his muscled arms. "The boys need a nice Solstice after all they endured. Let the girls give one to them." The bastard certainly knew what weapons to wield, both physical and verbal. "Two hours in the ring each morning," Cassian said with that same hard tone that even I knew not to push unless I wanted a flat-out brawl. He didn't break Devlon's gaze. "The boys can help decorate, clean, and cook. They've got two hands." "Some do," Devlon said. "Some came home without one." I felt, more than saw, the wound strike deep in Cassian. It was the cost of leading my armies: each injury, death, scar--he took them all as his own personal failings. And being around these warriors, seeing those missing limbs and brutal injuries still healing or that would never heal ... "They practice for ninety minutes," I said, soothing the dark power that began to roil in my veins, seeking a path into the world, and slid my chilled hands into my pockets. Cassian, wisely, pretended to look outraged, his wings spreading wide. Devlon opened his mouth, but I cut him off before he could shout something truly stupid. "An hour and a half every morning, then they do the housework, the males pitching in whenever they can." I glanced toward the permanent tents and small stone and wood houses scattered along the wide pass and up into the tree-crusted peaks behind us. "Do not forget that a great number of the females, Devlon, also suffered losses. Perhaps not a hand, but their husbands and sons and brothers were out on those battlefields. Everyone helps prepare for the holiday, and everyone gets to train." I jerked my chin at Cassian, indicating for him to follow me to the house across the camp that we now kept as our semi-permanent base of operations. There wasn't a surface inside where I hadn't taken Feyre--the kitchen table being my particular favorite, thanks to those raw initial days after we'd first mated, when I could barely stand to be near her and not be buried inside her. How long ago, how distant, those days seemed. Another lifetime ago. I needed a holiday. Snow and ice crunched under our boots as we aimed for the narrow, two-level stone house by the tree line. Not a holiday to rest, not to visit anywhere, but just to spend more than a handful of hours in the same bed as my mate. To get more than a few hours to sleep and bury myself in her. It seemed to be one or the other these days. Which was utterly unacceptable. And had turned me about twenty kinds of foolish. Last week had been so stupidly busy and I'd been so desperate for the feel and taste of her that I'd taken her during the flight down from the House of Wind to the town house. High above Velaris--for all to see, if it weren't for the cloaking I had thrown into place. It'd required some careful maneuvering, and I'd planned for months now on actually making a moment of it, but with her against me like that, alone in the skies, all it had taken was one look into those blue-gray eyes and I was unfastening her pants. A moment later, I'd been inside her, and had nearly sent us crashing into the rooftops like an Illyrian whelp. Feyre had just laughed. I'd climaxed at the husky sound of it. It had not been my finest moment, and I had no doubt I'd sink to lower levels before the Winter Solstice bought us a day's reprieve. I choked my rising desire until it was nothing but a vague roaring in the back of my mind, and didn't speak until Cassian and I were nearly through the wooden front door. "Anything else I should know about while I'm here?" I knocked the snow from my boots against the door frame and stepped into the house. That kitchen table lay smack in the middle of the front room. I banished the image of Feyre bent over it. Cassian blew out a breath and shut the door behind him before tucking in his wings and leaning against it. "Dissension's brewing. With so many clans gathering for the Solstice, it'll be a chance for them to spread it even more." A flicker of my power had a fire roaring in the hearth, the small downstairs warming swiftly. It was barely a whisper of magic, yet its release eased that near-constant strain of keeping all that I was, all that dark power, in check. I took up a spot against that damned table and crossed my arms. "We've dealt with this shit before. We'll deal with it again." Cassian shook his head, the shoulder-length dark hair shining in the watery light leaking through the front windows. "It's not like it was before. Before, you, me, and Az--we were resented for what we are, who we are. But this time ... we sent them to battle. I sent them, Rhys. And now it's not only the warrior-pricks who are grumbling, but also the females. They believe you and I marched them south as revenge for our own treatment as children; they think we specifically stationed some of the males on the front lines as payback." Not good. Not good at all. "We have to handle this carefully, then. Find out where this poison comes from and put an end to it--peacefully," I clarified when he lifted his brows. "We can't kill our way out of this one." Cassian scratched at his jaw. "No, we can't." It wouldn't be like hunting down those rogue war-bands who'd terrorized any in their path. Not at all. He surveyed the dim house, the fire crackling in the hearth, where we'd seen my mother cook so many meals during our training. An old, familiar ache filled my chest. This entire house, every inch of it, was full of the past. "A lot of them are coming in for the Solstice," he went on. "I can stay here, keep an eye on things. Maybe hand out presents to the children, some of the wives. Things that they really need but are too proud to ask for." It was a solid idea. But--"It can wait. I want you home for Solstice." "I don't mind--" "I want you home. In Velaris," I added when he opened his mouth to spew some Illyrian loyalist bullshit that he still believed, even after they had treated him like less than nothing his entire life. "We're spending Solstice together. All of us." Even if I had to give them a direct order as High Lord to do it. Cassian angled his head. "What's eating at you?" "Nothing." As far as things went, I had little to complain about. Taking my mate to bed on a regular basis wasn't exactly a pressing issue. Or anyone's concern but our own. "Wound a little tight, Rhys?" Of course he'd seen right through it. I sighed, frowning at the ancient, soot-speckled ceiling. We'd celebrated the Solstice in this house, too. My mother always had gifts for Azriel and Cassian. For the latter, the initial Solstice we'd shared here had been the first time he'd received any sort of gift, Solstice or not. I could still see the tears Cassian had tried to hide as he'd opened his presents, and the tears in my mother's eyes as she watched him. "I want to jump ahead to next week." "Sure that power of yours can't do it for you?" I leveled a dry look at him. Cassian just gave me a cocky grin back. I never stopped being grateful for them--my friends, my family, who looked at that power of mine and did not balk, did not become scented with fear. Yes, I could scare the shit out of them sometimes, but we all did that to each other. Cassian had terrified me more times than I wanted to admit, one of them being mere months ago. Twice. Twice, in the span of a matter of weeks, it had happened. I still saw him being hauled by Azriel off that battlefield, blood spilling down his legs, into the mud, his wound a gaping maw that sliced down the center of his body. And I still saw him as Feyre had seen him--after she'd let me into her mind to reveal what, exactly, had occurred between her sisters and the King of Hybern. Still saw Cassian, broken and bleeding on the ground, begging Nesta to run. Cassian had not yet spoken of it. About what had occurred in those moments. About Nesta. Cassian and my mate's sister did not speak to each other at all. Nesta had successfully cloistered herself in some slummy apartment across the Sidra, refusing to interact with any of us save for a few brief visits with Feyre every month. I'd have to find a way to fix that, too. I saw how it ate away at Feyre. I still soothed her after she awoke, frantic, from nightmares about that day in Hybern when her sisters had been Made against their will. Nightmares about the moment when Cassian was near death and Nesta was sprawled over him, shielding him from that killing blow, and Elain-- Elain --had taken up Azriel's dagger and killed the King of Hybern instead. I rubbed my brows between my thumb and forefinger. "It's rough now. We're all busy, all trying to hold everything together." Az, Cassian, and I had yet again postponed our annual five days of hunting up at the cabin this fall. Put off for next year--again. "Come home for Solstice, and we can sit down and figure out a plan for the spring." "Sounds like a festive event." With my Court of Dreams, it always was. But I made myself ask, "Is Devlon one of the would-be rebels?" I prayed it wasn't true. I resented the male and his backwardness, but he'd been fair with Cassian, Azriel, and me under his watch. Treated us to the same rights as full-blooded Illyrian warriors. Still did that for all the bastard-born under his command. It was his absurd ideas about females that made me want to throttle him. Mist him. But if he had to be replaced, the Mother knew who would take his position. Cassian shook his head. "I don't think so. Devlon shuts down any talk like that. But it only makes them more secretive, which makes it harder to find out who's spreading this bullshit around." I nodded, standing. I had a meeting in Cesere with the two priestesses who had survived Hybern's massacre a year ago regarding how to handle pilgrims who wanted to come from outside our territory. Being late wouldn't lend any favors to my arguments to delay such a thing until the spring. "Keep an eye on it for the next few days, then come home. I want you there two nights before Solstice. And for the day after." A hint of a wicked grin. "I assume our Solstice-day tradition will still be on, then. Despite you now being such a grown-up, mated male." I winked at him. "I'd hate for you Illyrian babies to miss me." Cassian chuckled. There were indeed some Solstice traditions that never grew tiresome, even after the centuries. I was almost at the door when Cassian said, "Is ..." He swallowed. I spared him the discomfort of trying to mask his interest. "Both sisters will be at the house. Whether they want to or not." "Nesta will make things unpleasant if she decides she doesn't want to be there." "She'll be there," I said, grinding my teeth, "and she'll be pleasant. She owes Feyre that much." Cassian's eyes flickered. "How is she?" I didn't bother to put any sort of spin on it. "Nesta is Nesta. She does what she wants, even if it kills her sister. I've offered her job after job, and she refuses them all." I sucked on my teeth. "Perhaps you can talk some sense into her over Solstice." Cassian's Siphons gleamed atop his hands. "It'd likely end in violence." It indeed would. "Then don't say a word to her. I don't care--just keep Feyre out of it. It's her day, too." Because this Solstice ... it was her birthday. Twenty-one years old. It hit me for a moment, how small that number was. My beautiful, strong, fierce mate, shackled to me-- "I know what that look means, you bastard," Cassian said roughly, "and it's bullshit. She loves you--in a way I've never seen anybody love anyone." "It's hard sometimes," I admitted, staring toward the snow-coated field outside the house, the training rings and dwellings beyond it, "to remember that she picked it. Picked me. That it's not like my parents, shoved together." Cassian's face turned uncharacteristically solemn, and he remained quiet for a moment before he said, "I get jealous sometimes. I'd never begrudge you for your happiness, but what you two have, Rhys ..." He dragged a hand through his hair, his crimson Siphon glinting in the light streaming through the window. "It's the legends, the lies, they spin us when we're children. About the glory and wonder of the mating bond. I thought it was all bullshit. Then you two came along." "She's turning twenty-one. Twenty-one, Cassian." "So? Your mother was eighteen to your father's nine hundred." "And she was miserable." "Feyre is not your mother. And you are not your father." He looked me over. "Where is this coming from, anyway? Are things ... not good?" The opposite, actually. "I get this feeling," I said, pacing a step, the ancient wood floorboards creaking beneath my boots, my power a writhing, living thing prowling through my veins, "that it's all some sort of joke. Some sort of cosmic trick, and that no one --no one --can be this happy and not pay for it." "You've already paid for it, Rhys. Both of you. And then some." I waved a hand. "I just..." I trailed off, unable to finish the words. Cassian stared at me for a long moment. Then he crossed the distance between us, gathering me in an embrace so tight I could barely breathe. "You made it. We made it. You both endured enough that no one would blame you if you danced off into the sunset like Miryam and Drakon and never bothered with anything else again. But you are bothering-- you're both still working to make this peace last. Peace, Rhys. We have peace, and the true kind. Enjoy it--enjoy each other. You paid the debt before it was ever a debt." My throat tightened, and I gripped him hard around his wings, the scales of his leathers digging into my fingers. "What about you?" I asked, pulling away after a moment. "Are you ... happy?" Shadows darkened his hazel eyes. "I'm getting there." A halfhearted answer. I'd have to work on that, too. Perhaps there were threads to be pulled, woven together. Cassian jerked his chin toward the door. "Get going, you bastard. I'll see you in three days." I nodded, opening the door at last. But paused on the threshold. "Thanks, brother." Cassian's crooked grin was bright, even if those shadows still guttered in his eyes. "It's an honor, my lord." <|title|>Chapter 3: Cassian <|startofchapter|>Cassian wasn't entirely certain that he could deal with Devlon and his warriors without throttling them. At least, not for the next good hour or so. And since that would do little to help quell the murmurings of discontent, Cassian waited until Rhys had winnowed out into the snow and wind before vanishing himself. Not winnowing, though that would have been one hell of a weapon against enemies in battle. He'd seen Rhys do it with devastating results. Az, too--in the strange way that Az could move through the world without technically winnowing. He'd never asked. Azriel certainly had never explained. But Cassian didn't mind his own method of moving: flying. It certainly had served him well enough in battle. Stepping out the front door of the ancient wooden house so that Devlon and the other pricks in the sparring rings would see him, Cassian made a good show of stretching. First his arms, honed and still aching to pummel in a few Illyrian faces. Then his wings, wider and broader than theirs. They'd always resented that, perhaps more than anything else. He flared them until the strain along the powerful muscles and sinews was a pleasurable burn, his wings casting long shadows across the snow. And with a mighty flap, he shot into the gray skies. The wind was a roar around him, the temperature cold enough that his eyes watered. Bracing--freeing. He flapped higher, then banked left, aiming for the peaks behind the camp pass. No need to do a warning sweep over Devlon and the sparring rings. Ignoring them, projecting the message that they weren't important enough to even be considered threats were far better ways of pissing them off. Rhys had taught him that. Long ago. Catching an updraft that sent him soaring over the nearest peaks and then into the endless, snow-coated labyrinth of mountains that made up their homeland, Cassian breathed in deep. His flying leathers and gloves kept him warm enough, but his wings, exposed to the chill wind ... The cold was sharp as a knife. He could shield himself with his Siphons, had done it in the past. But today, this morning, he wanted that biting cold. Especially with what he was about to do. Where he was going. He would have known the path blindfolded, simply by listening to the wind through the mountains, inhaling the smell of the pine-crusted peaks below, the barren rock fields. It was rare for him to make the trek. He usually only did it when his temper was likely to get the better of him, and he had enough lingering control to know he needed to head out for a few hours. Today was no exception. In the distance, small, dark shapes shot through the sky. Warriors on patrol. Or perhaps armed escorts leading families to their Solstice reunions. Most High Fae believed the Illyrians were the greatest menace in these mountains. They didn't realize that far worse things prowled between the peaks. Some of them hunting on the winds, some crawling out from deep caverns in the rock itself. Feyre had braved facing some of those things in the pine forests of the Steppes. To save Rhys. Cassian wondered if his brother had ever told her what dwelled in these mountains. Most had been slain by the Illyrians, or sent fleeing to those Steppes. But the most cunning of them, the most ancient ... they had found ways to hide. To emerge on moonless nights to feed. Even five centuries of training couldn't stop the chill that skittered down his spine as Cassian surveyed the empty, quiet mountains below and wondered what slept beneath the snow. He cut northward, casting the thought from his mind. On the horizon, a familiar shape took form, growing larger with each flap of his wings. Ramiel. The sacred mountain. The heart of not only Illyria, but the entirety of the Night Court. None were permitted on its barren, rocky slopes--save for the Illyrians, and only once a year at that. During the Blood Rite. Cassian soared toward it, unable to resist Ramiel's ancient summons. Different--the mountain was so different from the barren, terrible presence of the lone peak in the center of Prythian. Ramiel had always felt alive, somehow. Awake and watchful. He'd only set foot on it once, on that final day of the Rite. When he and his brothers, bloodied and battered, had scaled its side to reach the onyx monolith at its summit. He could still feel the crumbling rock beneath his boots, hear the rasp of his breathing as he half hauled Rhys up the slopes, Azriel providing cover behind. As one, the three of them had touched the stone--the first to reach its peak at the end of that brutal week. The uncontested winners. The Rite hadn't changed in the centuries since. Early each spring, it still went on, hundreds of warrior-novices deposited across the mountains and forests surrounding the peak, the territory off-limits during the rest of the year to prevent any of the novices from scouting ahead for the best routes and traps to lay. There were varying qualifiers throughout the year to prove a novice's readiness, each slightly different depending on the camp. But the rules remained the same. All novices competed with wings bound, no Siphons--a spell restraining all magic--and no supplies beyond the clothes on your back. The goal: make it to the summit of that mountain by the end of that week and touch the stone. The obstacles: the distance, the natural traps, and each other. Old feuds played out; new ones were born. Scores were settled. A week of pointless bloodshed, Az insisted. Rhys often agreed, though he often also agreed with Cassian's point: the Blood Rite offered an escape valve for dangerous tensions within the Illyrian community. Better to settle it during the Rite than risk civil war. Illyrians were strong, proud, fearless. But peacemakers, they were not. Perhaps he'd get lucky. Perhaps the Rite this spring would ease some of the malcontent. Hell, he'd offer to participate himself, if it meant quieting the grumbling. They'd barely survived this war. They didn't need another one. Not with so many unknowns gathering outside their borders. Ramiel rose higher still, a shard of stone piercing the gray sky. Beautiful and lonely. Eternal and ageless. No wonder that first ruler of the Night Court had made this his insignia. Along with the three stars that only appeared for a brief window each year, framing the uppermost peak of Ramiel like a crown. It was during that window when the Rite occurred. Which had come first: the insignia or the Rite, Cassian didn't know. Had never really cared to find out. The conifer forests and ravines that dotted the landscape flowing to Ramiel's foot gleamed under fresh snow. Empty and clean. No sign of the bloodshed that would occur come the start of spring. The mountain neared, mighty and endless, so wide that he might as well have been a mayfly in the wind. Cassian soared toward Ramiel's southern face, rising high enough to catch a glimpse of the shining black stone jutting from its top. Who had put that stone atop the peak, he didn't know, either. Legend said it had existed before the Night Court formed, before the Illyrians migrated from the Myrmidons, before humans had even walked the earth. Even with the fresh snow crusting Ramiel, none had touched the pillar of stone. A thrill, icy and yet not unwelcome, flooded his veins. It was rare for anyone in the Blood Rite to make it to the monolith. Since he and his brothers had done it five centuries ago, Cassian could recall only a dozen or so who'd not only reached the mountain, but also survived the climb. After a week of fighting, of running, of having to find and make your own weapons and food, that climb was worse than every horror before it. It was the true test of will, of courage. To climb when you had nothing left; to climb when your body begged you to stop ... It was when the breaking usually occurred. But when he'd touched the onyx monolith, when he'd felt that ancient force sing into his blood in the heartbeat before it had whisked him back to the safety of Devlon's camp ... It had been worth it. To feel that. With a solemn bow of his head toward Ramiel and the living stone atop it, Cassian caught another swift wind and soared southward. An hour's flight had him approaching yet another familiar peak. One that no one but him and his brothers bothered to come to. What he'd so badly needed to see, to feel, today. Once, it had been as busy a camp as Devlon's. Once. Before a bastard had been born in a freezing, lone tent on the outskirts of the village. Before they'd thrown a young, unwed mother out into the snow only days after giving birth, her babe in her arms. And then taken that babe mere years later, tossing him into the mud at Devlon's camp. Cassian landed on the flat stretch of mountain pass, the snowdrifts higher than at Windhaven. Hiding any trace of the village that had stood here. Only cinders and debris remained anyway. He'd made sure of it. When those who had been responsible for her suffering and torment had been dealt with, no one had wanted to remain here a moment longer. Not with the shattered bone and blood coating every surface, staining every field and training ring. So they'd migrated, some blending into other camps, others making their own lives elsewhere. None had ever come back. Centuries later, he didn't regret it. Standing in the snow and wind, surveying the emptiness where he'd been born, Cassian didn't regret it for a heartbeat. His mother had suffered every moment of her too-short life. It only grew worse after she'd given birth to him. Especially in the years after he'd been taken away. And when he'd been strong and old enough to come back to look for her, she was gone. They'd refused to tell him where she was buried. If they'd given her that honor, or if they'd thrown her body into an icy chasm to rot. He still didn't know. Even with their final, rasping breaths, those who'd made sure she never knew happiness had refused to tell him. Had spat in his face and told him every awful thing they'd done to her. He'd wanted to bury her in Velaris. Somewhere full of light and warmth, full of kind people. Far away from these mountains. Cassian scanned the snow-covered pass. His memories here were murky: mud and cold and too-small fires. But he could recall a lilting, soft voice, and gentle, slender hands. It was all he had of her. Cassian dragged his hands through his hair, fingers catching on the wind- tangled snarls. He knew why he'd come here, why he always came here. For all that Amren taunted him about being an Illyrian brute, he knew his own mind, his own heart. Devlon was a fairer camp-lord than most. But for the females who were less fortunate, who were preyed upon or cast out, there was little mercy. So training these women, giving them the resources and confidence to fight back, to look beyond their campfires ... it was for her. For the mother buried here, perhaps buried nowhere. So it might never happen again. So his people, whom he still loved despite their faults, might one day become something more. Something better. The unmarked, unknown grave in this pass was his reminder. Cassian stood in silence for long minutes before turning his gaze westward. As if he might see all the way to Velaris. Rhys wanted him home for the Solstice, and he'd obey. Even if Nesta-- Nesta. Even in his thoughts, her name clanged through him, hollow and cold. Now wasn't the time to think of her. Not here. He very rarely allowed himself to think of her, anyway. It usually didn't end well for whoever was in the sparring ring with him. Spreading his wings wide, Cassian took a final glance around the camp he'd razed to the ground. Another reminder, too: of what he was capable of when pushed too far. To be careful, even when Devlon and the others made him want to bellow. He and Az were the most powerful Illyrians in their long, bloody history. They wore an unprecedented seven Siphons each, just to handle the tidal wave of brute killing power they possessed. It was a gift and a burden that he'd never taken lightly. Three days. He had three days until he was to go to Velaris. He'd try to make them count. <|title|>Chapter 4: Feyre <|startofchapter|>The Rainbow was a hum of activity, even with the drifting veils of snow. High Fae and faeries alike poured in and out of the various shops and studios, some perched on ladders to string up drooping garlands of pine and holly between the lampposts, some sweeping gathered clusters of snow from their doorsteps, some--no doubt artists--merely standing on the pale cobblestones and turning in place, faces uplifted to the gray sky, hair and skin and clothes dusted with fine powder. Dodging one such person in the middle of the street--a faerie with skin like glittering onyx and eyes like swirling clusters of stars--I aimed for the front of a small, pretty gallery, its glass window revealing an assortment of paintings and pottery. The perfect place to do some Solstice shopping. A wreath of evergreen hung on the freshly painted blue door, brass bells dangling from its center. The door: new. The display window: new. Both had been shattered and stained with blood months ago. This entire street had. It was an effort not to glance at the white-dusted stones of the street, sloping steeply down to the meandering Sidra at its base. To the walkway along the river, full of patrons and artists, where I had stood months ago and summoned wolves from those slumbering waters. Blood had been streaming down these cobblestones then, and there hadn't been singing and laughter in the streets, but screaming and pleading. I took a sharp inhale through my nose, the chilled air tickling my nostrils. Slowly, I released it in a long breath, watching it cloud in front of me. Watching myself in the reflection of the store window: barely recognizable in my heavy gray coat, a red-and-gray scarf that I'd pilfered from Mor's closet, my eyes wide and distant. I realized a heartbeat later that I was not the only one staring at myself. Inside the gallery, no fewer than five people were doing their best not to gawk at me as they browsed the collection of paintings and pottery. My cheeks warmed, heart a staccato beat, and I offered a tight smile before continuing on. No matter that I'd spotted a piece that caught my eye. No matter that I wanted to go in. I kept my gloved hands bundled in the pockets of my coat as I strode down the steep street, mindful of my steps on the slick cobblestones. While Velaris had plenty of spells upon it to keep the palaces and cafes and squares warm during the winter, it seemed that for this first snow, many of them had been lifted, as if everyone wanted to feel its chill kiss. I'd indeed braved the walk from the town house, wanting to not only breathe in the crisp, snowy air, but to also just absorb the crackling excitement of those readying for Solstice, rather than merely winnowing or flying over them. Though Rhys and Azriel still instructed me whenever they could, though I truly loved to fly, the thought of exposing sensitive wings to the cold made me shiver. Few people recognized me while I strode by, my power firmly restrained within me, and most too concerned with decorating or enjoying the first snow to note those around them, anyway. A small mercy, though I certainly didn't mind being approached. As High Lady, I hosted weekly open audiences with Rhys at the House of Wind. The requests ranged from the small--a faelight lamppost was broken--to the complicated--could we please stop importing goods from other courts because it impacted local artisans. Some were issues Rhys had dealt with for centuries now, but he never acted like he had. No, he listened to each petitioner, asked thorough questions, and then sent them on their way with a promise to send an answer to them soon. It had taken me a few sessions to get the hang of it--the questions he used, the way he listened. He hadn't pushed me to step in unless necessary, had granted me the space to figure out the rhythm and style of these audiences and begin asking questions of my own. And then begin writing replies to the petitioners, too. Rhys personally answered each and every one of them. And I now did, too. Hence the ever-growing stacks of paperwork in so many rooms of the town house. How he'd lasted so long without a team of secretaries assisting him, I had no idea. But as I eased down the steep slope of the street, the bright-colored buildings of the Rainbow glowing around me like a shimmering memory of summer, I again mulled it over. Velaris was by no means poor, its people mostly cared for, the buildings and streets well kept. My sister, it seemed, had managed to find the only thing relatively close to a slum. And insisted on living there, in a building that was older than Rhys and in dire need of repairs. There were only a few blocks in the city like that. When I'd asked Rhys about them, about why they had not been improved, he merely said that he had tried. But displacing people while their homes were torn down and rebuilt ... Tricky. I hadn't been surprised two days ago when Rhys had handed me a piece of paper and asked if there was anything else I would like to add to it. On the paper had been a list of charities that he donated to around Solstice-time, everything from aiding the poor, sick, and elderly to grants for young mothers to start their own businesses. I'd added only two items, both to societies that I'd heard about through my own volunteering: donations to the humans displaced by the war with Hybern, as well as to Illyrian war widows and their families. The sums we allocated were sizable, more money than I'd ever dreamed of possessing. Once, all I had wanted was enough food, money, and time to paint. Nothing more. I would have been content to let my sisters wed, to remain and care for my father. But beyond my mate, my family, beyond being High Lady--the mere fact that I now lived here, that I could walk through an entire artists' quarter whenever I wished ... Another avenue bisected the street midway down its slope, and I turned onto it, the neat rows of houses and galleries and studios curving away into the snow. But even amongst the bright colors, there were patches of gray, of emptiness. I approached one such hollow place, a half-crumbled building. Its mint-green paint had turned grayish, as if the very light had bled from the color as the building shattered. Indeed, the few buildings around it were also muted and cracked, a gallery across the street boarded up. A few months ago, I'd begun donating a portion of my monthly salary--the idea of receiving such a thing was still utterly ludicrous--to rebuilding the Rainbow and helping its artists, but the scars remained, on both these buildings and their residents. And the mound of snow-dusted rubble before me: who had dwelled there, worked there? Did they live, or had they been slaughtered in the attack? There were many such places in Velaris. I'd seen them in my work, while handing out winter coats and meeting with families in their homes. I blew out another breath. I knew I lingered too often, too long at such sites. I knew I should continue on, smiling as if nothing bothered me, as if all were well. And yet ... "They got out in time," a female voice said behind me. I turned, boots slipping on the slick cobblestones. Throwing out a hand to steady me, I gripped the first thing I came into contact with: a fallen chunk of rock from the wrecked house. But it was the sight of who, exactly, stood behind me, gazing at the rubble, that made me abandon any mortification. I had not forgotten her in the months since the attack. I had not forgotten the sight of her standing outside that shop door, a rusted pipe raised over one shoulder, squaring off against the gathered Hybern soldiers, ready to go down swinging for the terrified people huddled inside. A faint rose blush glowed prettily on her pale green skin, her sable hair flowing past her chest. She was bundled against the cold in a brown coat, a pink scarf wrapped around her neck and lower half of her face, but her long, delicate fingers were gloveless as she crossed her arms. Faerie--and not a kind I saw too frequently. Her face and body reminded me of the High Fae, though her ears were slenderer, longer than mine. Her form slimmer, sleeker, even with the heavy coat. I met her eyes, a vibrant ochre that made me wonder what paints I'd have to blend and wield to capture their likeness, and offered a small smile. "I'm glad to hear it." Silence fell, interrupted by the merry singing of a few people down the street and the wind gusting off the Sidra. The faerie only inclined her head. "Lady." I fumbled for words, for something High Lady-ish and yet accessible, and came up empty. Came up so empty that I blurted, "It's snowing." As if the drifting veils of white could be anything else. The faerie inclined her head again. "It is." She smiled at the sky, snow catching in her inky hair. "A fine first snow at that." I surveyed the ruin behind me. "You--you know the people who lived here?" "I did. They're living at a relative's farm in the lowlands now." She waved a hand toward the distant sea, to the flat expanse of land between Velaris and the shore. "Ah," I managed to say, then jerked my chin at the boarded-up shop across the street. "What about that one?" The faerie surveyed where I'd indicated. Her mouth--painted a berry pink-- tightened. "Not so happy an ending, I'm afraid." My palms turned sweaty within my wool gloves. "I see." She faced me again, silken hair flowing around her. "Her name was Polina. That was her gallery. For centuries." Now it was a dark, quiet husk. "I'm sorry," I said, uncertain what else to offer. The faerie's slim, dark brows narrowed. "Why should you be?" She added, "My lady." I gnawed on my lip. Discussing such things with strangers ... Perhaps not a good idea. So I ignored her question and asked, "Does she have any family?" I hoped they'd made it, at least. "They live out in the lowlands, too. Her sister and nieces and nephews." The faerie again studied the boarded-up front. "It's for sale now." I blinked, grasping the implied offer. "Oh--oh, I wasn't asking after it for that reason." It hadn't even entered my mind. "Why not?" A frank, easy question. Perhaps more direct than most people, certainly strangers, dared to be with me. "I--what use would I have for it?" She gestured to me with a hand, the motion effortlessly graceful. "Rumor has it that you're a fine artist. I can think of many uses for the space." I glanced away, hating myself a bit for it. "I'm not in the market, I'm afraid." The faerie shrugged with one shoulder. "Well, whether you are or aren't, you needn't go skulking around here. Every door is open to you, you know." "As High Lady?" I dared ask. "As one of us," she said simply. The words settled in, strange and yet like a piece I had not known was missing. An offered hand I had not realized how badly I wanted to grasp. "I'm Feyre," I said, removing my glove and extending my arm. The faerie clasped my fingers, her grip steel-strong despite her slender build. "Ressina." Not someone prone to excessive smiling, but still full of a practical sort of warmth. Noon bells chimed in a tower at the edge of the Rainbow, the sound soon echoed across the city in the other sister-towers. "I should be going," I said, releasing Ressina's hand and retreating a step. "It was nice to meet you." I tugged my glove back on, my fingers already stinging with cold. Perhaps I'd take some time this winter to master my fire gifts more precisely. Learning how to warm clothes and skin without burning myself would be mighty helpful. Ressina pointed to a building down the street--across the intersection I had just passed through. The same building she'd defended, its walls painted raspberry pink, and doors and windows a bright turquoise, like the water around Adriata. "I'm one of the artists who uses that studio space over there. If you ever want a guide, or even some company, I'm there most days. I live above the studio." An elegant wave toward the tiny round windows on the second level. I put a hand on my chest. "Thank you." Again that silence, and I took in that shop, the doorway Ressina had stood before, guarding her home and others. "We remember it, you know," Ressina said quietly, drawing my stare away. But her attention had landed on the rubble behind us, on the boarded-up studio, on the street, as if she, too, could see through the snow to the blood that had run between the cobblestones. "That you came for us that day." I didn't know what to do with my body, my hands, so I opted for stillness. Ressina met my stare at last, her ochre eyes bright. "We keep away to let you have your privacy, but don't think for one moment that there isn't a single one of us who doesn't know and remember, who isn't grateful that you came here and fought for us." It hadn't been enough, even so. The ruined building behind me was proof of that. People had still died. Ressina took a few unhurried steps toward her studio, then stopped. "There's a group of us who paint together at my studio. One night a week. We're meeting in two days' time. It would be an honor if you joined us." "What sort of things do you paint?" My question was soft as the snow falling past us. Ressina smiled slightly. "The things that need telling." Even with the icy evening soon descending upon Velaris, people packed the streets, laden with bags and boxes, some lugging enormous fruit baskets from one of the many stands now occupying either Palace. My fur-lined hood shielding me against the cold, I browsed through the vendor carts and storefronts in the Palace of Thread and Jewels, surveying the latter, mostly. Some of the public areas remained heated, but enough of Velaris had now been temporarily left exposed to the bitter wind that I wished I'd opted for a heavier sweater that morning. Learning how to warm myself without summoning a flame would be handy indeed. If I ever had the time to do it. I was circling back to a display in one of the shops built beneath the overhanging buildings when an arm looped through mine and Mor drawled, "Amren would love you forever if you bought her a sapphire that big." I laughed, tugging back my hood enough to see her fully. Mor's cheeks were flushed against the cold, her braided golden hair spilling into the white fur lining her cloak. "Unfortunately, I don't think our coffers would return the feeling." Mor smirked. "You do know that we're well-off, don't you? You could fill a bathtub with those things"--she jerked her chin toward the egg-sized sapphire in the window of the jewelry shop--"and barely make a dent in our accounts." I knew. I'd seen the lists of assets. I still couldn't wrap my mind around the enormity of Rhys's wealth. My wealth. It didn't feel real, those numbers and figures. Like it was children's play money. I only bought what I needed. But now ... "I'm looking for something to get her for Solstice." Mor surveyed the lineup of jewels, both uncut and set, in the window. Some gleamed like fallen stars. Others smoldered, as if they had been carved from the burning heart of the earth. "Amren does deserve a decent present this year, doesn't she?" After what Amren had done during that final battle to destroy Hybern's armies, the choice she'd made to remain here ... "We all do." Mor nudged me with an elbow, though her brown eyes gleamed. "And will Varian be joining us, do you think?" I snorted. "When I asked her yesterday, she hedged." "I think that means yes. Or he'll at least be visiting her." I smiled at the thought, and pulled Mor along to the next display window, pressing against her side for warmth. Amren and the Prince of Adriata hadn't officially declared anything, but I sometimes dreamed of it, too--that moment when she had shed her immortal skin and Varian had fallen to his knees. A creature of flame and brimstone, built in another world to mete out a cruel god's judgment, to be his executioner upon the masses of helpless mortals. Fifteen thousand years, she had been stuck in this world. And had not loved, not in the way that could alter history, alter fate, until that silver-haired Prince of Adriata. Or at least loved in the way that Amren was capable of loving anything. So, yes: nothing was declared between them. But I knew he visited her, secretly, in this city. Mostly because some mornings, Amren would strut into the town house smirking like a cat. But for what she'd been willing to walk away from, so that we could be saved Mor and I spied the piece in the window at the same moment. "That one," she declared. I was already moving for the glass front door, a silver bell ringing merrily as we entered. The shopkeeper was wide-eyed but beaming as we pointed to the piece, and swiftly laid it out on a black velvet pad. She made a sweet-tempered excuse to retrieve something from the back, granting us privacy to examine it as we stood before the polished wood counter. "It's perfect," Mor breathed, the stones fracturing the light and burning with their own inner fire. I ran a finger over the cool silver settings. "What do you want as a present?" Mor shrugged, her heavy brown coat bringing out the rich soil of her eyes. "I've got everything I need." "Try telling Rhys that. He says Solstice isn't about getting gifts you need, but rather ones you'd never buy for yourself." Mor rolled her eyes. Even though I was inclined to do the same, I pushed, "So what do you want?" She ran a finger along a cut stone. "Nothing. I--there's nothing I want." Beyond things she perhaps was not ready to ask for, search for. I again examined the piece and casually asked, "You've been at Rita's a great deal lately. Is there anyone you might want to bring to Solstice dinner?" Mor's eyes sliced to mine. "No." It was her business, when and how to inform the others what she'd told me during the war. When and how to tell Azriel especially. My only role in it was to stand by her--to have her back when she needed it. So I went on, "What are you getting the others?" She scowled. "After centuries of gifts, it's a pain in my ass to find something new for all of them. I'm fairly certain Azriel has a drawer full of all the daggers I've bought him throughout the centuries that he's too polite to throw away, but won't ever use." "You honestly think he'd ever give up Truth-Teller?" "He gave it to Elain," Mor said, admiring a moonstone necklace in the counter's glass case. "She gave it back," I amended, failing to block out the image of the black blade piercing through the King of Hybern's throat. But Elain had given it back --had pressed it into Azriel's hands after the battle, just as he had pressed it into hers before. And then walked away without looking back. Mor hummed to herself. The jeweler returned a moment later, and I signed the purchase to my personal credit account, trying not to cringe at the enormous sum of money that just disappeared with a stroke of a golden pen. "Speaking of Illyrian warriors," I said as we strode into the crammed Palace square and edged around a red-painted cart selling cups of piping hot molten chocolate, "what the hell do I get either of them?" I didn't have the nerve to ask what I should get for Rhys, since, even though I adored Mor, it felt wrong to ask another person for advice on what to buy my mate. "You could honestly get Cassian a new knife and he'd kiss you for it. But Az would probably prefer no presents at all, just to avoid the attention while opening it." I laughed. "True." Arm in arm, we continued on, the aromas of roasting hazelnuts, pine cones, and chocolate replacing the usual salt-and-lemon-verbena scent that filled the city. "Do you plan to visit Viviane during Solstice?" In the months since the war had ended, Mor had remained in contact with the Lady of the Winter Court, perhaps soon to be High Lady, if Viviane had anything to do about it. They'd been friends for centuries, until Amarantha's reign had severed contact, and though the war with Hybern had been brutal, one of the good things to come of it had been the rekindling of their friendship. Rhys and Kallias had a still-lukewarm alliance, but it seemed Mor's relationship with the High Lord of Winter's mate would be the bridge between our two courts. My friend smiled warmly. "Perhaps a day or two after. Their celebrating lasts for a whole week." "Have you been before?" A shake of her head, golden hair catching in the faelight lamps. "No. They usually keep their borders closed, even to friends. But with Kallias now in power, and especially with Viviane at his side, they're starting to open up once more." "I can only imagine their celebrations." Her eyes glowed. "Viviane told me about them once. They make ours look positively dull. Dancing and drinking, feasting and gifting. Roaring fires made from entire tree trunks and cauldrons full of mulled wine, the singing of a thousand minstrels flowing throughout their palace, answered by the bells ringing on the large sleighs pulled by those beautiful white bears." She sighed. I echoed it, the image she'd crafted hovering in the frosty air between us. Here in Velaris, we would celebrate the longest night of the year. In Kallias's territory, it seemed, they would celebrate the winter itself. Mor's smile faded. "I did find you for a reason, you know." "Not just to shop?" She nudged me with an elbow. "We're to head to the Hewn City tonight." I cringed. "We as in all of us?" "You, me, and Rhys, at least." I bit back a groan. "Why?" Mor paused at a vendor, examining the neatly folded scarves displayed. "Tradition. Around Solstice, we make a little visit to the Court of Nightmares to wish them well." "Really?" Mor grimaced, nodding to the vendor and continuing on. "As I said, tradition. To foster goodwill. Or as much of it as we have. And after the battles this summer, it wouldn't hurt." Keir and his Darkbringer army had fought, after all. We eased through the densely packed heart of the Palace, passing beneath a latticework of faelights just beginning to twinkle awake overhead. From a slumbering, quiet place inside me, the painting name flitted by. Frost and Starlight. "So you and Rhys decided to tell me mere hours before we go?" "Rhys has been away all day. I decided that we're to go tonight. Since we don't want to ruin the actual Solstice by visiting, now is best." There were plenty of days between now and Solstice Eve to do it. But Mor's face remained carefully casual. I still pushed, "You preside over the Hewn City, and deal with them all the time." She as good as ruled over it when Rhys wasn't there. And handled her awful father plenty. Mor sensed the question within my statement. "Eris will be there tonight. I heard it from Az this morning." I remained quiet, waiting. Mor's brown eyes darkened. "I want to see for myself just how cozy he and my father have become." It was good enough reason for me. <|title|>Chapter 5: Feyre <|startofchapter|>I was curled up on the bed, toasty and drowsy atop the layers of blankets and down quilts, when Rhys finally returned home as dusk fell. I felt his power beckoning to me long before he got near the house, a dark melody through the world. Mor had announced we wouldn't be going to the Hewn City for another hour or so, long enough that I'd forgone touching that paperwork on the rosewood writing desk across the room and had instead picked up a book. I'd barely managed ten pages before Rhys opened the bedroom door. His Illyrian leathers gleamed with melted snow, and more of it shone on his dark hair and wings as he quietly shut the door. "Right where I left you." I smiled, setting down the book beside me. It was nearly swallowed by the ivory down duvet. "Isn't this all I'm good for?" A rogue smile tugging up one corner of his mouth, Rhys began removing his weapons, then the clothes. But despite the humor lighting his eyes, each movement was heavy and slow--as if he fought exhaustion with every breath. "Maybe we should tell Mor to delay the meeting at the Court of Nightmares." I frowned. He shucked off his jacket, the leathers thumping as they landed on the desk chair. "Why? If Eris will indeed be there, I'd like to surprise him with a little visit of my own." "You look exhausted, that's why." He put a dramatic hand over his heart. "Your concern warms me more than any winter fire, my love." I rolled my eyes and sat up. "Did you at least eat?" He shrugged, his dark shirt straining across his broad shoulders. "I'm fine." His gaze slid over my bare legs as I pushed back the covers. Heat bloomed in me, but I shoved my feet into slippers. "I'll get you food." "I don't want--" "When did you last eat?" A sullen silence. "I thought so." I hauled a fleece-lined robe around my shoulders. "Wash up and change. We're leaving in forty minutes. I'll be back soon." He tucked in his wings, the faelight gilding the talon atop each one. "You don't need to--" "I want to, and I'm going to." With that, I was out the door and padding down the cerulean-blue hallway. Five minutes later, Rhys held the door open for me wearing nothing but his under shorts as I strode in, tray in my hands. "Considering that you brought the entire damn kitchen," he mused as I headed for the desk, still not anywhere near dressed for our visit, "I should have just gone downstairs." I stuck out my tongue, but scowled as I scanned the cluttered desk for any spare space. None. Even the small table by the window was covered with things. All important, vital things. I made do with the bed. Rhys sat, folding his wings behind him before reaching to pull me into his lap, but I dodged his hands and kept a healthy distance away. "Eat the food first." "Then I'll eat you after," he countered, grinning wickedly, but tore into the food. The rate and intensity of that eating was enough to bank any rising heat in me at his words. "Did you eat at all today?" A flash of violet eyes as he finished off his bread and began on the cold roast beef. "I had an apple this morning." "Rhys." "I was busy." "Rhys" He set down his fork, his mouth twitching toward a smile. "Feyre." I crossed my arms. "No one is too busy to eat." "You're fussing." "It's my job to fuss. And besides, you fuss plenty. Over far more trivial things." "Your cycle isn't trivial." "I was in a little bit of pain--" "You were thrashing on the bed as if someone had gutted you." "And you were acting like an overbearing mother hen." "I didn't see you screaming at Cassian, Mor, or Az when they expressed concern for you." "They didn't try to spoon-feed me like an invalid!" Rhys chuckled, finishing off his food. "I'll eat regular meals if you allow me to turn into an overbearing mother hen twice a year." Right--because my cycle was so different in this body. Gone were the monthly discomforts. I'd thought it a gift. Until two months ago. When the first one had happened. In place of those monthly, human discomforts was a biannual week of stomach-shredding agony. Even Madja, Rhys's favored healer, could do little for the pain short of rendering me unconscious. There had been a point during that week when I'd debated it, the pain slicing from my back and stomach down to my thighs, up to my arms, like living bands of lightning flashing through me. My cycle had never been pleasant as a human, and there had indeed been days when I couldn't get out of bed. It seemed that in being Made, the amplification of my attributes hadn't stopped at strength and Fae features. Not at all. Mor had little to offer me beyond commiseration and ginger tea. At least it was only twice a year, she'd consoled me. That was two times too many, I'd managed to groan to her. Rhys had stayed with me the entire time, stroking my hair, replacing the heated blankets that I soaked with sweat, even helping me clean myself off. Blood was blood, was all he said when I'd objected to him seeing me peel off the soiled undergarments. I'd been barely able to move at that point without whimpering, so the words hadn't entirely sunken in. Along with the implication of that blood. At least the contraceptive brew he took was working. But conceiving amongst the Fae was rare and difficult enough that I sometimes wondered if waiting until I was ready for children might wind up biting me in the ass. I hadn't forgotten the Bone Carver's vision, how he'd appeared to me. I knew Rhys hadn't, either. But he hadn't pushed, or asked. I'd once told him that I wanted to live with him, experience life with him, before we had children. I still held to that. There was so much to do, our days too busy to even think about bringing a child into the world, my life full enough that even though it would be a blessing beyond measure, I would endure the twice-a-year agony for the time being. And help my sisters with them, too. Fae fertility cycles had never been something I'd considered, and explaining them to Nesta and Elain had been uncomfortable, to say the least. Nesta had only stared at me in that unblinking, cold way. Elain had blushed, muttering about the impropriety of such things. But they had been Made nearly six months ago. It was coming. Soon. If being Made somehow didn't interfere with it. I'd have to find some way to convince Nesta to send word when hers started. Like hell would I allow her to endure that pain alone. I wasn't sure she could endure that pain alone. Elain, at least, would be too polite to send Lucien away when he wanted to help. She was too polite to send him away on a normal day. She just ignored him or barely spoke to him until he got the hint and left. As far as I knew, he hadn't come within touching distance since the aftermath of that final battle. No, she tended to her gardens here, silently mourning her lost human life. Mourning Graysen. How Lucien withstood it, I didn't know. Not that he'd shown any interest in bridging that gap between them. "Where did you go?" Rhys asked, draining his wine and setting aside the tray. If I wanted to talk, he'd listen. If I didn't want to, he would let it go. It had been our unspoken bargain from the start--to listen when the other needed, and give space when it was required. He was still slowly working his way through telling me all that had been done to him, all he'd witnessed Under the Mountain. There were still nights when I'd kiss away his tears, one by one. This subject, however, was not so difficult to discuss. "I was thinking about Elain," I said, leaning against the edge of the desk. "And Lucien." Rhys arched a brow, and I told him. When I finished, his face was contemplative. "Will Lucien be joining us for the Solstice?" "Is it bad if he does?" Rhys let out a hum, his wings tucking in further. I had no idea how he withstood the cold while flying, even with a shield. Whenever I'd tried these past few weeks, I'd barely lasted more than a few minutes. The only time I'd managed had been last week, when our flight from the House of Wind had turned far warmer. Rhys said at last, "I can stomach being around him." "I'm sure he'd love to hear that thrilling endorsement." A half smile that had me walking toward him, stopping between his legs. He braced his hands idly on my hips. "I can let go of the taunts," he said, scanning my face. "And the fact that he still harbors some hope of one day reuniting with Tamlin. But I cannot let go of how he treated you after Under the Mountain." "I can. I've forgiven him for that." "Well, you'll forgive me if I can't." Icy rage darkened the stars in those violet eyes. "You still can barely talk to Nesta," I said. "Yet Elain you can talk to nicely." "Elain is Elain." "If you blame one, you have to blame the other." "No, I don't. Elain is Elain," he repeated. "Nesta is ... she's Illyrian. I mean that as a compliment, but she's an Illyrian at heart. So there is no excuse for her behavior." "She more than made up for it this summer, Rhys." "I cannot forgive anyone who made you suffer." Cold, brutal words, spoken with such casual grace. But he still didn't care about those who'd made him suffer. I ran a hand over the swirls and whorls of tattoos across his muscled chest, tracing the intricate lines. He shuddered under my fingers, wings twitching. "They're my family. You have to forgive Nesta at some point." He rested his brow against my chest, right between my breasts, and wrapped his arms around my waist. For a long minute, he only breathed in the scent of me, as if taking it deep into his lungs. "Should that be my Solstice gift to you?" he murmured. "Forgiving Nesta for letting her fourteen-year-old sister go into those woods?" I hooked a finger under his chin and tugged his head up. "You won't get any Solstice gift at all from me if you keep up this nonsense." A wicked grin. "Prick," I hissed, making to step back, but his arms tightened around me. We fell silent, just staring at each other. Then Rhys said down the bond, A thought for a thought, Feyre darling? I smiled at the request, the old game between us. But it faded as I answered, I went into the Rainbow today. Oh ? He nuzzled the plane of my stomach. I dragged my hands through his dark hair, savoring the silken strands against my calluses. There's an artist, Ressina. She invited me to come paint with her and some others in two nights. Rhys pulled back to scan my face, then arched a brow. "Why do you not sound excited about it?" I gestured to our room, the town house, and blew out a breath. "I haven't painted anything in a while." Not since we'd returned from battle. Rhys remained quiet, letting me sort through the jumble of words inside me. "It feels selfish," I admitted. "To take the time, when there is so much to do and--" "It is not selfish." His hands tightened on my hips. "If you want to paint, then paint, Feyre." "People in this city still don't have homes." "You taking a few hours every day to paint won't change that." "It's not just that." I leaned down until my brow rested on his, the citrus-and- sea scent of him filling my lungs, my heart. "There are too many of them-- things I want to paint. Need to. Picking one ..." I took an unsteady breath and pulled back. "I'm not quite certain I'm ready to see what emerges when I paint some of them." "Ah." He traced soothing, loving lines down my back. "Whether you join them this week, or two months from now, I think you should go. Try it out." He surveyed the room, the thick rug, as if he could see the entire town house beneath. "We can turn your old bedroom into a studio, if you want--" "It's fine," I cut him off. "It--the light isn't ideal in there." At his raised brows, I admitted, "I checked. The only room that's good for it is the sitting room, and I'd rather not fill up the house with the reek of paint." "I don't think anyone would mind." "I'd mind. And I like privacy, anyway. The last thing I want is Amren standing behind me, critiquing my work as I go." Rhys chuckled. "Amren can be dealt with." "I'm not sure you and I are talking about the same Amren, then." He grinned, tugging me close again, and murmured against my stomach, "It's your birthday on Solstice." "So?" I'd been trying to forget that fact. And let the others forget it, too. Rhys's smile became subdued--feline. "So, that means you get two presents." I groaned. "I never should have told you." "You were born on the longest night of the year." His fingers again stroked down my back. Lower. "You were meant to be at my side from the very beginning." He traced the seam of my backside with a long, lazy stroke. With me standing before him like this, he could instantly smell the shift in my scent as my core heated. I managed to say down the bond before words failed me, Your turn. A thought for a thought. He pressed a kiss to my stomach, right over my navel. "Have I told you about that first time you winnowed and tackled me into the snow?" I smacked his shoulder, the muscle beneath hard as stone. "That's your thought for a thought?" He smiled against my stomach, his fingers still exploring, coaxing. "You tackled me like an Illyrian. Perfect form, a direct hit. But then you lay on top of me, panting. All I wanted to do was get us both naked." "Why am I not surprised?" Yet I threaded my fingers through his hair. The fabric of my dressing gown was barely more than cobwebs between us as he huffed a laugh onto my belly. I hadn't bothered putting on anything beneath. "You drove me out of my mind. All those months. I still don't quite believe I get to have this. Have you." My throat tightened. That was the thought he wanted to trade, needed to share. "I wanted you, even Under the Mountain," I said softly. "I chalked it up to those horrible circumstances, but after we killed her, when I couldn't tell anyone how I felt--about how truly bad things were, I still told you. I've always been able to talk to you. I think my heart knew you were mine long before I ever realized it." His eyes gleamed, and he buried his face between my breasts again, hands caressing my back. "I love you," he breathed. "More than life, more than my territory, more than my crown." I knew. He'd given up that life to reforge the Cauldron, the fabric of the world itself, so I might survive. I hadn't had it in me to be furious with him about it afterward, or in the months since. He'd lived--it was a gift I would never stop being grateful for. And in the end, though, we'd saved each other. All of us had. I kissed the top of his head. "I love you," I whispered onto his blue-black hair. Rhys's hands clamped on the back of my thighs, the only warning before he smoothly twisted us, pinning me to the bed as he nuzzled my neck. "A week," he said onto my skin, gracefully folding his wings behind him. "A week to have you in this bed. That's all I want for Solstice." I laughed breathlessly, but he flexed his hips, driving against me, the barriers between us little more than scraps of cloth. He brushed a kiss against my mouth, his wings a dark wall behind his shoulders. "You think I'm joking." "We're strong for High Fae," I mused, fighting to concentrate as he tugged on my earlobe with his teeth, "but a week straight of sex? I don't think I'd be able to walk. Or you'd be able to function, at least with your favorite part." He nipped the delicate arch of my ear, and my toes curled. "Then you'll just have to kiss my favorite part and make it better." I slid a hand to that favorite part --my favorite part--and gripped him through his undershorts. He groaned, pressing himself into my touch, and the garment disappeared, leaving only my palm against the velvet hardness of him. "We need to get dressed," I managed to say, even as my hand stroked over him. "Later," he ground out, sucking on my lower lip. Indeed. Rhys pulled back, tattooed arms braced on either side of my head. One was covered with his Illyrian markings, the other with the twin tattoo to the one on my arms: the last bargain we'd made. To remain together through all that waited ahead. My core pounded, sister to my thunderous heartbeat, the need to have him buried inside me, to have him-- As if in mockery of those twin beats within me, a knocking rattled the bedroom door. "Just so you're aware," Mor chirped from the other side, "we do have to go soon." Rhys let out a low growl that skittered over my skin, his hair slipping over his brow as he turned his head toward the door. Nothing but predatory intent in his glazed eyes. "We have thirty minutes," he said with remarkable smoothness. "And it takes you two hours to get dressed," Mor quipped through the door. A sly pause. "And I'm not talking about Feyre." Rhys grumbled a laugh and lowered his brow against mine. I closed my eyes, breathing him in, even while my fingers unfurled from around him. "This isn't finished," he promised me, his voice rough, before he kissed the hollow of my throat and pulled away. "Go terrorize someone else," he called to Mor, rolling his neck as his wings vanished and he stalked for the bathing room. "I need to primp." Mor chuckled, her light footsteps soon fading away. I slumped against the pillows and breathed deep, cooling the need that coursed through me. Water gurgled in the bathing room, followed by a soft yelp. I wasn't the only one in need of cooling, it seemed. Indeed, when I strode into the bathing room a few minutes later, Rhys was still cringing as he washed himself in the tub. A dip of my fingers into the soapy water confirmed my suspicions: it was ice- cold. <|title|>Chapter 6: Morrigan <|startofchapter|>There was no light in this place. There never had been. Even the evergreen garlands, holly wreaths, and crackling birchwood fires in honor of the Solstice couldn't pierce the eternal darkness that dwelled in the Hewn City. It was not the sort of darkness that Mor had come to love in Velaris, the sort of darkness that was as much a part of Rhys as his blood. It was the darkness of rotting things, of decay. The smothering darkness that withered all life. And the golden-haired male standing before her in the throne room, amongst the towering pillars carved with those scaled, slithering beasts--he had been created from it. Thrived in it. "I apologize if we interrupted your festivities," Rhysand purred to him. To Keir. And to the male beside him. Eris. The throne room was empty now. A word from Feyre, and the usual ilk who dined and danced and schemed here were gone, leaving only Keir and the High Lord of Autumn's eldest son. The former spoke first, adjusting the lapels on his black jacket. "To what do we owe this pleasure?" The sneering tone. She could still hear the hissed insults beneath it, whispered long ago in her family's private suite, whispered at every meeting and gathering when her cousin was not present. Half-breed monstrosity. A disgrace to the bloodline. "High Lord." The words came out of her without thought. And her voice, the voice she used here ... Not her own. Never her own, never down here with them in the darkness. Mor kept her voice just as cold and unforgiving as she corrected, "To what do we owe this pleasure, High Lord." She didn't bother to keep her teeth from flashing. Keir ignored her. His preferred method of insult: to act as if a person weren't worth the breath it'd take to speak with them. Try something new, you miserable bastard. Rhys cut in before Mor could contemplate saying just that, his dark power filling the room, the mountain, "We came, of course, to wish you and yours well for the Solstice. But it seems you already had a guest to entertain." Az's information had been flawless, as it always was. When he'd found her reading up on Winter Court customs in the House of Wind's library this morning, she hadn't asked how he'd learned that Eris was to come tonight. She'd long since learned that Az was just as likely not to tell her. But the Autumn Court male standing beside Keir ... Mor made herself look at Eris. Into his amber eyes. Colder than any hall of Kallias's court. They had been that way from the moment she'd met him, five centuries ago. Eris laid a pale hand on the breast of his pewter-colored jacket, the portrait of Autumn Court gallantry. "I thought I'd extend some Solstice greetings of my own." That voice. That silky, arrogant voice. It had not altered, not in tone or timbre, in the passing centuries, either. Had not changed since that day. Warm, buttery sunlight through the leaves, setting them glowing like rubies and citrines. The damp, earthen scent of rotting things beneath the leaves and roots she lay upon. Had been thrown and left upon. Everything hurt. Everything. She couldn't move. Couldn't do anything but watch the sun drift through the rich canopy far overhead, listen to the wind between the silvery trunks. And the center of that pain, radiating outward like living fire with each uneven, rasping breath ... Light, steady steps crunched on the leaves. Six sets. A border guard, a patrol. Help. Someone to help-- A male voice, foreign and deep, swore. Then went silent. Went silent as a single pair of steps approached. She couldn't turn her head, couldn't bear the agony. Could do nothing but inhale each wet, shuddering breath. "Don't touch her. " Those steps stopped. It was not a warning to protect her. Defend her. She knew the voice that spoke. Had dreaded hearing it. She felt him approach now. Felt each reverberation in the leaves, the moss, the roots. As if the very land shuddered before him. "No one touches her," he said. Eris. "The moment we do, she's our responsibility. " Cold, unfeeling words. "But--but they nailed a --" "No one touches her. " Nailed. They had spiked nails into her. Had pinned her down as she screamed, pinned her down as she roared at them, then begged them. And then they had taken out those long, brutal iron nails. And the hammer. Three of them. Three strikes of the hammer, drowned out by her screaming, by the pain. She began shaking, hating it as much as she'd hated the begging. Her body bellowed in agony, those nails in her abdomen relentless. A pale, beautiful face appeared above her, blocking out the jewel-like leaves above. Unmoved. Impassive. "I take it you do not wish to live here, Morrigan. " She would rather die here, bleed out here. She would rather die and return -- return as something wicked and cruel, and shred them all apart. He must have read it in her eyes. A small smile curved his lips. "I thought so." Eris straightened, turning. Her fingers curled in the leaves and loamy soil. She wished she could grow claws--grow claws as Rhys could--and rip out that pale throat. But that was not her gift. Her gift... her gift had left her here. Broken and bleeding. Eris took a step away. Someone behind him blurted, "We can't just leave her to --" "We can, and we will," Eris said simply, his pace unfaltering as he strode away. "She chose to sully herself; her family chose to deal with her like garbage. I have already told them my decision in this matter. " A long pause, crueler than the rest. "And I am not in the habit of fucking Illyrian leftovers. " She couldn't stop it, then. The tears that slid out, hot and burning. Alone. They would leave her alone here. Her friends did not know where she had gone. She barely knew where she was. "But --" That dissenting voice cut in again. "Move out. " There was no dissension after that. And when their steps faded away, then vanished, the silence returned. The sun and the wind and the leaves. The blood and the iron and the soil beneath her nails. The pain. A subtle nudge of Feyre's hand against her own drew her out, away from that bloody clearing just over the border of the Autumn Court. Mor threw her High Lady a grateful glance, which Feyre smartly ignored, already returning her attention to the conversation. Never having taken her focus off it in the first place. Feyre had fallen into the role of mistress of this horrible city with far more ease than she had. Clad in a sparkling onyx gown, the crescent-moon diadem atop her head, her friend looked every part the imperious ruler. As much a part of this place as the twining, serpentine beasts carved and etched everywhere. What Keir, perhaps, had one day pictured for Mor herself. Not the red gown Mor wore, bright and bold, or the gold jewelry at her wrists, her ears, shimmering like sunlight down here in the gloom. "If you wanted this little liaison to remain private," Rhys was saying with lethal calm, "perhaps a public gathering was not the wisest place to meet." Indeed. The Steward of the Hewn City waved a hand. "Why should we have anything to hide? After the war, we're all such good friends." She often dreamed of gutting him. Sometimes with a knife; sometimes with her own bare hands. "And how does your father's court fare, Eris?" A mild, bored question from Feyre. His amber eyes held nothing but distaste. A roaring filled Mor's head at that look. She could barely hear his drawled answer. Or Rhys's reply. It had once been her delight to taunt Keir and this court, to keep them on their toes. Hell, she'd even snapped a few of the Steward's bones this spring--after Rhys had shattered his arms into uselessness. Had been glad to do it, after what Keir had said to Feyre, and then delighted when her mother had banished her from their private quarters. An order that still held. But from the moment Eris had walked into that council chamber all those months ago ... You are over five hundred years old, she often reminded herself. She could face it, handle it better than this. I am not in the habit of fucking Illyrian leftovers. Even now, even after Azriel had found her in those woods, after Madja had healed her until no trace of those nails marred her stomach ... She should not have come here tonight. Her skin became tight, her stomach roiling. Coward. She had faced down enemies, fought in many wars, and yet this, these two males together-- Mor felt more than saw Feyre stiffen beside her at something Eris had said. Her High Lady answered Eris, "Your father is forbidden to cross into the human lands." No room for compromise with that tone, with the steel in Feyre's eyes. Eris only shrugged. "I don't think it's your call." Rhys slid his hands into his pockets, the portrait of casual grace. Yet the shadows and star-flecked darkness that wafted from him, that set the mountain shuddering beneath his every step--that was the true face of the High Lord of the Night Court. The most powerful High Lord in history. "I would suggest reminding Beron that territory expansion is not on the table. For any court." Eris wasn't fazed. Nothing had ever disturbed him, ruffled him. Mor had hated it from the moment she'd met him--that distance, that coldness. That lack of interest or feeling for the world. "Then I would suggest to you, High Lord, that you speak to your dear friend Tamlin about it." "Why." Feyre's question was sharp as a blade. Eris's mouth curved in an adder's smile. "Because Tamlin's territory is the only one that borders the human lands. I'd think that anyone looking to expand would have to go through the Spring Court first. Or at least obtain his permission." Another person she'd one day kill. If Feyre and Rhys didn't do it first. It didn't matter what Tamlin had done in the war, if he'd brought Beron and the human forces with him. If he'd played Hybern. It was another day, another female lying on the ground, that Mor would not forget, could not forgive. Rhys's cold face turned contemplative, though. She could easily read the reluctance in his eyes, the annoyance at having Eris tip him off, but information was information. Mor glanced toward Keir and found him watching her. Save for her initial order to the Steward, she had not spoken a word. Contributed to this meeting. Stepped up. She could see that in Keir's eyes. The satisfaction. Say something. Think of something to say. To strip him down to nothing. But Rhys deemed they were done, linking his arm through Feyre's and guiding them away, the mountain indeed trembling beneath their steps. What he'd said to Eris, Mor had no idea. Pathetic. Cowardly and pathetic. Truth is your gift. Truth is your curse. Say something. But the words to strike down her father did not come. Her red gown flowing behind her, Mor turned her back on him, on the smirking heir to Autumn, and followed her High Lord and Lady through the darkness and back into the light. <|title|>Chapter 7: Rhysand <|startofchapter|>"You really do know how to give Solstice presents, Az." I turned from the wall of windows in my private study at the House of Wind, Velaris awash in the hues of early morning. My spymaster and brother remained on the other side of the sprawling oak desk, the maps and documents he'd presented littering the surface. His expression might as well have been stone. Had been that way from the moment he'd knocked on the double doors to the study just after dawn. As if he'd known that sleep had been futile for me last night after Eris's not-so-subtle warning about Tamlin and his borders. Feyre hadn't mentioned it when we'd returned home. Hadn't seemed ready to discuss it: how to deal with the High Lord of Spring. She'd quickly fallen asleep, leaving me to brood before the fire in the sitting room. It was little wonder I'd flown up here before sunrise, eager for the biting cold to chase the weight of the sleepless night away from me. My wings were still numb in spots from the flight. "You wanted information," Az said mildly. At his side, Truth-Teller's obsidian hilt seemed to absorb the first rays of the sun. I rolled my eyes, leaning against the desk and gesturing to what he'd compiled. "You couldn't have waited until after Solstice for this particular gem?" One glance at Azriel's unreadable face and I added, "Don't bother to answer that." A corner of Azriel's mouth curled up, the shadows about him sliding over his neck like living tattoos, twins to the Illyrian ones marked beneath his leathers. Shadows different from anything my powers summoned, spoke to. Born in a lightless, airless prison meant to break him. Instead, he had learned its language. Though the cobalt Siphons were proof that his Illyrian heritage ran true, even the rich lore of that warrior-people, my warrior-people, did not have an explanation for where the shadowsinger gifts came from. They certainly weren't connected to the Siphons, to the raw killing power most Illyrians possessed and channeled through the stones to keep from destroying everything in its path. The bearer included. Drawing my eyes from the stones atop his hands, I frowned at the stack of papers Az had presented moments ago. "Have you told Cassian?" "I came right here," Azriel said. "He'll arrive soon enough, anyway." I chewed on my lip as I studied the territory map of Illyria. "It's more clans than I expected," I admitted and sent a flock of shadows skittering across the room to soothe the power now stirring, restless, in my veins. "Even in my worst- case calculations." "It's not every member of these clans," Az said, his grim face undermining his attempt to soften the blow. "This overall number just reflects the places where discontent is spreading, not where the majorities lie." He pointed with a scarred finger to one of the camps. "There are only two females here who seem to be spewing poison about the war. One a widow, and one a mother to a soldier." "Where there's smoke, there's fire," I countered. Azriel studied the map for a long minute. I gave him the silence, knowing that he'd speak only when he was damn well ready. As boys, Cassian and I had devoted hours to pummeling Az, trying to get him to speak. He'd never once yielded. "The Illyrians are pieces of shit," he said too quietly. I opened my mouth and shut it. Shadows gathered around his wings, trailing off him and onto the thick red mg. "They train and train as warriors, and yet when they don't come home, their families make us into villains for sending them to war?" "Their families have lost something irreplaceable," I said carefully. Azriel waved a scarred hand, his cobalt Siphon glinting with the movement as his fingers cut through the air. "They're hypocrites." "And what would you have me do, then? Disband the largest army in Prythian?" Az didn't answer. I held his gaze, though. Held that ice-cold stare that still sometimes scared the shit out of me. I'd seen what he'd done to his half brothers centuries ago. Still dreamed of it. The act itself wasn't what lingered. Every bit of it had been deserved. Every damn bit. But it was the frozen precipice that Az had plummeted into that sometimes rose from the pit of my memory. The beginnings of that frost cracked over his eyes now. So I said calmly, yet with little room for argument, "I am not going to disband the Illyrians. There is nowhere for them to go, anyway. And if we try to drag them out of those mountains, they might launch the very assault we're trying to defuse." Az said nothing. "But perhaps more pressing," I went on, jabbing a finger on the sprawling continent, "is the fact that the human queens have not returned to their own territories. They linger in that joint palace of theirs. Beyond that, Hybern's general populace is not too thrilled to have lost this war. And with the wall gone, who knows what other Fae territories might make a grab for human lands?" My jaw tightened at that last one. "This peace is tenuous." "I know that," Az said at last. "So we might need the Illyrians again before it is over. Need them willing to shed blood." Feyre knew. I'd been filling her in on every report and meeting. But this latest one ... "We will keep an eye on the dissenters," I finished, letting Az sense a rumble of the power that prowled inside me, let him feel that I meant every word. "Cassian knows it's growing amongst the camps and is willing to do whatever it takes to fix it." "He doesn't know just how many there are." "And perhaps we should wait to tell him. Until after the holiday." Az blinked. I explained quietly, "He's going to have enough to deal with. Let him enjoy the holiday while he can." Az and I made a point not to mention Nesta. Not amongst each other, and certainly not in front of Cassian. I didn't let myself contemplate it, either. Neither did Mor, given her unusual silence on the matter since the war had ended. "He'll be pissed at us for keeping it from him." "He already suspects much of it, so it's only confirmation at this point." Az ran a thumb down Truth-Teller's black hilt, the silver runes on the dark scabbard shimmering in the light. "What about the human queens?" "We continue to watch. You continue to watch." "Vassa and Jurian are still with Graysen. Do we loop them in?" A strange gathering, down in the human lands. With no queen ever having been appointed to the slice of territory at the base of Prythian, only a council of wealthy lords and merchants, Jurian had somehow stepped in to lead. Using Graysen's family estate as his seat of command. And Vassa ... She had stayed. Her keeper had granted her a reprieve from her curse--the enchantment that turned her into a firebird by day, woman again by night. And bound her to his lake deep in the continent. I'd never seen such spell work. I'd sent my power over her, Helion too, hunting for any possible threads to unbind it. I found none. It was as if the curse was woven into her very blood. But Vassa's freedom would end. Lucien had said as much months ago, and still visited her often enough that I knew nothing in that regard had improved. She would have to return to the lake, to the sorcerer-lord who kept her prisoner, sold to him by the very queens who had again gathered in their joint castle. Formerly Vassa's castle, too. "Vassa knows that the Queens of the Realm will be a threat until they are dealt with," I said at last. Another tidbit that Lucien had told us. Well, Az and me at least. "But unless the queens step out of line, it's not for us to face. If we sweep in, even to stop them from triggering another war, we'll be seen as conquerors, not heroes. We need the humans in other territories to trust us, if we can ever hope to achieve lasting peace." "Then perhaps Jurian and Vassa should deal with them. While Vassa is free to do so." I'd contemplated it. Feyre and I had discussed it long into the night. Several times. "The humans must be given a chance to rule themselves. Decide for themselves. Even our allies." "Send Lucien, then. As our human emissary." I studied the tenseness in Azriel's shoulders, the shadows veiling half of him from the sunlight. "Lucien is away right now." Az's brows rose. "Where?" I winked at him. "You're my spymaster. Shouldn't you know?" Az crossed his arms, face as elegant and cold as the legendary dagger at his side. "I don't make a point of looking after his movements." "Why?" Not a flicker of emotion. "He is Elain's mate." I waited. "It would be an invasion of her privacy to track him." To know when and if Lucien sought her out. What they did together. "You sure about that?" I asked quietly. Azriel's Siphons guttered, the stones turning as dark and foreboding as the deepest sea. "Where did Lucien go." I straightened at the pure order in the words. But I said, voice slipping into a drawl, "He went to the Spring Court. He'll be there for Solstice." "Tamlin kicked him out the last time." "He did. But he invited him for the holiday." Likely because Tamlin realized he'd be spending it alone in that manor. Or whatever was left of it. I had no pity where that was concerned. Not when I could still feel Feyre's undiluted terror as Tamlin tore through the study. As he locked her in that house. Lucien had let him do it, too. But I'd made my peace with him. Or tried to. With Tamlin, it was more complicated than that. More complicated than I let myself usually dwell on. He was still in love with Feyre. I couldn't blame him for it. Even if it made me want to rip out his throat. I shoved the thought away. "I'll discuss Vassa and Jurian with Lucien when he returns. See if he's up for another visit." I angled my head. "Do you think he can handle being around Graysen?" Az's expressionless face was precisely the reason he'd never lost to us at cards. "Why should I be the judge of that?" "You mean to tell me that you xveren't bluffing when you said you didn't track Lucien's every movement?" Nothing. Absolutely nothing on that face, on his scent. The shadows, whatever the hell they were, hid too well. Too much. Azriel only said coldly, "If Lucien kills Graysen, then good riddance." I was inclined to agree. So was Feyre--and Nesta. "I'm half tempted to give Nesta hunting rights for Solstice." "You're getting her a gift?" No. Sort of. "I'd think bankrolling her apartment and drinking was gift enough." Az ran a hand through his dark hair. "Are we ..." Unusual for him to stumble with words. "Are we supposed to get the sisters presents?" "No," I said, and meant it. Az seemed to loose a sigh of relief. Seemed to, since all but a breath of air passed from his lips. "I don't think Nesta gives a shit, and I don't think Elain expects to receive anything from us. I'd leave the sisters to exchange presents amongst themselves." Az nodded distantly. I drummed my fingers on the map, right over the Spring Court. "I can tell Lucien myself in a day or two. About going to Graysen's manor." Azriel arched a brow. "You mean to visit the Spring Court?" I wished I could say otherwise. But I instead told him what Eris had implied: that Tamlin either might not care to enforce his borders with the human realm or might be open to letting anyone through them. I doubted I'd get a decent night's rest until I found out for myself. When I finished, Az picked at an invisible speck of dust on the leather scales of his gauntlet. The only sign of his annoyance. "I can go with you." I shook my head. "It's better to do this on my own." "Are you talking about seeing Lucien or Tamlin?" "Both." Lucien, I could stomach. Tamlin ... Perhaps I didn't want any witnesses for what might be said. Or done. "Will you ask Feyre to join you?" One look in Azriel's hazel eyes and I knew he was well aware of my reasons for going alone. "I'll ask her in a few hours," I said, "but I doubt she will want to come. And I doubt I will try my best to convince her to change her mind." Peace. We had peace within our grasp. And yet there were debts left unpaid that I was not above righting. Az nodded knowingly. He'd always understood me best--more than the others. Save my mate. Whether it was his gifts that allowed him to do so, or merely the fact that he and I were more similar than most realized, I'd never learned. But Azriel knew a thing or two about old scores to settle. Imbalances to be righted. So did most of my inner circle, I supposed. "No word on Bryaxis, I take it." I peered toward the marble beneath my boots, as if I could see all the way to the library beneath this mountain and the now-empty lower levels that had once been occupied. Az studied the floor as well. "Not a whisper. Or a scream, for that matter." I chuckled. My brother had a sly, wicked sense of humor. I'd planned to hunt Bryaxis down for months now--to take Feyre and let her track down the entity that, for lack of a better explanation, seemed to be fear itself. But, as with so many of my plans for my mate, running this court and figuring out the world beyond it had gotten in the way. "Do you want me to hunt it down?" An easy, unruffled question. I waved a hand, my mating band catching in the morning light. That I hadn't heard from Feyre yet told me enough: still asleep. And as tempting as it was to wake her just to hear the sound of her voice, I had little desire to have my balls nailed to the wall for disrupting her sleep. "Let Bryaxis enjoy the Solstice as well," I said. A rare smile curled Az's mouth. "Generous of you." I inclined my head dramatically, the portrait of regal magnanimity, and dropped into my chair before propping my feet on the desk. "When do you head out for Rosehall?" "The morning after Solstice," he supplied, turning toward the glittering sprawl of Velaris. He winced--slightly. "I still need to do some shopping before I go." I offered my brother a crooked smile. "Buy her something from me, will you? And put it on my account this time." I knew Az wouldn't, but he nodded all the same. <|title|>Chapter 8: Cassian <|startofchapter|>A storm was coming. Right in time for Solstice. It wouldn't hit for another day or two, but Cassian could smell it on the wind. The others in the Windhaven camp could as well, the usual flurry of activity now a swift, efficient thrum. Houses and tents checked, stews and roasts being prepared, people departing or arriving earlier than expected to outrace it. Cassian had given the girls the day off because of it. Had ordered all training and exercises, males included, to be postponed until after the storm. Limited patrols would still go out, only by those skilled and eager to test themselves against the sure-to-be-brutal winds and frigid temperatures. Even in a storm, enemies could strike. If the storm was as great as he sensed it would be, this camp would be buried under snow for a good few days. Which is why he wound up standing in the small craftsman center of the camp, beyond the tents and handful of permanent houses. Only a few shops occupied either side of the unpaved road, usually just a dirt track in warmer months. A general goods store, which had already posted a sold-out sign, two blacksmiths, a cobbler, a wood-carver, and a clothier. The wooden building of the clothier was relatively new. At least by Illyrian standards--perhaps ten years old. Above the first-floor store seemed to be living quarters, lamps burning brightly within. And in the glass display window of the store: exactly what he'd come seeking. A bell above the leaded-glass door tinkled as Cassian entered, tucking his wings in tight even with the broader-than-usual doorway. Warmth hit him, welcome and delicious, and he quickly shut the door behind him. The slender young female behind the pine counter was already standing still. Watching him. Cassian noticed the scars on her wings first. The careful, brutal scars down the center tendons. Nausea roiled in his gut, even as he offered a smile and strode toward the polished counter. Clipped. She'd been clipped. "I'm looking for Proteus," he said, meeting the female's brown eyes. Sharp and shrewd. Taken aback by his presence, but unafraid. Her dark hair was braided simply, offering a clear view of her tan skin and narrow, angular face. Not a face of beauty, but striking. Interesting. Her eyes did not lower, not in the way Illyrian females had been ordered and trained to do. No, even with the clipping scars that proved traditional ways ran brutally deep in her family, she held his stare. It reminded him of Nesta, that stare. Frank and unsettling. "Proteus was my father," she said, untying her white apron to reveal a simple brown dress before she emerged from behind the counter. Was. "I'm sorry," he said. "He didn't come home from the war." Cassian kept his chin from lowering. "I am even sorrier, then." "Why should you be?" An unmoved, uninterested question. She extended a slender hand. "I'm Emerie. This is my shop now." A line in the sand. And an unusual one. Cassian shook her hand, unsurprised to find her grip strong and unfaltering. He'd known Proteus. Had been surprised when the male had joined the ranks during the war. Cassian knew he'd had one daughter and no sons. No close male relatives, either. With his death, the store would have gone to one of them. But for his daughter to step up, to insist this store was hers, and to keep running it ... He surveyed the small, tidy space. Glanced through the front window to the shop across the street, the sold-out sign there. Stock filled Emerie's store. As if she'd just gotten a fresh shipment. Or no one had bothered to come in. Ever. For Proteus to have owned and built this place, in a camp where the idea of shops was one that had only started in the past fifty or so years, meant he'd had a good deal of money. Enough perhaps for Emerie to coast on. But not forever. "It certainly seems like it's your shop," he said at last, turning his attention back to her. Emerie had drifted a few feet away, her back straight, chin upraised. He'd seen Nesta in that particular pose, too. He called it her I Will Slay My Enemies pose. Cassian had named about two dozen poses for Nesta at this point. Ranging from I Will Eat Your Eyes for Breakfast to I Don't Want Cassian to Know I'm Reading Smut. The latter was his particular favorite. Suppressing his smile, Cassian gestured to the pretty piles of shearling-lined gloves and thick scarves that bedecked the window display. 'Til take every bit of winter gear you have." Her dark brows rose toward her hairline. "Really?" He fished a hand into the pocket of his leathers to pull out his money pouch and extended it to her. "That should cover it." Emerie weighed the small leather pouch in her palm. "I don't need charity." "Then take whatever the cost is for your gloves and boots and scarves and coats out of it and give the rest back to me." She made no answer before chucking the pouch on the counter and bustling to the window display. Everything he asked for she gathered onto the counter in neat piles and stacks, even going into the back room behind the counter and emerging with more. Until there wasn't an empty bit of space on the polished counter, and only the sound of clinking coins filled the shop. She wordlessly handed him back his pouch. He refrained from mentioning that she was one of the few Illyrians who'd ever accepted his money. Most had spat on it, or thrown it on the ground. Even after Rhys had become High Lord. Emerie surveyed the piles of winter goods on the counter. "Do you want me to find some bags and boxes?" He shook his head. "That won't be necessary." Again, her dark brows rose. Cassian reached into his money pouch and set three heavy coins onto the only sliver of empty space he could find on the counter. "For the delivery charges." "To whom?" Emerie blurted. "You live above the shop, don't you?" A terse nod. "Then I assume you know enough about this camp and who has plenty, and who has nothing. A storm is going to hit in a few days. I'd like you to distribute this amongst those who might feel its impact the hardest." She blinked, and he saw her reassessment. Emerie studied the piled goods. "They--a lot of them don't like me," she said, more softly than he'd heard. "They don't like me, either. You're in good company." A reluctant curl of her lips at that. Not quite a smile. Certainly not with a male she didn't know. "Consider it good advertising for this shop," he went on. "Tell them it was a gift from their High Lord." "Why not you?" He didn't want to answer that. Not today. "Better to leave me out of it." Emerie took his measure for a moment, then nodded. "I'll make sure this has been delivered to those who need it most by sundown." Cassian bowed his head in thanks and headed for the glass door. The door and windows on this building alone had likely cost more than most Illyrians could afford in years. Proteus had been a wealthy man--a good businessman. And a decent warrior. To have risked this by going to war, he had to have possessed some shred of pride. But the scars on Emerie's wings, proof that she'd never taste the wind again Half of him wished that Proteus were still alive. If only so he could kill the male himself. Cassian reached for the brass handle, the metal cold against his palm. "Lord Cassian." He peered over a shoulder to where Emerie still stood behind the counter. He didn't bother to correct her, to say that he did not and would never accept using lord before his name. "Happy Solstice," she said tersely. Cassian flashed her a smile. "You, too. Send word if you have any trouble with the deliveries." Her narrow chin rose. "I'm sure I won't need to." Fire in those words. Emerie would make the families take them, whether they wanted to or not. He'd seen that fire before--and the steel. He half wondered what might happen if the two of them ever met. What might come of it. Cassian shouldered his way out of the shop and into the freezing day, the bell tinkling in his wake. A herald of the storm to come. Not just the storm that was barreling toward these mountains. But perhaps one that had been brewing here for a long, long time. <|title|>Chapter 9: Feyre <|startofchapter|>I shouldn't have eaten dinner. It was the thought tumbling through my head as I neared the studio Ressina occupied, darkness full overhead. As I saw the lights spilling into the frosted street, mixing with the glow from the lamps. At this hour, three days before Solstice, it was packed with shoppers--not just residents of the quarter, but those from across the city and its countryside. So many High Fae and faeries, many of the latter kinds that I had never seen before. But all smiling, all seeming to shimmer with merriment and goodwill. It was impossible not to feel the thrum of that energy under my skin, even as nerves threatened to send me flying home, frigid wind or no. I'd hauled a pack full of supplies down here, a canvas tucked under my arm, unsure whether they would be provided or if it would look rude to show up at Ressina's studio and appear to have expected to be given them. I'd walked from the town house, not wanting to winnow with so many things, and not wanting to risk losing the canvas to the tug of the bitter wind if I flew. Staying warm aside, shielding against the wind while still flying on the wind was something I'd yet to master, despite my now-occasional lessons with Rhys or Azriel, and with additional weight in my arms, plus the cold ... I didn't know how the Illyrians did it, up in their mountains, where it was cold all year. Perhaps I'd find out soon, if the grumblings and malcontent spread across the war-camps. Not the time to think about it. My stomach was already uneasy enough. I paused a house away from Ressina's studio, my palms sweating within my gloves. I'd never painted with a group before. I rarely liked to share my paintings with anyone. And this first time back in front of a canvas, unsure of what might come spilling out of me ... A tug on the bond. Everything all right? A casual, soft question, the cadence of Rhys's voice soothing the tremors along my nerves. He'd told me where he planned to go tomorrow. What he planned to inquire about. He'd asked me if I'd like to go with him. I'd said no. I might owe Tamlin my mate's life, I might have told Tamlin that I wished him peace and happiness, but I did not wish to see him. Speak with him. Deal with him. Not for a good long while. Perhaps forever. Maybe it was because of that, because I'd felt worse after declining Rhys's invitation than I had when he'd asked, that I'd ventured out into the Rainbow tonight. But now, faced with Ressina's communal studio, already hearing the laughter flitting out from where she and others had gathered for their weekly paint-in, my resolve sputtered out. I don't know if I can do this. Rhys was quiet for a moment. Do you want me to come with you? To paint? I'd be an excellent nude model. I smiled, not caring that I was by myself in the street with countless people streaming past me. My hood concealed most of my face, anyway. You'll forgive me if I don't feel like sharing the glory that is you with anyone else. Perhaps I'll model for you later, then. A sensuous brush down the bond that had my blood heating. It's been a while since we had paint involved. That cabin and kitchen table flashed into my mind, and my mouth went a bit dry. Rogue. A chuckle. If you want to go in, then go in. If you don't, then don't. It's your call. I frowned down at the canvas tucked under one arm, the box of paints cradled in the other. Frowned toward the studio thirty feet away, the shadows thick between me and that golden spill of light. I know what I want to do. No one noticed me winnow inside the boarded-up gallery and studio space down the street. And with the boards over the windows, no one noticed the balls of faelight that I kindled and set to floating in the air on a gentle wind. Of course, with the boards over empty windows, and no occupant for months, the main room was freezing. Cold enough that I set down my supplies and bounced on my toes as I surveyed the space. It had probably been lovely before the attack: a massive window faced southward, letting in endless sunshine, and skylights--also boarded up--dotted the vaulted ceiling. The gallery in the front was perhaps thirty feet wide, fifty feet deep, with a counter against one wall halfway back, and a door to what had to be the studio space or storage in the rear. A quick examination told me I was half right: storage was in the back, but no natural light for painting. Only narrow windows above a row of cracked sinks, a few metal counters still stained with paint, and old cleaning supplies. And paint. Not paint itself, but the smell of it. I breathed in deep, feeling it settle into my bones, letting the quiet of the space settle, too. The gallery up front had been her studio as well. Polina must have painted while she chatted with customers surveying the hung art whose outlines I could barely make out against the white walls. The floors beneath them were gray stone, kernels of shattered glass still shining between the cracks. I didn't want to do this first painting in front of others. I could barely do it in front of myself. It was enough to drive away any guilt in regard to ignoring Ressina's offer to join her. I'd made her no promises. So I summoned my flame to begin warming the space, setting little balls of it burning midair throughout the gallery. Lighting it further. Warming it back to life. Then I went in search of a stool. <|title|>Chapter 10: Feyre <|startofchapter|>I painted and painted and painted. My heart thundered the entire time, steady as a war-drum. I painted until my back cramped and my stomach gurgled with demands for hot cocoa and dessert. I'd known what needed to come out of me the moment I perched on the rickety stool I'd dusted off from the back. I'd barely been able to hold the paintbrush steady enough to make the first few strokes. From fear, yes. I was honest enough with myself to admit that. But also from the sheer unleashing of it, as if I were a racehorse freed from my pen, the image in my mind a dashing vision that I sprinted to keep up with. But it began to emerge. Began to take form. And in its wake, a sort of quiet followed, as if it were a layer of snow blanketing the earth. Clearing away what was beneath. More cleansing, more soothing than any of the hours I'd spent rebuilding this city. Equally as fulfilling, yes, but the painting, the unleashing and facing it, was a release. A first stitch to close a wound. The tower bells of Velaris sang twelve before I stopped. Before I lowered my brush and stared at what I'd created. Stared at what gazed back. Me. Or how I'd been in the Ouroboros, that beast of scale and claw and darkness; rage and joy and cold. All of me. What lurked beneath my skin. I had not run from it. And I did not run from it now. Yes--the first stitch to close a wound. That's how it felt. With my brush dangling between my knees, with that beast forever on canvas, my body went a bit limp. Boneless. I scanned the gallery, the street behind the boarded-up windows. No one had come to inquire about the lights in the hours I'd been here. I stood at last, groaning as I stretched. I couldn't take it with me. Not when the painting had to dry, and the damp night air off the river and distant sea would be terrible for it. I certainly wasn't going to bring it back to the town house for someone to find. Even Rhys. But here ... No one would know, should someone come in, who had painted it. I hadn't signed my name. Didn't want to. If I left it here to dry overnight, if I came back tomorrow, there would certainly be some closet in the House of Wind where I might hide it afterward. Tomorrow, then. I'd come back tomorrow to claim it. <|title|>Chapter 11: Rhysand <|startofchapter|>It was Spring, and yet it wasn't. It was not the land I had once roamed in centuries past, or even visited almost a year ago. The sun was mild, the day clear, distant dogwoods and lilacs still in eternal bloom. Distant--because on the estate, nothing bloomed at all. The pink roses that had once climbed the pale stone walls of the sweeping manor house were nothing but tangled webs of thorns. The fountains had gone dry, the hedges untrimmed and shapeless. The house itself had looked better the day after Amarantha's cronies had trashed it. Not for any visible signs of destruction, but for the general quiet. The lack of life. Though the great oak doors were undeniably worse for wear. Deep, long claw marks had been slashed down them. Standing on the top step of the marble staircase that led to those front doors, I surveyed the brutal gashes. My money was on Tamlin having inflicted them after Feyre had duped him and his court. But Tamlin's temper had always been his downfall. Any bad day could have produced the gouge marks. Perhaps today would produce more of them. The smirk was easy to summon. So was the casual stance, a hand in the pocket of my black jacket, no wings or Illyrian leathers in sight, as I knocked on the ruined doors. Silence. Then-- Tamlin answered the door himself. I wasn't sure what to remark on: the haggard male before me, or the dark house behind him. An easy mark. Too easy of a mark, to mock the once-fine clothes desperate for a wash, the shaggy hair that needed a trim. The empty manor, not a servant in sight, no Solstice decorations to be found. The green eyes that met mine weren't the ones I was accustomed to, either. Haunted and bleak. Not a spark. It would be a matter of minutes to fillet him, body and soul. To finish what had undoubtedly started that day Feyre had called out silently at their wedding, and I had come. But--peace. We had peace within our sights. I could rip him apart after we attained it. "Lucien claimed you would come," Tamlin said by way of greeting, voice as flat and lifeless as his eyes, a hand still braced on the door. "Funny, I thought his mate was the seer." Tamlin only stared at me, either ignoring or missing the humor. "What do you want." No whisper of sound behind him. On any acre of this estate. Not even a note of birdsong. "I came to have a little chat." I offered him a half grin that I knew made him see red. "Can I trouble you for a cup of tea?" The halls were dim, the embroidered curtains drawn. A tomb. This place was a tomb. With each step toward what had once been the library, the dust and silence pressed in. Tamlin didn't speak, didn't offer any explanations for the vacant house. For the rooms we passed, some of the carved doors cracked open enough for me to behold the destruction inside. Shattered furniture, shredded paintings, cracked walls. Lucien had not come here to make amends during Solstice, I realized as Tamlin opened the door to the dark library. Lucien had come here out of pity. Mercy. My sight adjusted to the darkness before Tamlin waved a hand, igniting the faelights in their glass bowls. He hadn't destroyed this room yet. Had likely taken me to the one chamber in this house that had usable furniture. I kept my mouth shut as we strode for a large desk in the center of the space, Tamlin claiming an ornate cushioned chair on one side of it. The only thing he had that was close to a throne these days. I slid into the matching seat across from him, the pale wood groaning in protest. The set had likely been meant to accommodate tittering courtiers, not two full-grown warriors. Quiet fell, as thick as the emptiness in this house. "If you've come to gloat, you can spare yourself the effort." I put a hand on my chest. "Why should I bother?" No humor. "What did you want to talk about?" I made a good show of surveying the books, the vaulted, painted ceiling. "Where's my dear friend Lucien?" "Hunting for our dinner." "No taste for such things these days?" Tamlin's eyes remained dull. "He left before I was awake." Hunting for dinner--because there were no servants here to make food. Or buy it. I couldn't say I felt bad for him. Only for Lucien, once again stuck with being his crony. I crossed an ankle over a knee and leaned back in my chair. "What's this I hear about you not enforcing your borders?" A beat of quiet. Then Tamlin gestured toward the door. "Do you see any sentries around to do it?" Even they had abandoned him. Interesting. "Feyre did her work thoroughly, didn't she." A flash of white teeth, a glimmer of light in his eyes. "With your coaching, I have no doubt." I smiled. "Oh, no. That was all her. Clever, isn't she." Tamlin gripped the curved arm of his chair. "I thought the High Lord of the Night Court couldn't be bothered to brag." I didn't smile as I countered with, "I suppose you think I should be thanking you, for stepping up to assist in reviving me." "I have no illusions that the day you thank me for anything, Rhysand, is the day the burning fires of hell go cold." "Poetic." A low snarl. Too easy. It was far too easy to bait him, rile him. And though I reminded myself of the wall, of the peace we needed, I said, "You saved my mate's life on several occasions. I will always be thankful for that." I knew the words found their mark. My mate. Low. It was a low blow. I had everything --everything I'd wished for, dreamed of, begged the stars to grant me. He had nothing. Had been given everything and squandered it. He didn't deserve my pity, my sympathy. No, Tamlin deserved what he'd brought upon himself, this husk of a life. He deserved every empty room, every snarl of thorns, every meal he had to hunt for himself. "Does she know you're here?" "Oh, she certainly does." One look at Feyre's face yesterday when I'd invited her along had given me her answer before she'd voiced it: she had no interest in ever seeing the male across from me again. "And," I went on, "she was as disturbed as I was to learn that your borders are not as enforced as we'd hoped." "With the wall gone, I'd need an army to watch them." "That can be arranged." A soft snarl rumbled from Tamlin, and a hint of claws gleamed at his knuckles. "I'm not letting your ilk onto my lands." "My ilk, as you call them, fought most of the war that you helped bring about. If you need patrols, I will supply the warriors." "To protect humans from us?" A sneer. My hands ached to wrap around his throat. Indeed, shadows curled at my fingertips, heralds of the talons lurking just beneath. This house--I hated this house. Had hated it from the moment I'd set foot in it that night, when Spring Court blood had flowed, payment for a debt that could never be repaid. Payment for two sets of wings, pinned in the study. Tamlin had burned them long ago, Feyre had told me. It made no difference. He'd been there that day. Had given his father and brothers the information on where my sister and mother would be waiting for me to meet them. And done nothing to help them as they were butchered. I still saw their heads in those baskets, their faces still etched with fear and pain. And saw them again as I beheld the High Lord of Spring, both of us crowned in the same blood-soaked night. "To protect humans from us, yes," I said, my voice going dangerously quiet. "To maintain the peace." "What peace?" The claws slid back under his skin as he crossed his arms, less muscled than I'd last seen them on the battlefields. "Nothing is different. The wall is gone, that's all." "We can make it different. Better. But only if we start off the right way." "I'm not allowing one Night Court brute onto my lands." His people despised him enough, it seemed. And at that word-- brute --I had enough. Dangerous territory. For me, at least. To let my own temper get the better of me. At least around him. I rose from the chair, Tamlin not bothering to stand. "You brought every bit of this upon yourself," I said, my voice still soft. I didn't need to yell to convey my rage. I never had. "You won," he spat, sitting forward. "You got your mate. Is that not enough?" "No." The word echoed through the library. "You nearly destroyed her. In every way possible." Tamlin bared his teeth. I bared mine back, temper be damned. Let some of my power rumble through the room, the house, the grounds. "She survived it, though. Survived you. And you still felt the need to humiliate her, belittle her. If you meant to win her back, old friend, that wasn't the wisest route." "Get out." I wasn't finished. Not even close. "You deserve everything that has befallen you. You deserve this pathetic, empty house, your ravaged lands. I don't care if you offered that kernel of life to save me, I don't care if you still love my mate. I don't care that you saved her from Hybern, or a thousand enemies before that." The words poured out, cold and steady. "I hope you live the rest of your miserable life alone here. It's a far more satisfying end than slaughtering you." Feyre had once arrived at the same decision. I'd agreed with her then, still did, but now I truly understood. Tamlin's green eyes went feral. I braced for it, readied for it --wanted it. For him to explode out of that chair and launch himself at me, for his claws to start slashing. My blood hammered in my veins, my power coiling inside me. We could wreck this house in our fight. Bring it down to rubble. And then I'd turn the stones and wood into nothing but black dust. But Tamlin only stared. And after a heartbeat, his eyes lowered to the desk. "Get out." I blinked, the only sign of my surprise. "Not in the mood for a brawl, Tamlin?" He didn't bother to look at me again. "Get out" was all he said. A broken male. Broken, from his own actions, his own choices. It was not my concern. He did not deserve my pity. But as I winnowed away, the dark wind ripping around me, a strange sort of hollowness took root in my stomach. Tamlin didn't have shields around the house. None to prevent anyone from winnowing in, to guard against enemies appearing in his bedroom and slitting his throat. It was almost as if he was waiting for someone to do it. I found Feyre walking home from presumably doing some shopping, a few bags dangling from her gloved hands. Her smile when I landed beside her, snow whipping around us, was like a fist to my heart. It faded immediately, however, when she read my face. Even in the middle of the busy city street, she put a hand to my cheek. "That bad?" I nodded, leaning into her touch. The most I could manage. She pressed a kiss to my mouth, her lips warm enough that I realized I'd gone cold. "Walk home with me," she said, looping her arm through mine and pressing close. I obeyed, taking the bags from her other hand. As the blocks passed and we crossed over the icy Sidra, then up the steep hills, I told her. Everything I'd said to Tamlin. "Having heard you rip into Cassian, I'd say you were fairly mild," she observed when I'd finished. I snorted. "Profanity wasn't necessary here." She contemplated my words. "Did you go because you were concerned about the wall, or just because you wanted to say those things to him?" "Both." I couldn't bring myself to lie to her about it. "And perhaps slaughter him." Alarm flared in her eyes. "Where is this coming from?" I didn't know. "I just..." Words failed me. Her arm tightened around mine, and I turned to study her face. Open, understanding. "The things you said ... they weren't wrong," she offered. No judgment, no anger. Something still a bit hollow inside me filled slightly. "I should have been the bigger male." "You're the bigger male most days. You're entitled to a slipup." She smiled broadly. Bright as the full moon, lovelier than any star. I still had not gotten her a Solstice gift. And birthday present. She angled her head at my frown, her braid slipping over a shoulder. I ran my hand along it, savoring the silken strands against my frozen fingers. "I'll meet you at home," I said, handing her the bags once more. It was her turn to frown. "Where are you going?" I kissed her cheek, breathing in her lilac-and-pear scent. "I have some errands that need tending to." And looking at her, walking beside her, did little to cool the rage that still roiled in me. Not when that beautiful smile made me want to winnow back to the Spring Court and punch my Illyrian blade through Tamlin's gut. Bigger male indeed. "Go paint my nude portrait," I told her, winking, and shot into the bitterly cold sky. The sound of her laughter danced with me all the way to the Palace of Thread and Jewels. I surveyed the spread my preferred jeweler had laid out on black velvet atop the glass counter. In the lights of her cozy shop bordering the Palace, they flickered with an inner fire, beckoning. Sapphires, emeralds, rubies ... Feyre had them all. Well, in moderate amounts. Save for those cuffs of solid diamond I'd given her for Starfall. She'd worn them only twice: That night I had danced with her until dawn, barely daring to hope that she might be starting to return a fraction of what I felt for her. And the night we'd returned to Velaris, after that final battle with Hybern. When she had worn only those cuffs. I shook my head, and said to the slim, ethereal faerie behind the counter, "Beautiful as they are, Neve, I don't think milady wants jewels for Solstice." A shrug that wasn't at all disappointed. I was a frequent enough customer that Neve knew she'd make a sale at some point. She slid the tray beneath the counter and pulled out another, her night-veiled hands moving smoothly. Not a wraith, but something similar, her tall, lean frame wrapped in permanent shadows, only her eyes--like glowing coals--visible. The rest tended to come in and out of view, as if the shadows parted to reveal a dark hand, a shoulder, a foot. Her people all master jewel smiths, dwelling in the deepest mountain mines in our court. Most of the heirlooms of our house had been Tartera-made, Feyre's cuffs and crowns included. Neve waved a shadowed hand over the tray she'd laid out. "I had selected these earlier, if it's not too presumptuous, to consider for Lady Amren." Indeed, these all sang Amren's name. Large stones, delicate settings. Mighty jewelry, for my mighty friend. Who had done so much for me, my mate--our people. The world. I surveyed the three pieces. Sighed. "I'll take all of them." Neve's eyes glowed like a living forge. <|title|>Chapter 12: Feyre <|startofchapter|>"What the hell is that?" Cassian was grinning the next evening as he waved a hand toward the pile of pine boughs dumped on the ornate red rug in the center of the foyer. "Solstice decorations. Straight from the market." Snow clung to his broad shoulders and dark hair, and his tan cheeks were flushed with cold. "You call that a decoration?" He smirked. "A heap of pine in the middle of the floor is Night Court tradition." I crossed my arms. "Funny." "I'm serious." I glared, and he laughed. "It's for the mantels, the banister, and whatever else, smartass. Want to help?" He shrugged off his heavy coat, revealing a black jacket and shirt beneath, and hung it in the hall closet. I remained where I was and tapped my foot. "What?" he said, brows rising. It was rare to see Cassian in anything but his Illyrian leathers, but the clothes, while not as fine as anything Rhys or Mor usually favored, suited him. "Dumping a bunch of trees at my feet is really how you say hello these days? A little time in that Illyrian camp and you forget all your manners." Cassian was on me in a second, hoisting me off the ground to twirl me until I was going to be sick. I beat at his chest, cursing at him. Cassian set me down at last. "What'd you get me for Solstice?" I smacked his arm. "A heaping pile of shut the hell up." He laughed again, and I winked at him. "Hot cocoa or wine?" Cassian curved a wing around me, turning us toward the cellar door. "How many good bottles does little Rhysie have left?" We drank two of them before Azriel arrived, took one look at our drunken attempts at decorating, and set about fixing it before anyone else could see the mess we'd made. Lounging on a couch before the birch fire in the living room, we grinned like devils as the shadowsinger straightened the wreaths and garlands we'd chucked over things, swept up pine needles we'd scattered over the carpets, and generally shook his head at everything. "Az, relax for a minute," Cassian drawled, waving a hand. "Have some wine. Cookies." "Take off your coat," I added, pointing the bottle toward the shadowsinger, who hadn't even bothered to do so before fixing our mess. Azriel straightened a sagging section of garland over the windowsill. "It's almost like you two tried to make it as ugly as possible." Cassian clutched at his heart. "We take offense to that." Azriel sighed at the ceiling. "Poor Az," I said, pouring myself another glass. "Wine will make you feel better." He glared at me, then the bottle, then Cassian ... and finally stormed across the room, took the bottle from my hand, and chugged the rest. Cassian grinned with delight. Mostly because Rhys drawled from the doorway, "Well, at least now I know who's drinking all my good wine. Want another one, Az?" Azriel nearly spewed the wine into the fire, but made himself swallow and turn, red-faced, to Rhys. "I would like to explain--" Rhys laughed, the rich sound bouncing off the carved oak moldings of the room. "Five centuries, and you think I don't know that if my wine's gone, Cassian's usually behind it?" Cassian raised his glass in a salute. Rhys surveyed the room and chuckled. "I can tell exactly which ones you two did, and which ones Azriel tried to fix before I got here." Azriel was indeed now mbbing his temple. Rhys lifted a brow at me. "I expected better from an artist." I stuck out my tongue at him. A heartbeat later, he said in my mind, Save that tongue for later. I have ideas for it. My toes curled in their thick, high socks. "It's cold as hell!" Mor called from the front hall, startling me from the warmth pooling in my core. "And who the hell let Cassian and Feyre decorate?" Azriel choked on what I could have sworn was a laugh, his normally shadowed face lighting up as Mor bustled in, pink with cold and puffing air into her hands. She, however, scowled. "You two couldn't wait until I got here to break into the good wine?" I grinned as Cassian said, "We were just getting started on Rhys's collection." Rhys scratched his head. "It is there for anyone to drink, you know. Help yourself to whatever you want." "Dangerous words, Rhysand," Amren warned, strutting through the door, nearly swallowed up by the enormous white fur coat she wore. Only her chin- length dark hair and solid silver eyes were visible above the collar. She looked-- "You look like an angry snowball," Cassian said. I clamped my lips together to keep the laugh in. Laughing at Amren wasn't a wise move. Even now, with her powers mostly gone and permanently in a High Fae body. The angry snowball narrowed her eyes at him. "Careful, boy. Wouldn't want to start a war you can't win." She unbuttoned the collar so we all heard her clearly as she purred, "Especially with Nesta Archeron coming for Solstice in two days." I felt the ripple that went through them--between Cassian, and Mor, and Azriel. Felt the pure temper that rumbled from Cassian, all half-drunk merriness suddenly gone. He said in a low voice, "Shut it, Amren." Mor was watching closely enough that it was hard not to stare. I glanced at Rhys instead, but a contemplative look had overtaken his face. Amren merely grinned, those red lips spreading wide enough to show most of her white teeth as she stalked toward the front hall closet and said over a shoulder, "I'm going to enjoy seeing her shred into you. That's if she shows up sober." And that was enough. Rhys seemed to arrive at the same idea, but before he could say something, I cut in, "Leave Nesta out of it, Amren." Amren gave me what might have been considered an apologetic glance. But she merely declared, shoving her enormous coat into the closet, "Varian's coming, so deal with it." Elain was in the kitchen, helping Nuala and Cerridwen prepare the evening meal. Even with Solstice two nights away, everyone had descended upon the town house. Except one. "Any word from Nesta?" I said to my sister by way of greeting. Elain straightened from the piping-hot loaves of bread she'd hauled from the oven, her hair half up, the apron over her rose-pink gown dusted with flour. She blinked, her large brown eyes clear. "No. I told her to join us tonight, and to let me know when she'd decided. I didn't hear back." She waved a dishcloth over the bread to cool it slightly, then lifted a loaf to tap the bottom. A hollow sound thumped back, answer enough for her. "Do you think it's worth fetching her?" Elain slung the dishcloth over her slim shoulder, rolling her sleeves up to the elbow. Her skin had gained color these months--at least, before the cold weather had set in. Her face had filled in, too. "Are you asking me that as her sister, or as a seer?" I kept my face calm, pleasant, and leaned against the worktable. Elain had not mentioned any further visions. And we had not asked her to use her gifts. Whether they still existed, with the Cauldron's destruction and then re- forming, I didn't know. Didn't want to ask. "You know Nesta best," I answered carefully. "I thought you'd like to weigh in." "If Nesta doesn't want to be here tonight, then it's more trouble than it's worth to bring her in." Elain's voice was colder than usual. I glanced at Nuala and Cerridwen, the latter giving me a shake of her head as if to say, Not a good day for her. Like the rest of us, Elain's recovery was ongoing. She'd wept for hours the day I'd taken her to a wildflower-covered hill on the outskirts of the city--to the marble headstone I'd had erected there in honor of our father. I'd turned his body to ashes after the King of Hybern had killed him, but he still deserved a resting place. For all he'd done in the end, he deserved the beautiful stone I'd had carved with his name. And Elain had deserved a place to visit with him, talk with him. She went at least once a month. Nesta had never been at all. Had ignored my invitation to come with us that first day. And every time afterward. I took up a spot beside Elain, grabbing a knife from the other side of the table to begin cutting the bread. Down the hall, the sounds of my family echoed toward us, Mor's bright laughter ringing out above Cassian's rumble. I waited until I had a stack of steaming slices before I said, "Nesta is still a part of this family." "Is she?" Elain sawed deep into the next loaf. "She certainly doesn't act like it." I hid my frown. "Did something happen when you saw her today?" Elain didn't answer. She just kept slicing the bread. So I continued as well. I didn't appreciate when other people pushed me to speak. I'd grant her that same courtesy, too. In silence, we worked, then set about filling the platters with the food Nuala and Cerridwen signaled was ready, their shadows veiling them more than usual. To grant us some sense of privacy. I threw them a look of gratitude, but they both shook their heads. No thanks necessary. They'd spent more time with Elain than even I had. They understood her moods, what she sometimes needed. It was only when Elain and I were hauling the first of the serving dishes down the hall toward the dining room that she spoke. "Nesta said she didn't want to come to Solstice." "That's fine." Even though something in my chest twisted a bit. "She said she didn't want to come to anything. Ever." I paused, scanning the pain and fear now shining in Elain's eyes. "Did she say why?" "No." Anger--there was anger in Elain's face, too. "She just said ... She said that we have our lives, and she has hers." To say that to me, fine. But to Elain ? I blew out a breath, my stomach gurgling at the platter of slow-roasted chicken I held between my hands, the scent of sage and lemon filling my nose. "I'll talk to her." "Don't," Elain said flatly, starting once more into a walk, veils of steam drifting past her shoulders from the roasted rosemary potatoes in her hands, as if they were Azriel's shadows. "She won't listen." Like hell she wouldn't. "And you?" I made myself say. "Are you--all right?" Elain looked over a shoulder at me as we entered the foyer, then turned left-- to the dining room. In the sitting room across the way, all conversation halted at the smell of food. "Why wouldn't I be all right?" she asked, a smile lighting up her face. I'd seen those smiles before. On my own damn face. But the others came barreling in from the sitting room, Cassian kissing Elain's cheek in greeting before he nearly lifted her out of the way to get to the dining table. Amren came next, giving my sister a nod, her ruby necklace sparkling in the faelights speckled throughout the garlands in the hall. Then Mor, with a smacking kiss for either cheek. Then Rhys, shaking his head at Cassian, who began helping himself to the platters Nuala and Cerridwen winnowed in. As Elain lived here, my mate gave her only a smile of greeting before taking up his seat at Cassian's right. Azriel emerged from the sitting room, a glass of wine in hand and wings tucked back to reveal his fine, yet simple black jacket and pants. I felt, more than saw, my sister go still as he approached. Her throat bobbed. "Are you just going to hold that chicken all night?" Cassian asked me from the table. Scowling, I stomped toward him, plunking the platter onto the wooden surface. "I spat in it," I said sweetly. "Makes it all the more delicious," Cassian crooned, smiling right back. Rhys snickered, drinking deeply from his wine. But I strode to my seat--nestled between Amren and Mor--in time to see Elain say to Azriel, "Hello." Az said nothing. No, he just moved toward her. Mor tensed beside me. But Azriel only took Elain's heavy dish of potatoes from her hands, his voice soft as night as he said, "Sit. Til take care of it." Elain's hands remained in midair, as if the ghost of the dish remained between them. With a blink, she lowered them, and noticed her apron. "I-- I'II be right back," she murmured, and hurried down the hall before I could explain that no one cared if she showed up to dinner covered in flour and that she should just sit. Azriel set the potatoes in the center of the table, Cassian diving right in. Or he tried to. One moment, his hand was spearing toward the serving spoon. The next, it was stopped, Azriel's scarred fingers wrapped around his wrist. "Wait," Azriel said, nothing but command in his voice. Mor gaped wide enough that I was certain the half-chewed green beans in her mouth were going to tumble onto her plate. Amren just smirked over the rim of her wineglass. Cassian gawked at him. "Wait for what ? Gravy?" Azriel didn't let go. "Wait until everyone is seated before eating." "Pig," Mor supplied. Cassian gave a pointed look to the plate of green beans, chicken, bread, and ham already half eaten on Mor's plate. But he relaxed his hand, leaning back in his chair. "I never knew you were a stickler for manners, Az." Azriel only released Cassian's hand, and stared at his wineglass. Elain swept in, apron gone and hair rebraided. "Please don't wait on my account," she said, taking the seat at the head of the table. Cassian glared at Azriel. Az pointedly ignored him. But Cassian waited until Elain had filled her plate before he took another scoop of anything. As did the others. I met Rhys's stare across the table. What was that about? Rhys sliced into his glazed ham in smooth, skilled strokes. It had nothing to do with Cassian. Oh? Rhys took a bite, gesturing with his knife for me to eat. Let's just say it hit a little close to home. At my beat of confusion, he added, There are some scars when it comes to how his mother was treated. Many scars. His mother, who had been a servant--near-slave--when he was born. And afterward. None of us bother to wait for everyone to sit, least of all Cassian. It can strike at odd times. I did my best not to look toward the shadowsinger. I see. Turning to Amren, I studied her plate. Small portions of everything. "Still getting used to it?" Amren grunted, rolling around her roasted, honeyed carrots. "Blood tastes better." Mor and Cassian choked. "And it didn't take so much time to consume," Amren groused, lifting the teensiest scrap of roast chicken to her red-painted lips. Small, slow meals for Amren. The first normal meal she'd eaten after returning--a bowl of lentil soup--had made her vomit for an hour. So it had been a gradual adjustment. She still couldn't dive into a meal the way the rest of us were prone to. Whether it was wholly physical or perhaps some sort of personal adjustment period, none of us knew. "And then there are the other unpleasant results of eating," Amren went on, slicing her carrots into tiny slivers. Azriel and Cassian swapped a glance, then both seemed to find their plates very interesting. Even as smiles tugged on their faces. Elain asked, "What sort of results?" "Don't answer that," Rhys said smoothly, pointing to Amren with his fork. Amren hissed at him, her dark hair swaying like a curtain of liquid night, "Do you know what an inconvenience it is to need to find a place to relieve myself everywhere I go ?" A fizzing noise came from Cassian's side of the table, but I clamped my lips together. Mor gripped my knee beneath the table, her body shaking with the effort of keeping her laugh reined in. Rhys drawled to Amren, "Shall we start building public toilets for you throughout Velaris, Amren?" "I mean it, Rhysand," Amren snapped. I didn't dare meet Mor's stare. Or Cassian's. One look and I'd completely dissolve. Amren waved a hand down at herself. "I should have selected a male form. At least you can whip it out and go wherever you like without having to worry about spilling on--" Cassian lost it. Then Mor. Then me. And even Az, chuckling faintly. "You really don't know how to pee?" Mor roared. "After all this time?" Amren seethed. "I've seen animals--" "Tell me you know how a toilet works," Cassian burst out, slapping a broad hand on the table. "Tell me you know that much." I clapped a hand over my mouth, as if it would push the laugh back in. Across the table, Rhys's eyes were brighter than stars, his mouth a quivering line as he tried and failed to remain serious. "I know how to sit on a toilet," Amren growled. Mor opened her mouth, laughter dancing on her face, but Elain asked, "Could you have done it? Decided to take a male form?" The question cut through the laughter, an arrow fired between us. Amren studied my sister, Elain's cheeks red from our unfiltered talk at the table. "Yes," she said simply. "Before, in my other form, I was neither. I simply was." "Then why did you pick this body?" Elain asked, the faelight of the chandelier catching in the ripples of her golden-brown braid. "I was more drawn to the female form," Amren answered simply. "I thought it was more symmetrical. It pleased me." Mor frowned down at her own form, ogling her considerable assets. "True." Cassian snickered. Elain asked, "And once you were in this body, you couldn't change?" Amren's eyes narrowed slightly. I straightened, glancing between them. Unusual, yes, for Elain to be so vocal, but she'd been improving. Most days, she was lucid--perhaps quiet and prone to melancholy, but aware. Elain, to my surprise, held Amren's gaze. Amren said after a moment, "Are you asking out of curiosity for my past, or your own future?" The question left me too stunned to even reprimand Amren. The others, too. Elain's brow furrowed before I could leap in. "What do you mean?" "There's no going back to being human, girl," Amren said, perhaps a tad gently. "Amren," I warned. Elain's face reddened further, her back straightening. But she didn't bolt. "I don't know what you're talking about." I'd never heard Elain's voice so cold. I glanced at the others. Rhys was frowning, Cassian and Mor were both grimacing, and Azriel ... It was pity on his beautiful face. Pity and sorrow as he watched my sister. Elain hadn't mentioned being Made, or the Cauldron, or Graysen in months. I'd assumed that perhaps she was becoming accustomed to being High Fae, that she'd perhaps begun to let go of that mortal life. "Amren, you have a spectacular gift for ruining dinner conversation," Rhys said, swirling his wine. "I wonder if you could make a career out of it." His Second glared at him. But Rhys held her stare, silent warning in his face. Thank you, I said down the bond. A warm caress echoed in answer. "Pick on someone your own size," Cassian said to Amren, shoveling roast chicken into his mouth. "I'd feel bad for the mice," Azriel muttered. Mor and Cassian howled, earning a blush from Azriel and a grateful smile from Elain--and no shortage of scowling from Amren. But something in me eased at that laughter, at the light that returned to Elain's eyes. A light I wouldn't see dimmed further. I need to go out after dinner, I said to Rhys as I dug into my meal again. Care for a flight across the city? Nesta didn't open her door. I knocked for perhaps a good two minutes, scowling at the dim wooden hallway of the ramshackle building that she'd chosen to live in, then sent a tether of magic through the apartment beyond. Rhys had erected wards around the entire thing, and with our magic, our souls' bond, there was no resistance to the thread of power I unspooled through the door and into the apartment itself. Nothing. No sign of life or--or worse beyond. She wasn't at home. I had a good idea of where she'd be. Winnowing into the freezing street, I pinwheeled my arms to keep upright as my boots slid on the ice coating the stones. Leaning against a lamppost, faelight gilding the talons atop his wings, Rhys chuckled. And didn't move an inch. "Asshole," I muttered. "Most males would help their mates if they're about to break their heads on the ice." He pushed off the lamppost and prowled toward me, every movement smooth and unhurried. Even now, I'd gladly spend hours just watching him. "I have a feeling that if I had stepped in, you would have bitten my head off for being an overbearing mother hen, as you called me." I grumbled an answer he chose not to hear. "Not at home, then?" I grumbled again. "Well, that leaves precisely ten other places where she could be." I grimaced. Rhys asked, "Do you want me to look?" Not physically, but use his power to find Nesta. I hadn't wanted him to do it earlier, since it felt like some sort of violation of privacy, but given how damned cold it was ... "Fine." Rhys wrapped his arms, then his wings around me, tucking me into his heat as he murmured onto my hair, "Hold on." Darkness and wind tumbled around us, and I buried my face in his chest, breathing in the scent of him. Then laughter and singing, music blaring, the tangy smell of stale ale, the bite of cold-- I groaned as I beheld where he'd winnowed us, where he'd detected my sister. "There are wine rooms in this city," Rhys said, cringing. "There are concert halls. Fine restaurants. Pleasure clubs. And yet your sister ..." And yet my sister managed to find the seediest, most miserable taverns in Velaris. There weren't many. But she patronized all of them. And this one--the Wolf's Den--was by far the worst. "Wait here," I said over the fiddles and drums spilling from the tavern as I pulled out of his embrace. Down the street, a few drunk revelers spotted us and fell silent. Felt Rhys's power, perhaps my own as well, and found somewhere else to be for a while. I had no doubt the same would happen in the tavern, and had no doubt Nesta would resent us for ruining her night. At least I could slip inside mostly unnoticed. If both of us went in there, I knew my sister would see it as an attack. So it would be me. Alone. Rhys kissed my brow. "If someone propositions you, tell them we'll both be free in an hour." "Och." I waved him off, banking my powers to a near-whisper within me. He blew me a kiss. I waved that away, too, and slipped through the tavern door. <|title|>Chapter 13: Feyre <|startofchapter|>My sister didn't have drinking companions. As far as I knew, she went out alone, and made them as the night progressed. And every now and then, one of them went home with her. I hadn't asked. Wasn't even sure when the first time had been. I also didn't dare ask Cassian if he knew. They had barely exchanged more than a few words since the war. And as I entered the light and rolling music of the Wolf's Den and immediately spotted my sister seated with three males at a round table in the shadowed back, I could almost see the specter of that day against Hybern looming behind her. Every ounce of weight that Elain had gained it seemed Nesta had lost. Her already proud, angular face had turned more so, her cheekbones sharp enough to slice. Her hair remained up in her usual braided coronet, she wore her preferred gray gown, and she was, as ever, immaculately clean despite the hovel she chose to occupy. Despite the reeking, hot tavern that had seen better years. Centuries. A queen without a throne. That was what I'd call the painting that swept into my mind. Nesta's eyes, the same blue-gray as my own, lifted the moment I shut the wooden door behind me. Nothing flickered across her face beyond vague disdain. The three High Fae males at her table were all fairly well dressed considering the place they patronized. Likely wealthy young bucks out for the night. I reined in my scowl as Rhys's voice filled my head. Mind your own business. Your sister is handily beating them at cards, by the way. Snoop. You love it. I pressed my lips together, sending a vulgar gesture down the bond as I approached my sister's table. Rhys's laughter rumbled against my shields in answer, like star-flecked thunder. Nesta simply went back to staring at the fan of cards she held, her posture the epitome of glorious boredom. But her companions peered up at me when I stopped at the edge of their stained and scarred wooden table. Half-consumed glasses of amber liquid sweated with moisture, kept chilled through some magic of the tavern's. The male across the table--a handsome, rakish-looking High Fae, with hair like spun gold--met my eyes. His hand of cards slumped to the table as he bowed his head. The others followed suit. Only my sister, still studying her cards, remained uninterested. "My lady," said a thin, dark-haired male, throwing a wary glance toward my sister. "How may we be of assistance?" Nesta didn't so much as look up as she adjusted one of her cards. Fine. I smiled sweetly at her companions. "I hate to interrupt your night out, gentlemen." Gentlemales, I supposed. A holdover from my human life--one that the third male noted with a hint of a raised, thick brow. "But I would like a word with my sister." The dismissal was clear enough. As one, they rose, cards abandoned, and swiped up their drinks. "We'll get a refill," the golden-haired one declared. I waited until they were at the bar, pointedly not gazing over their shoulders, before I slid into the rickety seat the dark-haired one had vacated. Slowly, Nesta's eyes lifted toward mine. I leaned back in the chair, wood groaning. "So which one was going home with you tonight?" Nesta snapped her cards together, setting the stack facedown on the table. "I hadn't decided." Icy, flat words. The perfect accompaniment to the expression on her face. I simply waited. Nesta waited, too. Still as an animal. Still as death. I'd once wondered if that was her power. Her curse, granted by the Cauldron. Nothing I'd seen of it, glimpsed in those moments against Hybern, had seemed like death. Just brute power. But the Bone Carver had whispered of it. And I'd seen it, shining cold and bright in her eyes. But not for months now. Not that I'd seen much of her. A minute passed. Then another. Utter silence, save for the merry music from the four-piece band on the other side of the room. I could wait. I'd wait here all damn night. Nesta settled back in her chair, inclined to do the same. My money's on your sister. Quiet. I'm getting cold out here. Illyrian baby. A dark chuckle, then the bond went silent again. "Is that mate of yours going to stand in the cold all night?" I blinked, wondering if she'd somehow sensed the thoughts between us. "Who says he's here?" Nesta snorted. "Where one goes, the other follows." I refrained from voicing all of the potential retorts that leaped onto my tongue. Instead, I asked, "Elain invited you to dinner tonight. Why didn't you come?" Nesta's smile was slow, sharp as a blade. "I wanted to hear the musicians play." I cast a pointed look to the band. More skilled than the usual tavern set, but not a real excuse. "She wanted you there." I wanted you there. Nesta shrugged. "She could have eaten with me here." "You know Elain wouldn't feel comfortable in a place like this." She arched a well-groomed brow. "A place like this? What sort of place is that?" Indeed, some people were turning our way. High Lady--I was High Lady. Insulting this place and the people in it wouldn't win me any supporters. "Elain is overwhelmed by crowds." "She didn't used to be that way." Nesta swirled her glass of amber liquid. "She loved balls and parties." The words hung unspoken. But you and your court dragged us into this world. Took that joy away from her. "If you bothered to come by the house, you'd see that she's readjusting. But balls and parties are one thing. Elain never patronized taverns before this." Nesta opened her mouth, no doubt to lead me down a path away from the reason I'd come here. So I cut in before she could. "That's beside the point." Steel-cold eyes held mine. "Can you get to it, then? I'd like to return to my game." I debated scattering the cards to the ale-slick ground. "Solstice is the day after tomorrow." Nothing. Not a blink. I interlaced my fingers and set them on the table between us. "What will it take to get you to come?" "For Elain's sake or yours?" "Both." Another snort. Nesta surveyed the room, everyone carefully not watching us now. I knew without asking that Rhys had slid a sound barrier around us. Finally, my sister looked back at me. "So you're bribing me, then?" I didn't flinch. "I'm seeing if you're willing to be reasoned with. If there's a way to make it worth your while." Nesta planted the tip of her pointer finger atop her stack of cards and fanned them out across the table. "It's not even our holiday. We don't have holidays." "Perhaps you should try it. You might enjoy yourself." "As I told Elain: you have your lives, and I have mine." Again, I cast a pointed glance to the tavern. "Why? Why this insistence on distancing yourself?" She settled back in her seat, crossing her arms. "Why do I have to be a part of your merry little band?" "You're my sister." Again, that empty, cold look. I waited. "I'm not going to your party," she said. If Elain hadn't been able to convince her, I certainly wouldn't succeed. I didn't know why I hadn't realized it before. Before wasting my time. But I tried --one last time. For Elain's sake. "Father would want you to--" "Don't you finish that sentence. " Despite the sound shield around us, there was nothing to block the view of my sister baring her teeth. The view of her fingers curling into invisible claws. Nesta's nose crinkled with undiluted rage as she snarled, "Leave" A scene. This was about to become a scene in the worst way. So I rose, hiding my trembling hands by balling them into tight fists at my sides. "Please come," was all I said before turning back toward the door, the walk between her table and the exit feeling so much longer. All the staring faces I'd have to pass looming. "My rent," Nesta said when I'd walked two steps. I paused. "What about your rent?" She swigged from her glass. "It's due next week. In case you forgot." She was completely serious. I said flatly, "Come to Solstice and I'll make sure it's delivered." Nesta opened her mouth, but I turned again, staring down every gaping face that peered up at me as I passed. I felt my sister's gaze piercing the space between my shoulder blades the entire walk to that front door. And the entire flight home. <|title|>Chapter 14: Rhysand <|startofchapter|>Even with workers seldom halting their repairs, the rebuilding was still years from being finished. Especially along the Sidra, where Hybern had hit hardest. Little more than rubble remained of the once-great estates and homes along the southeastern bend of the river, their gardens overgrown and private boathouses half sunken in the gentle flow of the turquoise waters. I'd grown up in these houses, attending the parties and feasts that lasted long into the night, spending bright summer days lazing on the sloping lawns, cheering the summer boat races on the Sidra. Their facades had been as familiar as any friend's face. They'd been built long before I was born. I'd expected them to last long after I was gone. "You haven't heard from the families about when they'll be returning, have you?" Mor's question floated to me above the crunch of pale stone beneath our feet as we ambled along the snow-dusted grounds of one such estate. She'd found me after lunch--a rare, solitary meal these days. With Feyre and Elain out shopping in the city, when my cousin had appeared in the foyer of the town house, I hadn't hesitated to invite her for a walk. It had been a long while since Mor and I had walked together. I wasn't stupid enough to believe that though the war had ended, all wounds had been healed. Especially between Mor and me. And I wasn't stupid enough to delude myself into thinking that I hadn't put off this walk for a while now--and so had she. I'd seen her eyes go distant the other night at the Hewn City. Her silence after her initial snarled warning at her father had told me enough about where her mind had drifted. Another casualty of this war: working with Keir and Eris had dimmed something in my cousin. Oh, she hid it well. Save for when she was face-to-face with the two males who had-- I didn't let myself finish the thought, summon the memory. Even five centuries later, the rage threatened to swallow me until I'd left the Hewn City and Autumn Court in ruins. But those were her deaths to claim. They always had been. I had never asked why she'd waited so long. We'd quietly meandered through the city for half an hour now, going mostly unnoticed. A small blessing of Solstice: everyone was too busy with their own preparations to mark who strolled through the packed streets. How we'd wound up here, I had no idea. But here we were, nothing but the fallen and cracked blocks of stone, winter-dry weeds, and gray sky for company. "The families," I said at last, "are at their other estates." I knew them all, wealthy merchants and nobles who had defected from the Hewn City long before the two halves of my realm had been officially severed. "With no plans to return anytime soon." Perhaps forever. I'd heard from one of them, a matriarch of a merchant empire, that they were likely going to sell rather than face the ordeal of building from scratch. Mor nodded absently, the chill wind whipping strands of her hair over her face as she paused in the middle of what had once been a formal garden sloping from the house to the icy river itself. "Keir is coming here soon, isn't he." So rarely would she ever refer to him as her father. I didn't blame her. That male hadn't been her father for centuries. Long before that unforgivable day. "He is." I'd managed to keep Keir at bay since the war had ended--had prepared for him to inevitably decide that no matter the work I dumped in his lap, no matter how I might interrupt his little visits with Eris, he would visit this city. Perhaps I had brought this upon myself, by enforcing the Hewn City's borders for so long. Perhaps their horrible traditions and narrow minds had only grown worse while being contained. It was their territory, yes, but I'd given them nothing else. No wonder they were so curious about Velaris. Though Keir's desire to visit only stemmed from one need: to torment his daughter. "When." "Likely in the spring, if I'm guessing correctly." Mor's throat bobbed, her face going cold in a way I so rarely witnessed. In a way I hated, if only because I was to blame for it. I'd told myself it had been worth it. Keir's Darkbringers had been crucial in our victory. And he'd suffered losses because of it. The male was a prick in every sense of the word, but he'd come through on his end. I had little choice but to hold up my own. Mor scanned me from head to toe. I'd opted for a black jacket crafted from heavier wool, and forgone wings entirely. Just because Cassian and Azriel had to suffer through having them be freezing all the time didn't mean I had to. I remained still, letting Mor arrive at her own conclusions. "I trust you," she said at last. I bowed my head. "Thank you." She waved a hand, launching into a walk again down the pale gravel paths of the garden. "But I still wish there had been another way." "I do, too." She twisted the ends of her thick red scarf before tucking them into her brown overcoat. "If your father comes here," I offered, "I can make sure you're away." No matter that she had been the one to push for the minor confrontation with the Steward and Eris the other night. She scowled. "He'll see it for what it is: hiding. I won't give him that satisfaction." I knew better than to ask if she thought her mother would come along. We didn't discuss Mor's mother. Ever. "Whatever you decide, I'll support you." "I know that." She paused between two low-lying boxwoods and watched the icy river beyond. "And you know that Az and Cassian are going to be monitoring them like hawks for the entire visit. They've been planning the security protocols for months now." "They have?" I nodded gravely. Mor blew out a breath. "I wish we were still able to threaten to unleash Amren on the entire Hewn City." I snorted, gazing across the river to the quarter of the city just barely visible over the rise of a hill. "Half of me wonders if Amren wishes the same." "I assume you're getting her a very good present." "Neve was practically skipping with glee when I left the shop." A small laugh. "What did you get Feyre?" I slid my hands into my pockets. "This and that." "So, nothing." I dragged a hand through my hair. "Nothing. Any ideas?" "She's your mate. Shouldn't this sort of thing be instinctual?" "She's impossible to shop for." Mor gave me a wry look. "Pathetic." I nudged her with an elbow. "What did you get her?" "You'll have to wait until Solstice evening to see." I rolled my eyes. In the centuries I'd known her, Mor's present-buying abilities had never improved. I had a drawer full of downright hideous cuff links that I'd never worn, each gaudier than the next. I was lucky, though: Cassian had a trunk crammed with silk shirts of varying colors of the rainbow. Some even had ruffles on them. I could only imagine the horrors in store for my mate. Thin sheets of ice lazily drifted down the Sidra. I didn't dare ask Mor about Azriel--what she'd gotten him, what she planned to do with him. I had little interest in being chucked right into that icy river. "I'm going to need you, Mor," I said quietly. The amusement in Mor's eyes sharpened to alertness. A predator. There was a reason she'd held her own in battle, and could hold her own against any Illyrian. My brothers and I had overseen much of the training ourselves, but she'd spent years traveling to other lands, other territories, to learn what they knew. Which was precisely why I said, "Not with Keir and the Hewn City, not with holding the peace long enough for things to stabilize." She crossed her arms, waiting. "Az can infiltrate most courts, most lands. But I might need you to win those lands over." Because the pieces that were now strewn on the table ... "Treaty negotiations are dragging on too long." "They're not happening at all." Truth. With the rebuilding, too many tentative allies had claimed they were busy and would reconvene in the spring to discuss the new terms. "You wouldn't need to be gone for months. Just visits here and there. Casual." "Casual, but make the kingdoms and territories realize that if they push too far or enter into human lands, we'll obliterate them?" I huffed a laugh. "Something like that. Az has lists of the kingdoms most likely to cross the line." "If I'm flitting about the continent, who will deal with the Court of Nightmares?" "I will." Her brown eyes narrowed. "You're not doing this because you think I can't handle Keir, are you?" Careful, careful territory. "No," I said, and wasn't lying. "I think you can. I know you can. But your talents are better wielded elsewhere for now. Keir wants to build ties to the Autumn Court--let him. Whatever he and Eris are scheming up, they know we're watching, and know how stupid it would be for either of them to push us. One word to Beron, and Eris's head will roll." Tempting. So damn tempting to tell the High Lord of Autumn that his eldest son coveted his throne--and was willing to take it by force. But I'd made a bargain with Eris, too. Perhaps a fool's bargain, but only time would tell in that regard. Mor fiddled with her scarf. "I'm not afraid of them." "I know you're not." "I just--being near them, together ..." She shoved her hands into her pockets. "It's probably what it feels like for you to be around Tamlin." "If it's any consolation, cousin, I behaved rather poorly the other day." "Is he dead?" "No." "Then I'd say you controlled yourself admirably." I laughed. "Bloodthirsty of you, Mor." She shrugged, again watching the river. "He deserves it." He did indeed. She glanced sidelong at me. "When would I need to leave?" "Not for another few weeks, maybe a month." She nodded, and fell quiet. I debated asking her if she wished to know where Azriel and I thought she might go first, but her silence said enough. She'd go anywhere. Too long. She'd been cooped up within the borders of this court for too long. The war barely counted. And it wouldn't happen in a month, or perhaps a few years, but I could see it: the invisible noose tightening around her neck with every day spent here. "Take a few days to think about it," I offered. She whipped her head toward me, golden hair catching in the light. "You said you needed me. It didn't seem like there was much room for choice." "You always have a choice. If you don't want to go, then it's fine." "And who would do it instead? Amren?" A knowing look. I laughed again. "Certainly not Amren. Not if we want peace." I added, "Just --do me a favor and take some time to think about it before you say yes. Consider it an offer, not an order." She fell silent once more. Together, we watched the ice floes drift down the Sidra, toward the distant, wild sea. "Does he win if I go?" A quiet, tentative question. "You have to decide that for yourself." Mor turned toward the ruined house and grounds behind us. Staring not at them, I realized, but eastward. Toward the continent and the lands within. As if wondering what might be waiting there. <|title|>Chapter 15: Feyre <|startofchapter|>I had yet to find or even come up with a vague idea for what to give Rhysand for Solstice. Mercifully, Elain quietly approached me at breakfast, Cassian still passed out on the couch in the sitting room across the foyer and no sign of Azriel where he'd fallen asleep on the couch across from him, both too lazy--and perhaps a little drunk, after all the wine we'd had last night--to make the trek up to the tiny spare bedroom they'd be sharing during Solstice. Mor had taken my old bedroom, not minding the clutter I'd added, and Amren had gone back to her own apartment when we'd finally drifted to sleep in the early hours of the morning. Both my mate and Mor were still sleeping, and I'd been content to let them continue doing so. They'd earned that rest. We all had. But Elain, it seemed, was as sleepless as me, especially after my stinging talk with Nesta that even the wine I'd returned home to drink couldn't dull, and she wanted to see if I was game for a walk about the city, providing me with the perfect excuse to head out for more shopping. Decadent--it felt decadent, and selfish, to shop, even if it was for people I loved. There were so many in this city and beyond it who had next to nothing, and every additional, unnecessary moment I spent peering into window displays and running my fingers over various goods grated against my nerves. "I know it's not easy for you," Elain observed as we drifted through a weaver's shop, admiring the fine tapestries, rugs, and blankets she'd crafted into images of various Night Court scenes: Velaris under the glow of Starfall; the rocky, untamed shores of the northern isles; the stelae of the temples of Cesere; the insignia of this court, the three stars crowning a mountain peak. I turned from a wall covering depicting that very image. "What's not easy?" We kept our voices to a near-murmur in the quiet, warm space, more out of respect to the other browsers admiring the work. Elain's brown eyes roved over the Night Court insignia. "Buying things without a dire need to do so." In the back of the vaulted, wood-paneled shop, a loom thrummed and clicked as the dark-haired artist who made the pieces continued her work, pausing only to answer questions from customers. So different. This space was so different from the cottage of horrors that had belonged to the Weaver in the Wood. To Stryga. "We have everything we need," I admitted to Elain. "Buying presents feels excessive." "It's their tradition, though," Elain countered, her face still flushed with the cold. "One that they fought and died to protect in the war. Perhaps that's the better way to think of it, rather than feeling guilty. To remember that this day means something to them. All of them, regardless of who has more, who has less, and in celebrating the traditions, even through the presents, we honor those who fought for its very existence, for the peace this city now has." For a moment, I just stared at my sister, the wisdom she'd spoken. Not a whisper of those oracular abilities. Just clear eyes and an open expression. "You're right," I said, taking in the insignia rising before me. The tapestry had been woven from fabric so black it seemed to devour the light, so black it almost strained the eye. The insignia, however, had been rendered in silver thread--no, not silver. A sort of iridescent thread that shifted with sparks of color. Like woven starlight. "You're thinking of getting it?" Elain asked. She hadn't bought anything in the hour we'd already been out, but she'd stopped often enough to contemplate. A gift for Nesta, she'd said. She was looking for a gift for our sister, regardless of whether Nesta deigned to join us tomorrow. But Elain had seemed more than content to simply watch the humming city, to take in the sparkling strands of faelights strung between buildings and over the squares, to sample any tidbit of food offered by an eager vendor, to listen to minstrels busking by the now-silent fountains. As if my sister, too, had merely been looking for an excuse to get out of the house today. "I don't know who I'd get it for," I admitted, extending a finger toward the black fabric of the tapestry. The moment my nail touched the velvet-soft surface, it seemed to vanish. As if the material truly did gobble up all color, all light. "But ..." I looked toward the weaver at the other end of the space, another piece half-formed on her loom. Leaving my thought unfinished, I strode for her. The weaver was High Fae, full-figured and pale-skinned. A sheet of black hair had been braided back from her face, the length of the plait dropping over the shoulder of her thick, red sweater. Practical brown pants and shearling-lined boots completed her attire. Simple, comfortable clothes. What I might wear while painting. Or doing anything. What I was wearing beneath my heavy blue overcoat, to be honest. The weaver halted her work, deft fingers stilling, and lifted her head. "How can I help you?" Despite her pretty smile, her gray eyes were ... quiet. There was no way of explaining it. Quiet, and a little distant. The smile tried to offset it, but failed to mask the heaviness lingering within. "I wanted to know about the tapestry with the insignia," I said. "The black fabric--what is it?" "I get asked that at least once an hour," the weaver said, her smile remaining yet no humor lighting her eyes. I cringed a bit. "Sorry to add to that." Elain drifted to my side, a fuzzy pink blanket in one hand, a purple blanket in the other. The weaver waved off my apology. "It's an unusual fabric. Questions are expected." She smoothed a hand over the wooden frame of her loom. "I call it Void. It absorbs the light. Creates a complete lack of color." "You made it?" Elain asked, now staring over her shoulder toward the tapestry. A solemn nod. "A newer experiment of mine. To see how darkness might be made, woven. To see if I could take it farther, deeper than any weaver has before." Having been in a void myself, the fabric she'd woven came unnervingly close. "Why?" Her gray eyes shifted toward me again. "My husband didn't return from the war." The frank, open words clanged through me. It was an effort to hold her gaze as she continued, "I began trying to create Void the day after I learned he'd fallen." Rhys hadn't asked anyone in this city to join his armies, though. Had deliberately made it a choice. At the confusion on my face, the weaver added softly, "He thought it was right. To help fight. He left with several others who felt the same, and joined up with a Summer Court legion they found on their way south. He died in the battle for Adriata." "I'm sorry," I said softly. Elain echoed the words, her voice gentle. The weaver only stared toward the tapestry. "I thought we'd have a thousand more years together." She began to coax the loom back into movement. "In the three hundred years we were wed, we never had the chance to have children." Her fingers moved beautifully, unfaltering despite her words. "I don't even have a piece of him in that way. He's gone, and I am not. Void was born of that feeling." I didn't know what to say as her words settled in. As she continued working. It could have been me. It could have been Rhys. That extraordinary fabric, created and woven in grief that I had briefly touched and never wished to know again, contained a loss I could not imagine recovering from. "I keep hoping that every time I tell someone who asks about Void, it will get easier," the weaver said. If people asked about it as frequently as she'd claimed ... I couldn't have endured it. "Why not take it down?" Elain asked, sympathy written all over her face. "Because I do not want to keep it." The shuttle swept across the loom, flying with a life of its own. Despite her poise, her calm, I could almost feel her agony radiating into the room. A few touches of my daemati gifts and I might ease that grief, make the pain less. I'd never done so for anyone, but... But I could not. Would not. It would be a violation, even if I made it with good intentions. And her loss, her unending sorrow--she had created something from it. Something extraordinary. I couldn't take that away from her. Even if she asked me to. "The silver thread," Elain asked. "What is that called?" The weaver paused the loom again, the colorful strings vibrating. She held my sister's gaze. No attempt at a smile this time. "I call it Hope." My throat became unbearably tight, my eyes stinging enough that I had to turn away, to walk back toward that extraordinary tapestry. The weaver explained to my sister, "I made it after I mastered Void." I stared and stared at the black fabric that was like peering into a pit of hell. And then stared at the iridescent, living silver thread that cut through it, bright despite the darkness that devoured all other light and color. It could have been me. And Rhys. Had very nearly gone that way. Yet he had lived, and the weaver's husband had not. We had lived, and their story had ended. She did not have a piece of him left. At least, not in the way she wished. I was lucky--so tremendously lucky to even be complaining about shopping for my mate. That moment when he had died had been the worst of my life, would likely remain so, but we had survived it. These months, the what-if had haunted me. All of the what-ifs that we'd so narrowly escaped. And this holiday tomorrow, this chance to celebrate being together, living ... The impossible depth of blackness before me, the unlikely defiance of Hope shining through it, whispered the truth before I knew it. Before I knew what I wanted to give Rhys. The weaver's husband had not come home. But mine had. "Feyre?" Elain was again at my side. I hadn't heard her steps. Hadn't heard any sound for moments. The gallery had emptied out, I realized. But I didn't care, not as I again approached the weaver, who had stopped once more. At the mention of my name. The weaver's eyes were slightly wide as she bowed her head. "My lady." I ignored the words. "How." I gestured to the loom, the half-finished piece taking form on its frame, the art on the walls. "How do you keep creating, despite what you lost?" Whether she noted the crack in my voice, she didn't let on. The weaver only said, her sad, sorrowful gaze meeting mine, "I have to." The simple words hit me like a blow. The weaver went on, "I have to create, or it was all for nothing. I have to create, or I will crumple up with despair and never leave my bed. I have to create because I have no other way of voicing this" Her hand rested on her heart, and my eyes burned. "It is hard," the weaver said, her stare never leaving mine, "and it hurts, but if I were to stop, if I were to let this loom or the spindle go silent..." She broke my gaze at last to look to her tapestry. "Then there would be no Hope shining in the Void." My mouth trembled, and the weaver reached over to squeeze my hand, her callused fingers warm against mine. I had no words to offer her, nothing to convey what surged in my chest. Nothing other than, "I would like to buy that tapestry." The tapestry was a gift for no one but myself, and would be delivered to the town house later that afternoon. Elain and I browsed various stores for another hour before I left my sister to do her own shopping at the Palace of Thread and Jewels. I winnowed right into the abandoned studio in the Rainbow. I needed to paint. Needed to get out what I'd seen, felt in the weaver's gallery. I wound up staying for three hours. Some paintings were quick, swift renderings. Some I began plotting out with pencil and paper, mulling over the canvas needed, the paint I'd like to use. I painted through the grief that lingered at the weaver's story, painted for her loss. I painted all that rose within me, letting the past bleed onto the canvas, a blessed relief with each stroke of my brush. It was little surprise I was caught. I barely had time to leap off my stool before the front door opened and Ressina entered, a mop and bucket in her green hands. I certainly didn't have enough time to hide all the paintings and supplies. Ressina, to her credit, only smiled as she stopped short. "I suspected you'd be in here. I saw the lights the other night and thought it might be you." My heart pounded through my body, my face as warm as a forge, but I managed to offer a close-lipped smile. "Sorry." The faerie gracefully crossed the room, even with the cleaning supplies in hand. "No need to apologize. I was just headed in to do some cleaning up." She dumped the mop and bucket against one of the empty white walls with a faint thud. "Why?" I laid my paintbrush atop the palette I'd placed on a stool beside mine. Ressina set her hands on her narrow hips and surveyed the place. By some mercy or lack of interest, she didn't look too long at my paintings. "Polina's family hasn't discussed whether they're selling, but I figured she, at least, wouldn't want the place to be a mess." I bit my lip, nodding awkwardly as I lingered by the mess I'd added. "Sorry I ... I didn't come by your studio the other night." Ressina shrugged. "Again, no need to apologize." So rarely did anyone outside the Inner Circle speak to me with such casualness. Even the weaver had become more formal after I'd offered to buy her tapestry. "I'm just glad someone's using this place. That you are using it," Ressina added. "I think Polina would have liked you." Silence fell when I didn't answer. When I began scooping up supplies. "I'll get out of your way." I moved to set down a still-drying painting against the wall. A portrait I'd been thinking about for some time now. I sent it to that pocket between realms, along with all the others I'd been working on. I bent to pick up my pack of supplies. "You could leave those." I paused, a hand looped around the leather strap. "It's not my space." Ressina leaned against the wall beside her mop and bucket. "Perhaps you could talk to Polina's family about that. They're motivated sellers." I straightened, taking the supply pack with me. "Perhaps," I hedged, sending the rest of the supplies and paintings tumbling into that pocket realm, not caring if they crashed into each other as I headed for the door. "They live out on a farm in Dunmere, by the sea. In case you're ever interested." Not likely. "Thanks." I could practically hear her smile as I reached the front door. "Happy Solstice." "You, too," I threw over my shoulder before I vanished onto the street. And slammed right into the hard, warm chest of my mate. I rebounded off Rhys with a curse, scowling at his laugh as he gripped my arms to steady me against the icy street. "Going somewhere?" I frowned at him, but linked my arm through his and launched into a brisk walk. "What are you doing here?" "Why are you running out of an abandoned gallery as if you've stolen something?" "I was not running ."I pinched his arm, earning another deep, husky laugh. "Walking suspiciously quickly, then." I didn't answer until we'd reached the avenue that sloped down to the river. Thin crusts of ice drifted along the turquoise waters. Beneath them, I could feel the current still flowing past--not as strongly as I did in warmer months, though. As if the Sidra had fallen into a twilight slumber for the winter. "That's where I've been painting," I said at last as we halted at the railed walkway beside the river. A damp, cold wind brushed past, ruffling my hair. Rhys tucked a strand of it behind my ear. "I went back today--and was interrupted by an artist, Ressina. But the studio belonged to a faerie who didn't survive the attack this spring. Ressina was cleaning up the space on her behalf. Polina's behalf, in case Polina's family wants to sell it." "We can buy you a studio space if you need somewhere to paint by yourself," he offered, the thin sunlight gilding his hair. No sign of his wings. "No--no, it's not being alone so much as ... the right space to do it. The right feel to it." I shook my head. "I don't know. The painting helps. Helps me, I mean." I blew out a breath and surveyed him, the face dearer to me than anything in the world, the weaver's words echoing through me. She had lost her husband. I had not. And yet she still wove, still created. I cupped Rhys's cheek, and he leaned into the touch as I quietly asked, "Do you think it's stupid to wonder if painting might help others, too? Not my painting, I mean. But teaching others to paint. Letting them paint. People who might struggle the same way I do." His eyes softened. "I don't think that's stupid at ah." I traced my thumb over his cheekbone, savoring every inch of contact. "It makes me feel better--perhaps it would do the same for others." He remained quiet, offering me that companionship that demanded nothing, asked nothing as I kept stroking his face. We had been mated for less than a year. If things had not gone well during that final battle, how many regrets would have consumed me? I knew--knew which ones would have hit the hardest, struck the deepest. Knew which ones were in my power to change. I lowered my hand from his face at last. "Do you think anyone would come? If such a space, such a thing, were available?" Rhys considered, scanning my eyes before kissing my temple, his mouth warm against my chilled face. "You'll have to see, I suppose." I found Amren in her loft an hour later. Rhys had another meeting to attend with Cassian and their Illyrian commanders out at Devlon's war-camp, and had walked me to the door of her building before winnowing. My nose crinkled as I entered Amren's toasty apartment. "It smells ... interesting in here." Amren, seated at the long worktable in the center of the space, gave me a slashing grin before gesturing to the four-poster bed. Rumpled sheets and askew pillows said enough about what scents I was detecting. "You could open a window," I said, waving to the wall of them at the other end of the apartment. "It's cold out," was all she said, going back to-- "A jigsaw puzzle?" Amren fitted a tiny piece into the section she'd been working on. "Am I supposed to be doing something else during my Solstice holiday?" I didn't dare answer that as I shrugged off my overcoat and scarf. Amren kept the fire in the hearth near-sweltering. Either for herself, or her Summer Court companion, no sign of whom could I detect. "Where's Varian?" "Out buying more presents for me." "More?" A smaller smile this time, her red mouth quirking to the side as she fitted another piece into her puzzle. "He decided the ones he brought from the Summer Court were not enough." I didn't want to get into that comment, either. I took a seat across from her at the long, dark wood table, examining the half- finished puzzle of what seemed to be some sort of autumnal pastoral. "A new hobby of yours?" "Without that odious Book to decipher, I've found I miss such things." Another piece snapped into place. "This is my fifth this week." "We're only three days into the week." "They don't make them hard enough for me." "How many pieces is this one?" "Five thousand." "Show-off." Amren tutted to herself, then straightened in her chair, rubbing her back and wincing. "Good for the mind, but bad for the posture." "Good thing you have Varian to exercise with." Amren laughed, the sound like a crow's caw. "Good thing indeed." Those silver eyes, still uncanny, still limned with some trace of power, scanned me. "You didn't come here to keep me company, I suppose." I leaned back in the rickety old chair. None at the table matched. Indeed, each seemed from a different decade. Century. "No, I didn't." The High Lord's Second waved a hand tipped in long red nails and stooped over her puzzle again. "Proceed." I took a steadying breath. "It's about Nesta." "I suspected as much." "Have you spoken to her?" "She comes here every few days." "Really?" Amren tried and failed to fit a piece into her puzzle, her eyes darting over the color-sorted pieces around her. "Is it so hard to believe?" "She doesn't come to the town house. Or the House of Wind." "No one likes going to the House of Wind." I reached for a piece and Amren clicked her tongue in warning. I set my hand back on my lap. "I was hoping you might have some insight into what she's going through." Amren didn't reply for a while, scanning the pieces laid out instead. I was about to repeat myself when she said, "I like your sister." One of the few. Amren lifted her eyes to me, as if I'd said the words aloud. "I like her because so few do. I like her because she is not easy to be around, or to understand." "But?" "But nothing," Amren said, returning to the puzzle. "Because I like her, I am not inclined to gossip about her current state." "It's not gossip. I'm concerned." We all were. "She is starting down a path that--" "I will not betray her confidence." "She's talked to you?" Too many emotions cascaded through me at that. Relief that Nesta had talked to anyone, confusion that it had been Amren, and perhaps even some jealousy that my sister had not turned to me--or Elain. "No," Amren said. "But I know she would not like me to be musing over her path with anyone. With you." "But--" "Give her time. Give her space. Give her the opportunity to sort through this on her own." "It's been months." "She's an immortal. Months are inconsequential." I clenched my jaw. "She refuses to come home for Solstice. Elain will be heartbroken if she doesn't--" "Elain, or you?" Those silver eyes pinned me to the spot. "Both," I said through my teeth. Again, Amren sifted through her pieces. "Elain has her own problems to focus on." "Such as?" Amren just gave me a Look. I ignored it. "If Nesta deigns to visit you," I said, the ancient chair groaning as I pushed it back and rose, grabbing my coat and scarf from the bench by the door, "tell her that it would mean a great deal if she came on Solstice." Amren didn't bother to look up from her puzzle. "I will make no promises, girl." It was the best I could hope for. <|title|>Chapter 16: Rhysand <|startofchapter|>That afternoon, Cassian dumped his leather bag on the narrow bed against the wall of the fourth bedroom in the town house, the contents rattling. "You brought weapons to Solstice?" I asked, leaning against the door frame. Azriel, setting his own bag on the bed opposite Cassian's, threw our brother a vague look of alarm. After passing out on the sitting room couches last night, and a likely uncomfortable sleep, they'd finally bothered to settle into the bedroom designated for them. Cassian shrugged, plopping onto the bed, which was better suited for a child than an Illyrian warrior. "Some might be gifts." "And the rest?" Cassian toed off his boots and leaned against the headboard, folding his arms behind his head as his wings draped to the floor. "The females bring their jewelry. I bring my weapons." "I know a few females in this house who might take offense to that." Cassian offered me a wicked grin in response. The same grin he'd given Devlon and the commanders at our meeting an hour ago. All was ready for the storm; all patrols accounted for. A standard meeting, and one I didn't need to attend, but it was always good to remind them of my presence. Especially before they all gathered for Solstice. Azriel strode to the lone window at the end of the room and peered into the garden below. "I've never stayed in this room." His midnight voice filled the space. "That's because you and I have been shoved to the bottom of the ladder, brother," Cassian answered, his wings draping over the bed and to the wooden floor. "Mor gets the good bedroom, Elain is living in the other, and so we get this one." He didn't mention that the final, empty bedroom--Nesta's old room-- would remain open. Azriel, to his credit, didn't, either. "Better than the attic," I offered. "Poor Lucien," Cassian said, smiling. "If Lucien shows up," I corrected. No word about whether he would be joining us. Or remaining in that mausoleum Tamlin called a home. "My money's on yes," Cassian said. "Want to make a wager?" "No," Azriel said, not turning from the window. Cassian sat up, the portrait of outrage. "No?" Azriel tucked in his wings. "Would you want people betting on you?" "You assholes bet on me all the time. I remember the last one you did--you and Mor, making wagers about whether my wings would heal." I snorted. True. Azriel remained at the window. "Will Nesta stay here if she comes?" Cassian suddenly found the Siphon atop his left hand to be in need of polishing. I decided to spare him and said to Azriel, "Our meeting with the commanders went as well as could be expected. Devlon actually had a schedule drawn up for the girls' training, whenever this oncoming storm blows out. I don't think it was for show." "I'd still be surprised if they remember once the storm clears," Azriel said, turning from the garden window at last. Cassian grunted in agreement. "Anything new about the grumbling in the camps?" I kept my face neutral. Az and I had agreed to wait until after the holiday to divulge to Cassian the full extent of what we knew, who we suspected or knew was behind it. We'd told him the basics, though. Enough to assuage any sort of guilt. But I knew Cassian--as well as myself. Perhaps more so. He wouldn't be able to leave it alone if he knew now. And after all he'd been putting up with these months, and long before it, my brother deserved a break. At least for a few days. Of course that break had already included the meeting with Devlon and a gmeling training session atop the House of Wind this morning. Out of all of us, the concept of relaxing was the most foreign to Cassian. Azriel leaned against the carved wood footboard at the end of his bed. "Little to add to what you already know." Smooth, easy liar. Far better than me. "But they sensed that it's growing. The best time to assess is after Solstice, when they've all returned home. See who spreads the discord then. If it's grown while they were all celebrating together or snowed in with this storm." The perfect way to then reveal the full extent of what we knew. If the Illyrians revolted ... I didn't want to think that far down the road. What it would cost me. What it would cost Cassian, to fight the people he still so desperately wanted to be a part of. To kill them. It'd be far different from what we'd done to the Illyrians who'd gladly served Amarantha, and done such terrible things in her name. Far different. I shut out the thought. Later. After Solstice. We'd deal with it then. Cassian, mercifully, seemed inclined to do the same. Not that I blamed him, given the hour of bullshit posturing he'd endured before we'd winnowed here. Even now, centuries later, the camp-lords and commanders still challenged him. Spat on him. Cassian toed his own footboard, his legs not even fully stretched out. "Who used this bed anyway? It's Amren-sized." I snorted. "Careful how you whine. Feyre calls us Illyrian babies often enough." Azriel chuckled. "Her flying has improved enough that I think she's entitled to do so." Pride rippled through me. Perhaps she wasn't a natural, but she made up for it with sheer grit and focus. I'd lost count of the hours we spent in the air--the precious time we'd managed to steal for ourselves. I said to Cassian, "I can see about finding you two longer beds." With Solstice Eve here, it would take a minor miracle. I'd have to turn Velaris upside down. He waved a hand. "No need. Better than the couch." "You being too drunk to climb the stairs last night aside," I said wryly, earning a vulgar gesture in response, "space in this house does indeed seem to be an issue. You could stay up at the House if you'd prefer. I can winnow you in." "The House is boring." Cassian yawned for emphasis. "Az sneaks off into shadows and I'm left all alone." Azriel gave me a look that said, Illyrian baby indeed. I hid my smile and said to Cassian, "Perhaps you should get a place of your own, then." "I have one in Illyria." "I meant here." Cassian lifted a brow. "I don't need a house here. I need a room." He again toed the footboard, rocking the wood panel. "This one would be fine, if it didn't have a doll's bed." I chuckled again, but held in my retort. My suggestion that he might want a place of his own. Soon. Not that anything was happening on that front. Not anytime soon. Nesta had made it clear enough she had no interest in Cassian--not even in being in the same room as him. I knew why. I'd seen it happen, had felt that way plenty. "Perhaps that will be your Solstice present, Cassian," I replied instead. "A new bed here." "Better than Mor's presents," Az muttered. Cassian laughed, the sound booming off the walls. But I peered in the direction of the Sidra and lifted a brow. She looked radiant. Solstice Eve had fully settled upon Velaris, quieting the thrum that had pulsed through the city for the past few weeks, as if everyone paused to listen to the falling snow. A gentle fall, no doubt, compared with the wild storm unleashing itself upon the Illyrian Mountains. We'd gathered in the sitting room, the fire crackling, wine opened and flowing. Though neither Lucien nor Nesta had shown their faces, the mood was far from somber. Indeed, as Feyre emerged from the kitchen hallway, I took a moment to simply drink her in from where I sat in an armchair near the fire. She went right to Mor--perhaps because Mor was holding the wine, the bottle already outreached. I admired the view from behind as Feyre's glass was filled. It was an effort to leash every raging instinct at that particular view. At the curves and hollows of my mate, the color of her--so vibrant, even in this room of so many personalities. Her midnight-blue velvet gown hugged her perfectly, leaving little to the imagination before it pooled to the floor. She'd left her hair down, curling slightly at the ends--hair I knew I later wanted to plunge my hands into, scattering the silver combs pinning up the sides. And then I'd peel off that dress. Slowly. "You'll make me vomit," Amren hissed, kicking me with her silver silk shoe from where she sat in the armchair adjacent to mine. "Rein in that scent of yours, boy." I cut her an incredulous look. "Apologies." I threw a glance to Varian, standing to the side of her armchair, and silently offered him my condolences. Varian, clad in Summer Court blue and gold, only grinned and inclined his head toward me. Strange--so strange to see the Prince of Adriata here. In my town house. Smiling. Drinking my liquor. Until-- "Do you even celebrate Solstice in the Summer Court?" Until Cassian decided to open his mouth. Varian turned his head toward where Cassian and Azriel lounged on the sofa, his silver hair sparkling in the firelight. "In the summer, obviously. As there are two Solstices." Azriel hid his smile by taking a sip from his wine. Cassian slung an arm across the back of the sofa. "Are there really?" Mother above. It was going to be this sort of night, then. "Don't bother answering him," Amren said to Varian, sipping from her own wine. "Cassian is precisely as stupid as he looks. And sounds," she added with a slashing glance. Cassian lifted his glass in salute before drinking. "I suppose your Summer Solstice is the same in theory as ours," I said to Varian, though I knew the answer. I'd seen many of them--long ago. "Families gather, food is eaten, presents shared." Varian gave me what I could have sworn was a grateful nod. "Indeed." Feyre appeared beside my seat, her scent settling into me. I tugged her down to perch on the rolled arm of my chair. She did so with a familiarity that warmed something deep in me, not even bothering to look my way before her arm slid around my shoulders. Just resting there--just because she could. Mate. My mate. "So Tarquin doesn't celebrate Winter Solstice at all?" she asked Varian. A shake of the head. "Perhaps we should have invited him," Feyre mused. "There's still time," I offered. The Cauldron knew we needed alliances more than ever. "The call is yours, Prince." Varian peered down at Amren, who seemed to be entirely focused on her goblet of wine. "I'll think about it." I nodded. Tarquin was his High Lord. Should he come here, Varian's focus would be elsewhere. Away from where he wished that focus to be--for the few days he had with Amren. Mor plopped onto the sofa between Cassian and Azriel, her golden curls bouncing. "I like it to be just us anyway," she declared. "And you, Varian," she amended. Varian offered her a smile that said he appreciated the effort. The clock on the mantel chimed eight. As if it had summoned her, Elain slid into the room. Mor was instantly on her feet, offering --insisting on wine. Typical. Elain politely refused, taking up a spot in one of the wooden chairs set in the bay of windows. Also typical. But Feyre was staring at the clock, her brow furrowed. Nesta isn't coming. You invited her for tomorrow. I sent a soothing caress down the bond, as if it could wipe away the disappointment rippling from her. Feyre's hand tightened on my shoulder. I lifted my glass, the room quieting. "To family old and new. Let the Solstice festivities begin." We all drank to that. <|title|>Chapter 17: Feyre <|startofchapter|>The glare of sunlight on snow filtering through our heavy velvet curtains awoke me on Solstice morning. I scowled at the sliver of brightness and turned my head away from the window. But my cheek collided with something crinkly and firm. Definitely not my pillow. Peeling my tongue from the roof of my mouth, rubbing at the headache that had formed by my left brow thanks to the hours of drinking, laughing, and more drinking that we'd done until the early hours of the morning, I lifted myself enough to see what had been set beside my face. A present. Wrapped in black crepe paper and tied with silver thread. And beside it, smiling down at me, was Rhys. He'd propped his head on a fist, his wings draped across the bed behind him. "Happy birthday, Feyre darling." I groaned. "How are you smiling after all that wine?" "I didn't have a whole bottle to myself, that's how." He traced a finger down the groove of my spine. I rose onto my elbows, surveying the present he'd laid out. It was rectangular and almost flat--only an inch or two thick. "I was hoping you'd forget." Rhys smirked. "Of course you were." Yawning, I dragged myself into a kneeling position, stretching my arms high above my head before I pulled the gift to me. "I thought we were opening presents tonight with the others." "It's your birthday," he drawled. "The rules don't apply to you." I rolled my eyes at that, even as I smiled a bit. Easing away the wrapping, I pulled out a stunning notebook bound in black, supple leather, so soft it was almost like velvet. On the front, stamped in simple silver letters, were my initials. Opening the floppy front cover, it revealed page after page of beautiful, thick paper. All blank. "A sketchbook," he said. "Just for you." "It's beautiful." It was. Simple, yet exquisitely made. I would have picked it for myself, had such a luxury not seemed excessive. I leaned down to kiss him, a brush of our mouths. From the corner of my eye, I saw another item appear on my pillow. I pulled back to see a second present waiting, the large box wrapped in amethyst paper. "More?" Rhys waved a lazy hand, pure Illyrian arrogance. "Did you think a sketchbook would suffice for my High Lady?" My face heating, I opened the second present. A sky-blue scarf of softest wool lay folded inside. "So you can stop stealing Mor's," he said, winking. I grinned, wrapping the scarf around myself. Every inch of skin it touched felt like a decadence. "Thank you," I said, stroking the fine material. "The color is beautiful." "Mmmm." Another wave of his hand, and a third present appeared. "This is getting excessive." Rhys only arched a brow, and I chuckled as I opened the third gift. "A new satchel for my painting supplies," I breathed, running my hands over the fine leather as I admired all the various pockets and straps. A set of pencils and charcoals already lay within. The front had also been monogrammed with my initials--along with a tiny Night Court insignia. "Thank you," I said again. Rhysand's smile deepened. "I had a feeling jewels wouldn't be high on your list of desired gifts." It was true. Beautiful as they were, I had little interest in them. And had plenty already. "This is exactly what I would have asked for." "Had you not been hoping that your own mate would forget your birthday." I snorted. "Had I not been hoping for that." I kissed him again, and when I made to pull away, he slid a hand behind my head and kept me there. He kissed me deeply, lazily--as if he'd be content to do nothing but that all day. I might have considered it. But I managed to extract myself, and crossed my legs as I settled back on the bed and reached for my new sketchbook and satchel of supplies. "I want to draw you," I said. "As my birthday present to me" His smile was positively feline. I added, flipping open my sketchbook and turning to the first page, "You said once that nude would be best." Rhys's eyes glowed, and a whisper of his power through the room had the curtains parting, flooding the space with midmorning sunshine. Showing every glorious naked inch of him sprawled across the bed, illuminating the faint reds and golds of his wings. "Do your worst, Cursebreaker." My very blood sparking, I pulled out a piece of charcoal and began. It was nearly eleven by the time we emerged from our room. I'd filled pages and pages of my sketchbook with him--drawings of his wings, his eyes, his Illyrian tattoos. And enough of his naked, beautiful body that I knew I'd never share this sketchbook with anyone but him. Rhys had indeed hummed his approval when he'd leafed through my work, smirking at the accuracy of my drawings regarding certain areas of his body. The town house was still silent as we descended the stairs, my mate opting for Illyrian leathers--for whatever strange reason. If Solstice morning included one of Cassian's grueling training sessions, I'd gladly stay behind and start eating the feast I could already smell cooking in the kitchen down the hall. Entering the dining room to find breakfast waiting, but none of our companions present, Rhys helped me into my usual seat midway down the table, then slid into the chair beside me. "I'm assuming Mor's still asleep upstairs." I plopped a chocolate pastry onto my plate, then another onto his. Rhys sliced into the leek-and-ham quiche and set a chunk on my plate. "She drank even more than you, so I'm guessing we won't see her until sundown." I snorted, and held out my cup to receive the tea he now offered, steam curling from the pot's spout. But two massive figures filled the archway of the dining room, and Rhys paused. Azriel and Cassian, having crept up on cat-soft feet, were also wearing their Illyrian leathers. And from their shit-eating grins, I knew this would not end well. They moved before Rhys could, and only a flare of his power kept the teapot from falling onto the table before they hauled him out of his seat. And aimed right for the front door. I only bit into my pastry. "Please bring him back in one piece." "We'll take good care of him," Cassian promised, wicked humor in his eyes. Even Azriel was still grinning as he said, "If he can keep up." I lifted a brow, and just as they vanished out the front door, still dragging Rhys along, my mate said to me, "Tradition." As if that was an explanation. And then they were gone, off to the Mother knew where. But at least neither of the Illyrians had remembered my birthday--thank the Cauldron. So with Mor asleep and Elain likely in the kitchen helping to prepare that delicious food whose aroma now filled the house, I indulged in a rare, quiet meal. Helped myself to the pastry I'd put on Rhys's plate, along with his portion of the quiche. And another after that. Tradition indeed. With little to do beyond resting until the festivities began the hour before sundown, I settled in at the desk in our bedroom to do some paperwork. Very festive, Rhys purred down the bond. I could practically see his smirk. And where, exactly, are you ? Don't worry about it. I scowled at the eye on my palm, though I knew Rhys no longer used it. That makes it sound like I should be worried. A dark laugh. Cassian says you can pummel him when we get home. Which will be when? Atoo-long pause. Before dinner? I chuckled. I really don't want to know, do I? You really don ' t. Still smiling, I let the thread between us drop, and sighed at the papers staring up at me. Bills and letters and budgets ... I lifted a brow at the last, hauling a leather-bound tome toward me. A list of household expenses--just for Rhys and me. A drop of water compared with the wealth contained across his various assets. Our assets. Pulling out a piece of paper, I began counting the expenses so far, working through a tangle of mathematics. The money was there--if I wanted to use it. To buy that studio. There was money in the "miscellaneous purchases" funds to do it. Yes, I could buy that studio in a heartbeat with the fortune now in my name. But using that money so lavishly, even for a studio that wouldn't be just for me I shut the ledger, sliding my calculations into the pages, and rose. Paperwork could wait. Decisions like that could wait. Solstice, Rhys had told me, was for family. And since he was currently spending it with his brothers, I supposed I should find at least one of my sisters. Elain met me halfway to the kitchen, bearing a tray of jam tarts toward the table in the dining room. Where an assortment of baked goods had already begun to take form, tiered cakes and iced cookies. Sugar-frosted buns and caramel- drizzled fruit pies. "Those look pretty," I told her by way of greeting, nodding toward the heart-shaped cookies on her tray. All of it looked pretty. Elain smiled, her braid swishing with each step toward the growing mound of food. "They taste as good as they look." She set down the tray and wiped her flour-coated hands on the apron she wore over her dusty-pink gown. Even in the middle of winter, she was a bloom of color and sunshine. She handed me one of the tarts, sugar sparkling. I bit in without hesitation and let out a hum of pleasure. Elain beamed. I surveyed the food she was assembling and asked between bites, "How long have you been working on this?" A one-shouldered shrug. "Since dawn." She added, "Nuala and Cerridwen were up hours earlier." I'd seen the Solstice bonus Rhys had given each of them. It was more than most families made in a year. They deserved every damned copper mark. Especially for what they'd done for my sister. The companionship, the purpose, the small sense of normalcy in that kitchen. She'd bought them those cozy, fuzzy blankets from the weaver, one raspberry pink and the other lilac. Elain surveyed me in turn as I finished off the tart and reached for another. "Have you had any word from her?" I knew who she meant. Just as I opened my mouth to tell her no, a knock thudded on the front door. Elain moved fast enough that I could barely keep up, flinging open the fogged glass antechamber door in the foyer, then unlatching the heavy oak front door. But it wasn't Nesta who stood on the front step, cheeks flushed with cold. No, as Elain took a step back, hand falling away from the doorknob, she revealed Lucien smiling tightly at us both. "Happy Solstice," was all he said. <|title|>Chapter 18: Feyre <|startofchapter|>"You look well," I said to Lucien when we'd settled in the armchairs before the fire, Elain perched silently on the couch nearby. Lucien warmed his hands in the glow of the birch fire, the light casting his face in reds and golds--golds that matched his mechanical eye. "You as well." A sidelong glance toward Elain, swift and fleeting. "Both of you." Elain said nothing, but at least she bowed her head in thanks. In the dining room, Nuala and Cerridwen continued to add food to the table, their presence now little more than twin shadows as they walked through the walls. "You brought presents," I said uselessly, nodding toward the small stack he'd set by the window. "It's Solstice tradition here, isn't it?" I stifled my wince. The last Solstice I'd experienced had been at the Spring Court. With Ianthe. And Tamlin. "You're welcome to stay for the night," I said, since Elain certainly wasn't going to. Lucien lowered his hands into his lap and leaned back in the armchair. "Thank you, but I have other plans." I prayed he didn't catch the slightly relieved glimmer on Elain's face. "Where are you going?" I asked instead, hoping to keep his focus on me. Knowing it was an impossible task. "I ..." Lucien fumbled for the words. Not out of some lie or excuse, I realized a moment later. Realized when he said, "I've been at the Spring Court every now and then. But if I'm not here in Velaris, I've mostly been staying with Jurian. And Vassa." I straightened. "Really? Where?" "There's an old manor house in the southeast, in the humans' territory. Jurian and Vassa were ... gifted it." From the lines that bracketed his mouth, I knew who had likely arranged for the manor to fall into their hands. Gray sen--or his father. I didn't dare glance at Elain. "Rhys mentioned that they were still in Prythian. I didn't realize it was such a permanent base." A short nod. "For now. While things are sorted out." Like the world without a wall. Like the four human queens who still squatted across the continent. But now wasn't the time to talk of it. "How are they-- Jurian and Vassa?" I'd learned enough from Rhys about how Tamlin was faring. I didn't care to hear any more of it. "Jurian ..." Lucien blew out a breath, scanning the carved wood ceiling above. "Thank the Cauldron for him. I never thought I'd say that, but it's true." He ran a hand through his silken red hair. "He's keeping everything running. I think he'd have been crowned king by now if it wasn't for Vassa." A twitch of the lips, a spark in that russet eye. "She's doing well enough. Savoring every second of her temporary freedom." I had not forgotten her plea to me that night after the last battle with Hybern. To break the curse that kept her human by night, firebird by day. A once-proud queen--still proud, yes, but desperate to reclaim her freedom. Her human body. Her kingdom. "She and Jurian are getting along?" I hadn't seen them interact, could only imagine what the two of them would be like in the same room together. Both trying to lead the humans who occupied the sliver of land at the southernmost end of Prythian. Left ungoverned for so long. Too long. No king or queen remained in these lands. No memory of their name, their lineage. At least amongst humans. The Fae might know. Rhys might know. But all that lingered of whoever had once ruled the southern tip of Prythian was a motley assortment of lords and ladies. Nothing else. No dukes or earls or any of the titles I'd once heard my sisters mention while discussing the humans on the continent. There were no such titles in the Fae lands. Not in Prythian. No, there were just High Lords and lords. And now a High Lady. I wondered if the humans had taken to using only lord as a title thanks to the High Fae who lurked above the wall. Lurked--but no longer. Lucien considered my question. "Vassa and Jurian are two sides of the same coin. Mercifully, their vision for the future of the human territories is mostly aligned. But the methods on how to attain that ..." A frown to Elain, then a wince at me. "This isn't very Solstice-like talk." Definitely not, but I didn't mind. And as for Elain ... My sister rose to her feet. "I should get refreshments." Lucien rose as well. "No need to trouble yourself. I'm--" But she was already out of the room. When her footsteps had faded from earshot, Lucien slumped into his armchair and blew out a long breath. "How is she?" "Better. She makes no mention of her abilities. If they remain." "Good. But is she still ..." A muscle flickered in his jaw. "Does she still mourn him?" The words were little more than a growl. I chewed on my lip, weighing how much of the truth to reveal. In the end, I opted for all of it. "She was deeply in love with him, Lucien." His russet eye flashed with simmering rage. An uncontrollable instinct--for a mate to eliminate any threat. But he remained sitting. Even as his fingers dug into the arms of his chair. I continued, "It has only been a few months. Graysen made it clear that the engagement is ended, but it might take her a while longer to move past it." Again that rage. Not from jealousy, or any threat, but--"He's as fine a prick as any I've ever encountered." Lucien had encountered him, I realized. Somehow, in living with Jurian and Vassa at that manor, he'd run into Elain's former betrothed. And managed to leave the human lord breathing. "I would agree with you on that," I admitted. "But remember that they were engaged. Give her time to accept it." "To accept a life shackled to me?" My nostrils flared. "That's not what I meant." "She wants nothing to do with me." "Would you, if your positions were reversed?" He didn't answer. I tried, "After Solstice wraps up, why don't you come stay for a week or two? Not in your apartment, I mean. Here, at the town house." "And do what?" "Spend time with her." "I don't think she'll tolerate two minutes alone with me, so forget about two weeks." His jaw worked as he studied the fire. Fire. His mother's gift. Not his father's. Yes, it was Beron's gift. The gift of the father who the world believed had sired him. But not the gift of Helion. His true father. I still hadn't mentioned it. To anyone other than Rhys. Now wasn't the time for that, either. "I'd hoped," I ventured to say, "that when you rented the apartment, it meant you would come work here. With us. Be our human emissary." "Am I not doing that now?" He arched a brow. "Am I not sending twice- weekly reports to your spymaster?" "You could come live here, is all I'm saying," I pushed. "Truly live here, stay in Velaris for longer than a few days at a time. We could get you nicer quarters Lucien got to his feet. "I don't need your charity." I rose as well. "But Jurian and Vassa's is fine?" "You'd be surprised to see how the three of us get along." Friends, I realized. They had somehow become his friends. "So you'd rather stay with them?" "I'm not staying with them. The manor is ours." "Interesting." His golden eye whirred. "What is." Not feeling very festive at all, I said sharply, "That you now feel more comfortable with humans than with the High Fae. If you ask me--" "I'm not." "It seems like you've decided to fall in with two people without homes of their own as well." Lucien stared at me, long and hard. When he spoke, his voice was rough. "Happy Solstice to you, Feyre." He turned toward the foyer, but I grabbed his arm to halt him. The corded muscle of his forearm shifted beneath the fine silk of his sapphire jacket, but he made no move to shake me off. "I didn't mean that," I said. "You have a home here. If you want it." Lucien studied the sitting room, the foyer beyond and dining room on its other side. "The Band of Exiles." "The what?" "That's what we call ourselves. The Band of Exiles." "You have a name for yourselves." I fought my incredulous tone. He nodded. "Jurian isn't an exile," I said. Vassa, yes. Lucien, two times over now. "Jurian's kingdom is nothing but dust and half-forgotten memory, his people long scattered and absorbed into other territories. He can call himself whatever he likes." Yes, after the battle with Hybern, after Jurian's aid, I supposed he could. But I asked, "And what, exactly, does this Band of Exiles plan to do? Host events? Organize party-planning committees?" Lucien's metal eye clicked faintly and narrowed. "You can be as much of an asshole as that mate of yours, you know that?" True. I sighed again. "I'm sorry. I just--" "I don't have anywhere else to go." Before I could object, he said, "You mined any chance I have of going back to Spring. Not to Tamlin, but to the court beyond his house. Everyone either still believes the lies you spun or they believe me complicit in your deceit. And as for here ..." He shook off my grip and headed for the door. "I can't stand to be in the same room as her for more than two minutes. I can't stand to be in this court and have your mate pay for the very clothes on my back." I studied the jacket he wore. I'd seen it before. Back in-- "Tamlin sent it to our manor yesterday," Lucien hissed. "My clothes. My belongings. All of it. He had it sent from the Spring Court and dumped on the doorstep." Bastard. Still a bastard, despite what he'd done for Rhys and me during that last battle. But the blame for that behavior was not on Tamlin's shoulders alone. I'd created that rift. Ripped it apart with my own two hands. I didn't quite feel guilty enough to warrant apologizing for it. Not yet. Possibly not ever. "Why?" It was the only question I could think to ask. "Perhaps it had something to do with your mate's visit the other day." My spine stiffened. "Rhys didn't involve you in that." "He might as well have. Whatever he said or did, Tamlin decided he wishes to remain in solitude." His russet eye darkened. "Your mate should have known better than to kick a downed male." "I can't say I'm particularly sorry that he did." "You will need Tamlin as an ally before the dust has settled. Tread carefully." I didn't want to think about it, consider it, today. Any day. "My business with him is done." "Yours might be, but Rhys's isn't. And you'd do well to remind your mate of that fact." A pulse down the bond, as if in answer. Everything all right? I let Rhys see and hear all that had been said, the conversation conveyed in the blink of an eye. I'm sorry to have caused him trouble, Rhys said. Do you need me to come home? I'll handle it. Let me know if you need anything, Rhys said, and the bond went silent. "Checking in?" Lucien asked quietly. "I don't know what you're talking about," I said, my face the portrait of boredom. He gave me a knowing look, continuing to the door and grabbing his heavy overcoat and scarf from the hooks mounted on the wood paneling beside it. "The bigger box is for you. The smaller one is for her." It took me a heartbeat to realize he meant the presents. I glanced over my shoulder to the careful silver wrapping, the blue bows atop both boxes. When I looked back, Lucien was gone. I found my sister in the kitchen, watching the kettle scream. "He's not staying for tea," I said. No sign of Nuala or Cerridwen. Elain simply removed the kettle from the heat. I knew I wasn't truly angry with her, not angry with anyone but myself, but I said, "You couldn't say a single word to him? A pleasant greeting?" Elain only stared at the steaming kettle as she set it on the stone counter. "He brought you a present." Those doe-brown eyes turned toward me. Sharper than I'd ever seen them. "And that entitles him to my time, my affections?" "No." I blinked. "But he is a good male." Despite our harsh words. Despite this Band of Exiles bullshit. "He cares for you." "He doesn't know me." "You don't give him the chance to even try to do so." Her mouth tightened, the only sign of anger in her graceful countenance. "I don't want a mate. I don't want a male." She wanted a human man. Solstice. Today was Solstice, and everyone was supposed to be cheerful and happy. Certainly not fighting left and right. "I know you don't." I loosed a long breath. "But..." But I had no idea how to finish that sentence. Just because Lucien was her mate didn't mean he had a claim on her time. Her affection. She was her own person, capable of making her own choices. Assessing her own needs. "He is a good male," I repeated. "And it ... it just ..." I fought for the words. "I don't like to see either of you unhappy." Elain stared at the worktable, baked goods both finished and incomplete arrayed on the surface, the kettle now cooling on the counter. "I know you don't." There was nothing else to be said. So I touched her shoulder and strode out. Elain didn't say a word. I found Mor sitting on the bottom steps of the stairs, wearing a pair of peach- colored loose pants and a heavy white sweater. A combination of Amren's usual style and my own. Gold earrings flashing, Mor offered a grim smile. "Drink?" A decanter and pair of glasses appeared in her hands. "Mother above, yes." She waited until I'd sat beside her on the oak steps and downed a mouthful of amber liquid, the stuff burning its way along my throat and warming my belly, before she asked, "Do you want my advice?" No. Yes. I nodded. Mor drank deeply from her glass. "Stay out of it. She's not ready, and neither is he, no matter how many presents he brings." I lifted a brow. "Snoop." Mor leaned back against the steps, utterly unrepentant. "Let him live with his Band of Exiles. Let him deal with Tamlin in his own way. Let him figure out where he wants to be. Who he wants to be. The same goes with her." She was right. "I know you still blame yourself for your sisters being Made." Mor nudged my knee with her own. "And because of that, you want to fix everything for them now that they're here." "I always wanted to do that," I said glumly. Mor smiled crookedly. "That's why we love you. Why they love you." Nesta, I wasn't so sure about. Mor continued, "Just be patient. It'll sort itself out. It always does." Another kernel of truth. I refilled my glass, set the crystal decanter on the step behind us, and drank again. "I want them to be happy. All of them." "They will be." She said the simple words with such unflagging conviction that I believed her. I arched a brow. "And you--are you happy?" Mor knew what I meant. But she just smiled, swirling the liquor in her glass. "It's Solstice. I'm with my family. I'm drinking. I'm very happy." A skilled evasion. But one I was content to partake in. I clinked my heavy glass against hers. "Speaking of our family ... Where the hell are they?" Mor's brown eyes lit up. "Oh--oh, he didn't tell you, did he?" My smile faltered. "Tell me what." "What the three of them do every Solstice morning." "I'm beginning to be nervous." Mor set down her glass, and gripped my arm. "Come with me." Before I could object, she'd winnowed us out. Blinding light hit me. And cold. Brisk, brutal cold. Far too cold for the sweaters and pants we wore. Snow. And sun. And wind. And mountains. And--a cabin. The cabin. Mor pointed to the endless field atop the mountain. Covered in snow, just as I'd last seen it. But rather than a flat, uninterrupted expanse ... "Are those snow forts?" A nod. Something white shot across the field, white and hard and glistening, and then Cassian's yowl echoed off the mountains around us. Followed by, "You bastardl" Rhys's answering laugh was bright as the sun on snow. I surveyed the three walls of snow--the barricades --that bordered the field as Mor erected an invisible shield against the bitter wind. It did little to drive away the cold, though. "They're having a snowball fight." Another nod. "Three Illyrian warriors," I said. "The greatest Illyrian warriors. Are having a snowball fight." Mor's eyes practically glowed with wicked delight. "Since they were children." "They're over five hundred years old." "Do you want me to tell you the running tally of victories?" I gaped at her. Then at the field beyond. At the snowballs that were indeed flying with brutal, swift precision as dark heads popped over the walls they'd built. "No magic," Mor recited, "no wings, no breaks." "They've been out here since noon." It was nearly three. My teeth began chattering. "I've always stayed in to drink," Mor supplied, as if that were an answer. "How do they even decide who wins?" "Whoever doesn't get frostbite?" I gaped at her again over my clacking teeth. "This is ridiculous." "There's more alcohol in the cabin." Indeed, none of the males seemed to even notice us. Not as Azriel popped up, launched two snowballs sky-high, and vanished behind his wall of snow again. A moment later, Rhys's vicious curse barked toward us. "Asshole." Laughter laced every syllable. Mor looped her arm through mine again. "I don't think your mate is going to be the victor this year, my friend." I leaned into her warmth, and we waded through the shin-high snow toward the cabin, the chimney already puffing against the clear blue sky. Illyrian babies indeed. <|title|>Chapter 19: Feyre <|startofchapter|>Azriel won. His one-hundred-ninety-ninth victory, apparently. The three of them had entered the cabin an hour later, dripping snow, skin splotched with red, grinning from ear to ear. Mor and I, snuggled together beneath a blanket on the couch, only rolled our eyes at them. Rhys just dropped a kiss atop my head, declared the three of them were going to take a steam in the cedar-lined shed attached to the house, and then they were gone. I blinked at Mor as they vanished, letting the image settle. "Another tradition," she told me, the bottle of amber-colored alcohol mostly empty. And my head now spinning with it. "An Illyrian custom, actually--the heated sheds. The birchin. A bunch of naked warriors, sitting together in the steam, sweating." I blinked again. Mor's lips twitched. "About the only good custom the Illyrians ever came up with, to be honest." I snorted. "So the three of them are just in there. Naked. Sweating." Mother above. Interested in taking a look? The dark purr echoed into my mind. Lech. Go back to your sweating. There's room for one more in here. I thought mates were territorial. I could feel him smile as if he were grinning against my neck. I'm always eager to learn what sparks your interest, Feyre darling. I surveyed the cabin around me, the surfaces I'd painted nearly a year ago. I was promised a wall, Rhys. A pause. Along pause. I've taken you against a wall before. These walls. Another long, long pause. It's bad form to be at attention while in the birchin. My lips curved as I sent him an image. A memory. Of me on the kitchen table just a few feet away. Of him kneeling before me. My legs wrapped around his head. Cruel, wicked thing. I heard a door slamming somewhere in the house, followed by a distinctly male yelp. Then banging--as if someone was trying to get back inside. Mor's eyes sparkled. "You got him kicked out, didn't you?" My answering smile set her roaring. The sun was sinking toward the distant sea beyond Velaris when Rhys stood at the black marble mantel of the town house sitting room and lifted his glass of wine. All of us--in our finery for once--lifted ours in suit. I'd opted to wear my Starfall gown, forgoing my crown but wearing the diamond cuffs at my wrists. It sparkled and gleamed in my line of vision as I stood at Rhys's side, taking in every plane of his beautiful face as he said, "To the blessed darkness from which we are born, and to which we return." Our glasses rose, and we drank. I glanced to him--my mate, in his finest black jacket, the silver embroidery gleaming in the faelight. That's it? He arched a brow. Did you want me to keep droning on, or did you want to start celebrating ? My lips twitched. You really do keep things casual. Even after all this time, you still don't believe me. His hand slid behind me and pinched. I bit my lip to keep from laughing. I hope you got me a good Solstice present. It was my turn to pinch him, and Rhys laughed, kissing my temple once before sauntering out of the room to no doubt grab more wine. Beyond the windows, darkness had indeed fallen. The longest night of the year. I found Elain studying it, beautiful in her amethyst-colored gown. I made to move toward her, but someone beat me to it. The shadowsinger was clad in a black jacket and pants similar to Rhysand's --the fabric immaculately tailored and built to fit his wings. He still wore his Siphons atop either hand, and shadows trailed his footsteps, curling like swirled embers, but there was little sign of the warrior otherwise. Especially as he gently said to my sister, "Happy Solstice." Elain turned from the snow falling in the darkness beyond and smiled slightly. "I've never participated in one of these." Amren supplied from across the room, Varian at her side, resplendent in his princely regalia, "They're highly overrated." Mor smirked. "Says the female who makes out like a bandit every year. I don't know how you don't get robbed going home with so much jewelry stuffed into your pockets." Amren flashed her too-white teeth. "Careful, Morrigan, or I'll return the pretty little thing I got you." Mor, to my surprise, shut right up. And so did the others, as Rhys returned with-- "You didn't." I blurted out the words. He grinned at me over the giant tiered cake in his arms--over the twenty-one sparkling candles lighting up his face. Cassian clapped me on the shoulder. "You thought you could sneak it past us, didn't you?" I groaned. "You're all insufferable." Elain floated to my side. "Happy birthday, Feyre." My friends--my family--echoed the words as Rhys set the cake on the low- lying table before the fire. I glanced toward my sister. "Did you ...?" A nod from Elain. "Nuala did the decorating, though." It was then that I realized what the three different tiers had been painted to look like. On the top: flowers. In the middle: flames. And on the bottom, widest layer ... stars. The same design of the chest of drawers I'd once painted in that dilapidated cottage. One for each of us--each sister. Those stars and moons sent to me, my mind, by my mate, long before we'd ever met. "I asked Nuala to do it in that order," Elain said as the others gathered round. "Because you're the foundation, the one who lifts us. You always have been." My throat tightened unbearably, and I squeezed her hand in answer. Mor, Cauldron bless her, shouted, "Make a wish and let us get to the presents!" At least one tradition did not change on either side of the wall. I met Rhys's stare over the sparkling candles. His smile was enough to make the tightness in my throat turn into burning in my eyes. What are you going to wish for? A simple, honest question. And looking at him, at that beautiful face and easy smile, so many of those shadows vanished, our family gathered around us, eternity a road ahead ... I knew. I truly knew what I wanted to wish for, as if it were a piece of Amren's puzzle clicking into place, as if the threads of the weaver's tapestry finally revealed the design they'd formed to make. I didn't tell him, though. Not as I gathered my breath and blew. Cake before dinner was utterly acceptable on Solstice, Rhys informed me as we set aside our plates on whatever surface was nearest in the sitting room. Especially before presents. "What presents?" I asked, surveying the room empty of them, save for Lucien's two boxes. The others grinned at me as Rhys snapped his fingers, and-- "Oh." Boxes and bags, all brightly wrapped and adorned, filled the bay windows. Piles and mountains and towers of them. Mor let out a squeal of delight. I twisted toward the foyer. I'd left mine in a broom closet on the third level-- No. There they were. Wrapped and by the back of the bay. Rhys winked at me. "I took it upon myself to add your presents to the communal trove." I lifted my brows. "Everyone gave you their gifts?" "He's the only one who can be trusted not to snoop," Mor explained. I looked toward Azriel. "Even him," Amren said. Azriel gave me a guilty cringe. "Spymaster, remember?" "We started doing it two centuries ago," Mor went on. "After Rhys caught Amren literally shaking a box to figure out what was inside." Amren clicked her tongue as I laughed. "What they didn't see was Cassian down here ten minutes earlier, sniffing each box." Cassian threw her a lazy smile. "I wasn't the one who got caught." I turned to Rhys. "And somehow you 're the most trustworthy one?" Rhys looked outright offended. "I am a High Lord, Feyre darling. Unwavering honor is built into my bones." Mor and I snorted. Amren strode for the nearest pile of presents. "I'll go first." "Of course she will," Varian muttered, earning a grin from me and Mor. Amren smiled sweetly at him before bending to pick up a gift. Varian had the good sense to shudder only when she'd turned her back on him. But she plucked up a pink-wrapped present, read the label, and ripped into it. Everyone tried and failed to hide their wince. I'd seen some animals tear into carcasses with less ferocity. But she beamed as she turned to Azriel, a set of exquisite pearl-and-diamond earrings dangling from her small hands. "Thank you, Shadowsinger," she said, inclining her head. Azriel only inclined his head in return. "I'm glad they pass inspection." Cassian elbowed his way past Amren, earning a hiss of warning, and began chucking presents. Mor caught hers easily, shredding the paper with as much enthusiasm as Amren. She grinned at the general. "Thank you, darling." Cassian smirked. "I know what you like." Mor held up-- I choked. Azriel did, too, whirling on Cassian as he did. Cassian only winked at him as the barely there red negligee swayed between Mor's hands. Before Azriel could undoubtedly ask what we were all thinking, Mor hummed to herself and said, "Don't let him fool you: he couldn't think of a damn thing to get me, so he gave up and asked me outright. I gave him precise orders. For once in his life, he obeyed them." "The perfect warrior, through and through," Rhys drawled. Cassian leaned back on the couch, stretching his long legs before him. "Don't worry, Rhysie. I got one for you, too." "Shall I model it for you?" I laughed, surprised to hear the sound echo across the room. From Elain. Her present ... I hurried to the pile of gifts before Cassian could lob one across the room again, hunting for the parcel I'd carefully wrapped yesterday. I just spied it behind a larger box when I heard it. The knock. Just once. Quick and hard. I knew. I knew, before Rhys even looked toward me, who was standing at that door. Everyone did. Silence fell, interrupted only by the crackling fire. A beat, and then I was moving, dress swishing around me as I crossed into the foyer, heaved open the leaded glass door and the oak one beyond it, then braced myself against the onslaught of cold. Against the onslaught of Nesta. <|title|>Chapter 20: Feyre <|startofchapter|>Snow clung to Nesta's hair as we stared at each other across the threshold. Pink tinged her cheeks from the frigid night, but her face remained solemn. Cold as the snow-dusted cobblestones. I opened the door a bit wider. "We're in the sitting room." "I saw." Conversation, tentative and halting, carried to the foyer. No doubt a noble attempt by everyone to give us some privacy and sense of normalcy. When Nesta remained on the doorstep, I extended a hand toward her. "Here-- I'll take your coat." I tried not to hold my breath as she glanced past me, into the house. As if weighing whether to take that step over the threshold. From the edge of my vision, purple and gold flashed--Elain. "You'll fall ill if you just stand there in the cold," she tutted to Nesta, smiling broadly. "Come sit with me by the fire." Nesta's blue-gray eyes slid to mine. Wary. Assessing. I held my ground. Held that door open. Without a word, my sister crossed the threshold. It was the matter of a moment to remove her coat, scarf, and gloves to reveal one of those simple yet elegant gowns she favored. She'd opted for a slate gray. No jewelry. Certainly no presents, but at least she'd come. Elain linked elbows to lead Nesta into the room, and I followed, watching the group beyond as they paused. Watching Cassian especially, now standing with Az at the fire. He was the portrait of relaxed, an arm braced against the carved mantel, his wings tucked in loosely, a faint grin on his face and a glass of wine in his hand. He slid his hazel eyes toward my sister without him moving an inch. Elain had plastered a smile onto her face as she led Nesta not toward the fire as she'd promised, but the liquor cabinet. "Don't take her to the wine--take her to the food," Amren called to Elain from her perch on the armchair as she slid the pearl earrings Az had given her into her lobes. "I can see her bony ass even through that dress." Nesta halted halfway across the room, spine stiff. Cassian went still as death. Elain paused beside our sister, that plastered-on smile faltering. Amren just smirked at Nesta. "Happy Solstice, girl." Nesta stared at Amren--until a ghost of a smile curved her lips. "Pretty earrings." I felt, more than saw, the room relax slightly. Elain said brightly, "We were just getting to presents." It occurred to me only when she said the words that none of the gifts in this room had Nesta's name on them. "We haven't eaten yet," I supplied, lingering in the threshold between the sitting room and foyer. "But if you're hungry, we can get you a plate--" Nesta accepted the glass of wine Elain pressed into her hand. I didn't fail to note that when Elain turned again to the liquor cabinet, she poured a finger of amber-colored liquor into a glass and knocked back the contents with a grimace before facing Nesta again. A soft snort from Amren at that, missing nothing. But Nesta's attention had gone to the birthday cake still sitting on the table, its various tiers delved into many times over. Her eyes lifted to mine in the silence. "Happy birthday." I offered a nod of thanks. "Elain made the cake," I offered somewhat uselessly. Nesta only nodded before heading for a chair near the back of the room, by one of the bookcases. "You can return to your presents," she said softly, but not weakly, as she sat. Elain rushed toward a box near the front of the pile. "This one's for you," she declared to our sister. I threw Rhys a pleading glance. Please start talking again. Please. Some of the light had vanished from his violet eyes as he studied Nesta while she drank from her glass. He didn't respond down the bond, but instead said to Varian, "Does Tarquin host a formal party for the Summer Solstice, or does he have a more casual gathering?" The Prince of Adriata didn't miss a beat, and launched into a perhaps unnecessarily detailed description of the Summer Court's celebrations. I'd thank him for it later. Elain had reached Nesta by then, offering her what seemed to be a heavy, paper-wrapped box. By the windows, Mor sprang into motion, handing Azriel his gift. Torn between watching the two, I remained in the doorway. Azriel's composure didn't so much as falter as he opened her present: a set of embroidered blue towels--with his initials on them. Bright blue. I had to look away to keep from laughing. Az, to his credit, gave Mor a smile of thanks, a blush creeping over his cheeks, his hazel eyes fixed on her. I looked away at the heat, the yearning that filled them. But Mor waved him off and moved to pass Cassian his gift; but the warrior didn't take it. Or take his eyes off Nesta as she undid the brown paper wrapping on the box and revealed a set of five novels in a leather box. She read the titles, then lifted her head to Elain. Elain smiled down at her. "I went into that bookshop. You know the one by the theater? I asked them for recommendations, and the woman--female, I mean ... She said this author's books were her favorite." I inched close enough to read one of the titles. Romance, from the sound of it. Nesta pulled out one of the books and fanned through the pages. "Thank you." The words were stiff--gravelly. Cassian at last turned to Mor, tearing open her present with a disregard for the fine wrapping. He laughed at whatever was inside the box. "Just what I always wanted." He held up a pair of what seemed to be red silk undershorts. The perfect match to her negligee. With Nesta pointedly preoccupied with flipping through her new books, I moved to the presents I'd wrapped yesterday. For Amren: a specially designed folding carrier for her puzzles. So she didn't need to leave them at home if she were to visit sunnier, warmer lands. This earned me both an eye roll and a smile of appreciation. The ruby-and-silver brooch, shaped like a pair of feathered wings, earned me a rare peck on the cheek. For Elain: a pale blue cloak with armholes, perfect for gardening in the chillier months. And for Cassian, Azriel, and Mor ... I grunted as I hauled over the three wrapped paintings. Then waited in foot- shifting silence while they opened them. While they beheld what was inside and smiled. I hadn't any idea what to get them, other than this. The pieces I'd worked on recently--glimpses of their stories. None of them explained what the paintings meant, what they beheld. But each of them kissed me on the cheek in thanks. Before I could hand Rhys his present, I found a heap of them in my lap. From Amren: an illuminated manuscript, ancient and beautiful. From Azriel: rare, vibrant paint from the continent. From Cassian: a proper leather sheath for a blade, to be set down the groove of my spine like a true Illyrian warrior. From Elain: fine brushes monogrammed with my initials and the Night Court insignia on the handles. And from Mor: a pair of fleece-lined slippers. Bright pink, fleece-lined slippers. Nothing from Nesta, but I didn't care. Not one bit. The others passed around their gifts, and I finally found a moment to haul the last painting over to Rhys. He'd lingered by the bay window, quiet and smiling. Last year had been his first Solstice since Amarantha--this year, his second. I didn't want to know what it had been like, what she'd done to him, during those forty-nine Solstices he'd missed. Rhys opened my present carefully, lifting the painting so the others wouldn't see it. I watched his eyes rove over what was on it. Watched his throat bob. "Tell me that's not your new pet," Cassian said, having snuck behind me to peer at it. I shoved him away. "Snoop." Rhys's face remained solemn, his eyes star-bright as they met mine. "Thank you." The others continued on a tad more loudly--to give us privacy in that crowded room. "I have no idea where you might hang it," I said, "but I wanted you to have it." To see. For on that painting, I'd shown him what I had not revealed to anyone. What the Ouroboros had revealed to me: the creature inside myself, the creature full of hate and regret and love and sacrifice, the creature that could be cruel and brave, sorrowful and joyous. I gave him me --as no one but him would ever see me. No one but him would ever understand. "It's beautiful," he said, voice still hoarse. I blinked away the tears that threatened at those words and leaned into the kiss he pressed to my mouth. You are beautiful, he whispered down the bond. So are you. I know. I laughed, pulling away. Prick. There were only a few presents left--Lucien's. I opened mine to find a gift for me and my mate: three bottles of fine liquor. You'll need it, was all the note said. I handed Elain the small box with her name on it. Her smile faded as she opened it. "Enchanted gloves," she read from the card. "That won't tear or become too sweaty while gardening." She set aside the box without looking at it for longer than a moment. And I wondered if she preferred to have torn and sweaty hands, if the dirt and cuts were proof of her labor. Her joy. Amren squealed--actually squealed --with delight when she beheld Rhys's present. The jewels glittering inside the multiple boxes. But her delight turned quieter, more tender when she opened Varian's gift. She didn't show any of us what was inside the small box before offering him a small, private smile. There was a tiny box left on the table by the window--a box that Mor lifted, squinted at the name tag, and said, "Az, this one's for you." The shadowsinger's brows lifted, but his scarred hand extended to take the present. Elain turned from where she'd been speaking to Nesta. "Oh, that's from me." Azriel's face didn't so much as shift at the words. Not even a smile as he opened the present and revealed-- "I had Madja make it for me," Elain explained. Azriel's brows narrowed at the mention of the family's preferred healer. "It's a powder to mix in with any drink." Silence. Elain bit her lip and then smiled sheepishly. "It's for the headaches everyone always gives you. Since you rub your temples so often." Silence again. Then Azriel tipped his head back and laughed. I'd never heard such a sound, deep and joyous. Cassian and Rhys joined him, the former grabbing the glass bottle from Azriel's hand and examining it. "Brilliant," Cassian said. Elain smiled again, ducking her head. Azriel mastered himself enough to say, "Thank you." I'd never seen his hazel eyes so bright, the hues of green amid the brown and gray like veins of emerald. "This will be invaluable." "Prick," Cassian said, but laughed again. Nesta watched warily from her chair, Elain's present--her only present--in her lap. Her spine stiffened slightly. Not at the words, but at Elain, laughing with them. With us. As if Nesta were looking at us through some sort of window. As if she were still standing out in the front yard, watching us in the house. I forced myself to smile, though. To laugh with them. I had a feeling Cassian was doing the same. The night was a blur of laughter and drinking, even with Nesta sitting in near- silence at the packed dinner table. It was only when the clock chimed two that the yawns began to appear. Amren and Varian were the first to leave, the latter bearing all of her presents in his arms, the former nestled in the fine ermine coat that he'd given her--a second gift to whatever one he'd put in that small box. Settled again in the sitting room, Nesta got to her feet half an hour later. She quietly bid Elain good night, dropping a kiss to the top of her hair, and drifted for the front door. Cassian, nestled with Mor, Rhys, and Azriel on the couch, didn't so much as move. But I did, rising from my own chair to follow Nesta to where she was donning her layers at the front door. I waited until she'd entered the antechamber before extending my hand. "Here." Nesta half turned toward me, focus darting to what was in my hand. The small slip of paper. The banker's note for her rent. And then some. "As promised," I said. For a moment, I prayed she wouldn't take it. That she would tell me to tear it up. But Nesta's lips only tightened, her fingers unwavering as she took the money. As she turned her back on me and walked out the front door, into the freezing darkness beyond. I remained in the chilly antechamber, hand still outstretched, the phantom dryness of that check lingering on my fingers. The floorboards thudded behind me, and then I was being gently but forcibly moved to the side. It happened so fast I barely had time to realize that Cassian had gone storming past--right out the front door. To my sister. <|title|>Chapter 21: Cassian <|startofchapter|>He'd had enough. Enough of the coldness, the sharpness. Enough of the sword-straight spine and razor-sharp stare that had only honed itself these months. Cassian could barely hear over the roaring in his head as he charged into the snowy night. Could barely register moving aside his High Lady to get to the front door. To get to Nesta. She'd already made it to the gate, walking with that unfaltering grace despite the icy ground. Her collection of books tucked under an arm. It was only when Cassian reached her that he realized he had nothing to say. Nothing to say that wouldn't make her laugh in his face. "I'll walk you home," was all that came out instead. Nesta paused just past the low iron gate, her face cold and pale as moonlight. Beautiful. Even with the weight loss, she was as beautiful standing in the snow as she'd been the first time he'd laid eyes on her in her father's house. And infinitely more deadly. In so many ways. She looked him over. "I'm fine." "It's a long walk, and it's late." And you didn't say one gods-damned word to me the entire night. Not that he'd said a word to her. She'd made it clear enough in those initial days after that last battle that she wanted nothing to do with him. With any of them. He understood. He really did. It had taken him months-- years --after his first battles to readjust. To cope. Hell, he was still reeling from what had happened in that final battle with Hybern, too. Nesta held her ground, proud as any Illyrian. More vicious, too. "Go back into the house." Cassian gave her a crooked grin, one he knew sent that temper of hers boiling. "I think I need some fresh air, anyway." She rolled her eyes and launched into a walk. He wasn't stupid enough to offer to carry her books. Instead, he easily kept pace, an eye out for any treacherous patches of ice on the cobblestones. They'd barely survived Hybern. He didn't need her snapping her neck on the street. Nesta lasted all of a block, the green-roofed houses merry and still full of song and laughter, before she halted. Whirled on him. "Go back to the house." "I will," he said, flashing a grin again. "After I drop you off at your front door." At that piece-of-shit apartment she insisted on living in. Across the city. Nesta's eyes--the same as Feyre's and yet wholly different, sharp and cold as steel--went to his hands. What was in them. "What is that." Another grin as he lifted the small, wrapped parcel. "Your Solstice present." "I don't want one." Cassian continued past her, tossing the present in his hands. "You'll want this one." He prayed she would. It had taken him months to find it. He hadn't wanted to give it to her in front of the others. Hadn't even known she'd be there tonight. He'd been well aware of Elain's and Feyre's cajoling. Just as he'd been well aware of the money he'd seen Feyre give to Nesta moments before she left. As promised, his High Lady had said. He wished she hadn't. Wished for a lot of things. Nesta fell into step beside him, huffing as she kept up with his long strides. "I don't want anything from you." He made himself arch an eyebrow. "You sure about that, sweetheart?" I have no regrets in my life, but this. That we did not have time. Cassian shut out the words. Shut out the image that chased him from his dreams, night after night: not Nesta holding up the King of Hybern's head like a trophy; not the way her father's neck had twisted in Hybern's hands. But the image of her leaning over him, covering Cassian's body with her own, ready to take the full brunt of the king's power for him. To die for him--with him. That slender, beautiful body, arching over him, shaking in terror, willing to face that end. He hadn't seen a glimpse of that person in months. Had not seen her smile or laugh. He knew about the drinking, about the males. He told himself he didn't care. He told himself he didn't want to know who the bastard was who had taken her maidenhead. Told himself he didn't want to know if the males meant anything--if he meant anything. He didn't know why the hell he cared. Why he'd bothered. Even from the start. Even after she'd kneed him in the balls that one afternoon at her father's house. Even as she said, "I've made my thoughts clear enough on what I want from you." He'd never met someone able to imply so much in so few words, in placing so much emphasis on you as to make it an outright insult. Cassian clenched his jaw. And didn't bother to restrain himself when he said, "I'm tired of playing these bullshit games." She kept her chin high, the portrait of queenly arrogance. "I'm not." "Well, everyone else is. Perhaps you can find it in yourself to try a little harder this year." Those striking eyes slid toward him, and it was an effort to stand his ground. "Try?" "I know that's a foreign word to you." Nesta stopped at the bottom of the street, right along the icy Sidra. "Why should I have to try to do anything?" Her teeth flashed. "I was dragged into this world of yours, this court." "Then go somewhere else." Her mouth formed a tight line at the challenge. "Perhaps I will." But he knew there was no other place to go. Not when she had no money, no family beyond this territory. "Be sure to write." She launched into a walk again, keeping along the river's edge. Cassian followed, hating himself for it. "You could at least come live at the House," he began, and she whirled on him. "Stop," she snarled. He halted in his tracks, wings spreading slightly to balance him. "Stop following me. Stop trying to haul me into your happy little circle. Stop doing all of it" He knew a wounded animal when he saw one. Knew the teeth they could bare, the viciousness they displayed. But it couldn't keep him from saying, "Your sisters love you. I can't for the life of me understand why, but they do. If you can't be bothered to try for my happy little circle's sake, then at least try for them." Avoid seemed to enter those eyes. An endless, depthless void. She only said, "Go home, Cassian." He could count on one hand the number of times she'd used his name. Called him anything other than you or that one. She turned away--toward her apartment, her grimy part of the city. It was instinct to lunge for her free hand. Her gloved fingers scraped against his calluses, but he held firm. "Talk to me. Nesta. Tell me--" She ripped her hand out of his grip. Stared him down. A mighty, vengeful queen. He waited, panting, for the verbal lashing to begin. For her to shred him into ribbons. But Nesta only stared at him, her nose crinkling. Stared, then snorted--and walked away. As if he were nothing. As if he weren't worth her time. The effort. A low-born Illyrian bastard. This time, when she continued onward, Cassian didn't follow. He watched her until she was a shadow against the darkness--and then she vanished completely. He remained staring after her, that present in his hands. Cassian's fingertips dug into the soft wood of the small box. He was grateful the streets were empty when he hurled that box into the Sidra. Hurled it hard enough that the splash echoed off the buildings flanking the river, ice cracking from the impact. Ice instantly re-formed over the hole he'd blown open. As if it, and the present, had never been. Nesta sealed the fourth and final lock on her apartment door and slumped against the creaking, rotting wood. Silence settled in around her, welcome and smothering. Silence, to soothe the trembling that had chased her across this city. He'd followed. She'd known it in her bones, her blood. He'd kept high in the skies, but he'd followed until she'd entered the building. She knew he was now waiting on a nearby rooftop to see her light kindle. Twin instincts warred within her: to leave the faelight untouched and make him wait in the freezing dark, or to ignite that bowl and just get rid of his presence. Get rid of everything he was. She opted for the latter. In the dim, thick silence, Nesta lingered by the table against the wall near her front door. Slid her hand into her pocket and pulled out the folded banknote. Enough for three months' rent. She tried and failed to muster the shame. But nothing came. Nothing at all. There was anger, occasionally. Sharp, hot anger that sliced her. But most of the time it was silence. Ringing, droning silence. She hadn't felt anything in months. Had days when she didn't really know where she was or what she'd done. They passed swiftly and yet dripped by. So did the months. She'd blinked, and winter had fallen. Blinked, and her body had turned too thin. As hollow as she felt. The night's frosty chill crept through the worn shutters, drawing another tremble from her. But she didn't light the fire in the hearth across the room. She could barely stand to hear the crack and pop of the wood. Had barely been able to endure it in Feyre's town house. Snap; crunch. How no one ever remarked that it sounded like breaking bones, like a snapping neck, she had no idea. She hadn't lit one fire in this apartment. Had kept warm with blankets and layers. Wings rustled, then boomed outside the apartment. Nesta loosed a shuddering sigh and slid down the wall until she was sitting against it. Until she drew her knees to her chest and stared into the dimness. Still the silence raged and echoed around her. Still she felt nothing. <|title|>Chapter 22: Feyre <|startofchapter|>It was three by the time the others went to bed. By the time Cassian returned, quiet and brooding, and knocked back a glass of liquor before stalking upstairs. Mor followed him, worry dancing in her eyes. Azriel and Elain remained in the sitting room, my sister showing him the plans she'd sketched to expand the garden in the back of the town house, using the seeds and tools my family had given her tonight. Whether he cared about such things, I had no idea, but I sent him a silent prayer of thanks for his kindness before Rhys and I slipped upstairs. I reached to remove my diamond cuffs when Rhys stopped me, his hands wrapping around my wrists. "Not yet," he said softly. My brows bunched. He only smiled. "Hold on." Darkness and wind swept in, and I clung to him as he winnowed-- Candlelight and crackling fire and colors ... "The cabin?" He must have altered the wards to allow us to winnow directly inside. Rhys grinned, letting go of me to swagger to the couch before the fireplace and plop down, his wings draping to the floor. "For some peace and quiet, mate." Dark, sensual promise lay in his star-flecked eyes. I bit my lip as I approached the rolled arm of the couch and perched on it, my dress glittering like a river in the firelight. "You look beautiful tonight." His words were low, rough. I stroked a hand down the lap of my gown, the fabric shimmering beneath my fingers. "You say that every night." "And mean it." I blushed. "Cad." He inclined his head. "I know High Ladies are probably supposed to wear a new dress every day," I mused, smiling at the gown, "but I'm rather attached to this one." He ran his hand down my thigh. "I'm glad." "You never told me where you got it--where you got all my favorite dresses." Rhys arched a dark brow. "You never figured it out?" I shook my head. For a moment, he said nothing, his head dipping to study the dress. "My mother made them." I went still. Rhys smiled sadly at the shimmering gown. "She was a seamstress, back at the camp where she'd been raised. She didn't just do the work because she was ordered to. She did it because she loved it. And when she mated my father, she continued." I grazed a reverent hand down my sleeve. "I--I had no idea." His eyes were star-bright. "Long ago, when I was still a boy, she made them --all your gowns. A trousseau for my future bride." His throat bobbed. "Every piece ... Every piece I have ever given you to wear, she made them. For you." My eyes stung as I breathed, "Why didn't you tell me?" He shrugged with one shoulder. "I thought you might be ... disturbed to wear gowns made by a female who died centuries ago." I put a hand over my heart. "I am honored, Rhys. Beyond words." His mouth trembled a bit. "She would have loved you." It was as great a gift as any I'd been given. I leaned down until our brows touched. I would have loved her. I felt his gratitude without him saying a word as we remained there, breathing each other in for long minutes. When I could finally speak again, I pulled away. "I've been thinking." "Should I be worried?" I slapped his boots, and he laughed, deep and rasping, the sound curling around my core. I showed him my palms, the eye in both of them. "I want these changed." "Oh?" "Since you're no longer using them to snoop on me, I figured they could be something else." He set a hand on his broad chest. "I never snoop." "You're the greatest busybody I've ever met." Another laugh. "And what, exactly, do you want on your palms?" I smiled at the paintings I'd done on the walls, the mantel, the tables. Thought of the tapestry I'd bought. "I want a mountain--with three stars." The Night Court insignia. "The same that you have on your knees." Rhys was quiet for a long time, his face unreadable. When he spoke, his voice was low. "Those are markings that can never be altered." "It's a good thing I plan to be here for a while, then." Rhys slowly sat up, unbuttoning the top of his tight black jacket. "You're sure?" I nodded slowly. He moved to stand before me, gently taking my hands in his, turning them palm-up. To the cat's eye that stared at us. "I never snooped, you know." "You certainly did." "Fine, I did. Can you forgive me?" He meant it--the worry that I'd deemed his glimpses a violation. I rose onto my toes and kissed him softly. "I suppose I could find it in me." "Hmmm." He bmshed a thumb over the eye inked into both of my palms. "Any last words before I mark you forever?" My heart thundered, but I said, "I have one last Solstice gift for you." Rhys went still at my soft voice, the tremble in it. "Oh?" Our hands linked, I caressed the adamant walls of his mind. The barriers immediately fell, allowing me in. Allowing me to show him that last gift. What I hoped he'd deem as a gift, too. His hands began shaking around mine, but he said nothing until I'd retreated from his mind. Until we were staring at each other again in silence. His breathing turned ragged, his eyes silver-lined. "You're sure?" he repeated. Yes. More than anything. I'd realized it, felt it, in the weaver's gallery. "Would it be ... Would it indeed be a gift for you?" I dared ask. His fingers tightened around mine. "Beyond measure." As if in answer, light flared and sizzled along my palms, and I peered down to find my hands altered. The mountain and three stars gracing the heart of each palm. Rhys was still staring at me, his breathing uneven. "We can wait," he said quietly, as if fearful of the snow falling outside hearing our whispered words. "I don't want to," I said, and meant it. The weaver had made me realize that, too. Or perhaps just see clearly what I'd quietly wanted for some time now. "It could take years," he murmured. "I can be patient." He lifted a brow at that, and I smiled, amending, "I can try to be patient." His own answering smile set me grinning. Rhys leaned in, brushing a kiss to my neck, right beneath my ear. "Shall we begin tonight, mate?" My toes curled. "That was the plan." "Mmm. Do you know what my plan was?" Another kiss, this one to the hollow of my throat as his hands slipped around my back and began to undo the hidden buttons of my dress. That precious, beautiful dress. I arched my neck to give him better access, and he obliged, his tongue flicking over the spot he'd just kissed. "My plan," he went on, the dress sliding from me to pool on the rug, "involved this cabin, and a wall." My eyes opened just as his hands began to trace long lines along my bare back. Lower. I found Rhys smiling down at me, his eyes heavy-lidded while he surveyed my naked body. Naked, save for the diamond cuffs at my wrists. I went to remove them, but he murmured, "Leave them." My stomach tightened in anticipation, my breasts turning achingly heavy. I unbuttoned the rest of his jacket, fingers shaking, and peeled it from him, along with his shirt. And his pants. Then he was standing naked before me, wings slightly flared, muscled chest heaving, showing me the full evidence of just how ready he was. "Do you want to begin at the wall, or finish there?" His words were guttural, barely recognizable, and the gleam in his eyes turned into something predatory. He slid a hand down the front of my torso in brazen possessiveness. "Or shall it be the wall the entire time?" My knees buckled, and I found myself beyond words. Beyond anything but him. Rhys didn't wait for my answer before kneeling before me, his wings draping over the rug. Before he pressed a kiss to my abdomen, as if in reverence and benediction. Then pressed a kiss lower. Lower. My hand slid into his hair, just as he gripped one of my thighs and hoisted my leg over his shoulder. Just as I found myself somehow leaning against the wall near the doorway, as if he'd winnowed us. My head hit the wood with a soft thud as Rhys lowered his mouth to me. He took his time. Licked and stroked me until I'd shattered, then laughed against me, dark and rich, before he rose to his full height. Before he hoisted me up, my legs wrapping around his waist, and pinned me against that wall. One arm braced on the wall, the other holding me aloft, Rhys met my eyes. "How shall it be, mate?" In his stare, I could have sworn galaxies swirled. In the shadows between his wings, the glorious depths of the night dwelled. "Hard enough to make the pictures fall off," I reminded him, breathless. He laughed again, low and wicked. "Hold on tight, then." Mother above and Cauldron save me. My hands slid onto his shoulders, digging into the hard muscle. But he slowly, so slowly, pushed into me. So I felt every inch of him, every place where we were joined. I tipped my head back again, a moan slipping out of me. "Every time," he gritted out. "Every time, you feel exquisite." I clenched my teeth, panting through my nose. He worked his way in, thrusting in small movements, letting me adjust to each thick inch of him. And when he was seated inside me, when his hand tightened on my hip, he just... stopped. I moved my hips, desperate for any friction. He shifted with me, denying it. Rhys licked his way up my throat. "I think about you, about this, every damn hour," he purred against my skin. "About the way you taste." Another slight withdrawal--then a plunge in. I panted and panted, leaning my head into the hard wall behind me. Rhys let out an approving sound, and withdrew slightly. Then pushed back in. Hard. A low rattle sounded down the wall to my left. I stopped caring. Stopped caring if we did indeed make the pictures fall off the wall as Rhys halted once more. "But mostly I think about this. How you feel around me, Feyre." He drove into me, exquisite and relentless. "How you taste on my tongue." My nails cut into his broad shoulders. "How even if we have a thousand years together, I will never tire of this" Release began to gather along my spine, shutting out all sound and sense beyond where he met me, touched me. Another thrust, longer and harder. The wood groaned beneath his hand. He lowered his mouth to my breast and nipped--nipped, and then licked away the hurt that sent pleasure zinging through my blood. "How you let me do such naughty, terrible things to you." His voice was a caress that had my hips moving, begging him to go faster. Rhys only chuckled softly, cruelly, as he withheld that all-out, unhinged joining I craved. I opened my eyes long enough to peer down, to where I could see him joined with me, moving so achingly slowly in and out of me. "Do you like watching?" he breathed. "Watching me move in you?" In answer, beyond words, I shot my mind down the bridge between us, brushing against his adamant shields. He let me in instantly, mind-to-mind and soul-to-soul, and then I was looking through his eyes--looking down at me as he gripped my hip and thrust. He purred, Look at how I fuck you, Feyre. Gods, was my only answer. Mental hands ran along my mind, my soul. Look at how perfectly we fit. My flushed body was arched against the wall--perfect indeed for receiving him, for taking every inch of him. Do you see why I can't stop thinking of this--of you? Again, he withdrew and drove in, and released the damper on his power. Stars flickered around us, sweet darkness sweeping in. As if we were the only souls in a galaxy. And still Rhys remained before me, my legs wrapped around his waist. I brushed my own mental hands down him and breathed, Can you fuck me in here, too? That wicked delight faltered. Went silent. The stars and darkness paused, too. Then undiluted, utter predator answered, It would be my pleasure. And then I didn't have the words for what happened. He gave me everything I wanted: the unleashed pounding of him inside my body--the unrelenting thrust and filling and slap of skin on skin, the slam of our bodies against wood. Night singing all around us, stars sweeping by like snow. And then there was us. Mind-to-mind, lain out on that bridge between our souls. We had no bodies here, but I felt him as he seduced me, his dark power wrapping around mine, licking at my flames, sucking on my ice, scraping claws against my own. I felt him as his power blended with mine, ebbing and flowing, in and out, until my magic lashed out, latching onto him, both of us raging and burning together. All while he moved in me, relentless and driving as the sea. Over and over, power and flesh and soul, until I think I was screaming, until I think he was roaring, and my mortal body clenched around him, shattering. Then I shattered, everything I was rupturing into stars and galaxies and comets, nothing but pure, shining joy. Rhys held me, enveloped me, his darkness absorbing the light that sparkled and blasted, keeping me whole, keeping me together. And when my mind could form words, when I could again feel his essence around me, his body still moving in my own, I sent him that image one last time, into the dark and stars--my gift. Perhaps our gift, one day. Rhys spilled into me with a roar, his wings splaying wide. And in our minds, down that bond, his magic erupted, his soul washing over mine, filling every crack and pit so that there was not one part of me that was not full of him, brimming with his dark, glorious essence and undimming love. He remained buried in me, leaning heavily against the wall as he panted against my neck, "FeyreFeyreFeyre." He was shaking. We both were. I worked up the presence of mind to crack open my eyes. His face was wrecked. Stunned. His mouth remained partially open as he gaped at me, the glow still radiating from my skin, bright against the star-kissed shadows along his. For long moments, we only stared. Breathed. And then Rhys glanced sidelong toward the rest of the room. Toward what we'd done. A sly smile formed on his lips as we took in the pictures that had indeed come off the wall, their frames cracked on the floor. A vase atop a nearby side table had even been knocked to the ground, shattered into little blue pieces. Rhys kissed beneath my ear. "That'll come out of your salary, you know." I whipped my head to him and released my grip on his shoulders to flick his nose. He laughed, brushing his lips against my temple. But I stared at the marks I'd left on his skin, already fading. Stared at the tattoos across his chest, his arms. Even an immortal's lifetime of painting wouldn't be enough to capture every facet of him. Of us. I lifted my eyes to his again and found stars and darkness waiting. Found home waiting. Never enough. Not to paint him, know him. Eons would never be enough for all I wanted to do, see with him. For all I wanted to love him. The painting shone before me: Night Triumphant--and the Stars Eternal. "Do it again," I breathed, my voice hoarse. Rhys knew what I meant. And I'd never been so glad for a Fae mate when he hardened again a heartbeat later, lowered me to the floor and flipped me onto my stomach, then plunged deep into me with a growling purr. And even when we eventually collapsed on the rug, barely avoiding the broken pictures and vase shards, unable to move for a good long while, that image of my gift remained between us, shimmering as bright as any star. That beautiful, blue-eyed, dark-haired boy that the Bone Carver had once shown me. That promise of the future. Velaris was still sleeping when Rhys and I returned the next morning. He didn't bring us to the town house, however. But to an estate along the river, the building in ruins, the gardens a tangle. Mist hung over much of the city in the hour before dawn. The words we'd exchanged last night, what we'd done, flowed between us, as invisible and solid as our mating bond. He hadn't taken his contraceptive tonic with breakfast. Wouldn't be taking it again anytime soon. "You never asked about your Solstice present," Rhys said after a while, our steps crunching in the frosted gravel of the gardens along the Sidra. I lifted my head from where I'd been leaning it against his shoulder while we'd ambled along. "I suppose you were waiting to make a dramatic reveal." "I suppose I was." He halted, and I paused beside him as he turned to the house behind us. "This." I blinked at him. At the rubble of the estate. "This?" "Consider it a Solstice and birthday present in one." He gestured to the house, the gardens, the grounds that flowed to the river's edge. With a perfect view of the Rainbow at night, thanks to the land's curve. "It's yours. Ours. I purchased it on Solstice Eve. Workers are coming in two days to begin clearing the rubble and knock down the rest of the house." I blinked again, long and slow. "You bought me an estate." "Technically, it will be our estate, but the house is yours. Build it to your heart's content. Everything you want, everything you need--build it." The cost alone, the sheer size of this gift had to be beyond astronomical. "Rhys." He paced a few steps, running his hands through his blue-black hair, his wings tucked in tight. "We have no space at the town house. You and I can barely fit everything in the bedroom. And no one wants to be at the House of Wind." He again gestured to the magnificent estate around us. "So build a house for us, Feyre. Dream as wildly as you want. It's yours." I didn't have words for it. What cascaded through me. "It--the cost --" "Don't worry about the cost." "But ..." I gaped at the sleeping, tangled land, the ruined house. Pictured what I might want there. My knees wobbled. "Rhys--it's too much." His face became deadly serious. "Not for you. Never for you." He slid his arms around my waist, kissing my temple. "Build a house with a painting studio." He kissed my other temple. "Build a house with an office for you, and one for me. Build a house with a bathtub big enough for two--and for wings." Another kiss, this time to my cheek. "Build a house with rooms for all our family." He kissed my other cheek. "Build a house with a garden for Elain, a training ring for the Illyrian babies, a library for Amren, and an enormous dressing room for Mor." I choked on a laugh at that. But Rhys silenced it with a kiss to my mouth, lingering and sweet. "Build a house with a nursery, Feyre." My heart tightened to the point of pain, and I kissed him back. Kissed him again, and again, the property wide and clear around us. "I will," I promised. <|title|>Chapter 23: Rhysand <|startofchapter|>The sex had destroyed me. Utterly mined me. Any lingering scrap of my soul that hadn't already belonged to her had unconditionally surrendered last night. And seeing Feyre's expression when I showed her the riverfront estate ... I held the memory of her shining, beautiful face close to me as I knocked on the cracked front doors of Tamlin's manor. No answer. I waited a minute. Two. I unspooled a thread of power through the house, sensing. Half dreading what I might find. But there--in the kitchens. A level below. Alive. I saw myself in, my steps echoing on the splintered marble floors. I didn't bother to veil them. He likely sensed my arrival the moment I'd winnowed onto his front step. It was a matter of a few minutes to reach the kitchen. I wasn't entirely prepared for what I saw. A great elk lay dead on the long worktable in the center of the dark space, the arrow through its throat illumined by the watery light leaking through the small windows. Blood pooled on the gray stone floor, its drip the only sound. The only sound as Tamlin sat in a chair before it. Staring at the felled beast. "Your dinner is leaking," I told him by way of greeting, nodding toward the mess gathering on the floor. No reply. The High Lord of Spring didn't so much as look up at me. Your mate should have known better than to kick a downed male. Lucien's words to Feyre yesterday had lingered. Perhaps it was why I'd left Feyre to explore the new paints Azriel had given her and winnowed here. I surveyed the mighty elk, its dark eyes open and glazed. A hunting knife lay embedded in the wood beside its shaggy head. Still no words, not even a whisper of movement. Very well, then. "I spoke to Varian, Prince of Adriata," I said, lingering on the other side of the table, the rack of antlers like a briar of thorns between us. "I requested that he ask Tarquin to dispatch soldiers to your border." I'd done it last night, pulling Varian aside during dinner. He'd readily agreed, swearing it would be done. "They will arrive within a few days." No reply. "Is that acceptable to you?" As part of the Seasonal Courts, Summer and Spring had long been allies--until this war. Slowly, Tamlin's head lifted, his unbound golden hair dull and matted. "Do you think she will forgive me?" The question was a rasp. As if he'd been screaming. I knew whom he meant. And I didn't know. I didn't know if her wishing him happiness was the same as forgiveness. If Feyre would ever want to offer that to him. Forgiveness could be a gift to both, but what he'd done ... "Do you want her to?" His green eyes were empty. "Do I deserve it?" No. Never. He must have read it on my face, because he asked, "Do you forgive me--for your mother and sister?" "I don't recall ever hearing an apology." As if an apology would ever right it. As if an apology would ever cover the loss that still ate at me, the hole that remained where their bright, lovely lives had once glowed. "I don't think one will make a difference, anyway," Tamlin said, staring at the felled elk once more. "For either of you." Broken. Utterly broken. You will need Tamlin as an ally before the dust has settled, Lucien had warned my mate. Perhaps that was why I'd come, too. I waved a hand, my magic slicing and sundering, and the elk's coat slid to the floor in a rasp of fur and slap of wet flesh. Another flicker of power, and slabs of meat had been carved from its sides, piled next to the dark stove--which soon kindled. "Eat, Tamlin," I said. He didn't so much as blink. It was not forgiveness--it was not kindness. I could not, would not, ever forget what he'd done to those I loved most. But it was Solstice, or had been. And perhaps because Feyre had given me a gift greater than any I could dream of, I said, "You can waste away and die after we've sorted out this new world of ours." A pulse of my power, and an iron skillet slid onto the now-hot stove, a steak of meat thumping into it with a sizzle. "Eat, Tamlin," I repeated, and vanished on a dark wind. <|title|>Chapter 24: Morrigan <|startofchapter|>She'd lied to Feyre. Sort of. She was going to the Winter Court. Just not as soon as she'd said. Viviane, at least, knew when to truly expect her. Although they'd been exchanging letters for months now, Mor still hadn't told even the Lady of the Winter Court where she'd be between Solstice in Velaris and her visit to Viviane and Kallias's mountain home. She didn't like telling people about this place. Had never mentioned it to the others. And as Mor galloped over the snowy hills, her mare, Ellia, a solid, warm weight beneath her, she remembered why. Early-morning mist hung between the bumps and hollows of the sprawling estate. Her estate. Athelwood. She'd bought it three hundred years ago for the quiet. Had kept it for the horses. Ellia took the hills with unfaltering grace, flowing fast as the west wind. Mor hadn't been raised to ride. Not when winnowing was infinitely faster. But with winnowing, it never felt as if she were actually traveling anywhere. As if she were going, running, racing to the next place. She wished it, and there she was. The horses, though ... Mor felt every inch of land they galloped across. Felt the wind and smelled the hills and snow and could see the passing wall of dense forest to her left. Alive. It was all alive, and her ever more so, when she rode. Athelwood had come with six horses, the previous owner having grown bored with them. All of them rare and coveted breeds. They'd been worth as much as the sprawling estate and three hundred pristine acres northwest of Velaris. A land of rolling hills and burbling streams, of ancient forests and crashing seas. She did not like being alone for long periods of time--couldn't stand it. But a few days here and there were necessary, vital for her soul. And getting out on Ellia was as rejuvenating as any day spent basking in the sun. She pulled Ellia to a halt atop one of the larger hills, letting the mare rest, even as Ellia yanked on the reins. She'd run until her heart gave out--had never been quite as docile as her handlers desired. Mor loved her all the greater for it. She had always been drawn to the untamed, wild things of the world. Horse and rider breathing hard, Mor surveyed her rolling grounds, the gray sky. Nestled in her Illyrian leathers and heated from the ride, she was comfortably warm. An afternoon reading by the crackling fire in Athelwood's extensive library followed by a hearty dinner and early bed would be bliss. How far away the continent seemed, Rhys's request with it. To go, to play spy and courtier and ambassador, to see those kingdoms long closed, where friends had once dwelled ... Yes, her blood called to her. Go as far and wide as you can. Go on the wind. But to leave, to let Keir believe he had made her go with his bargain with Eris Coward. Pathetic coward. She shut out the hissing in her head, running a hand down Elba's snowy mane. She had not mentioned it these past few days in Velaris. Had wanted to make this choice on her own, and had understood how the news might cast a shadow over the merriment. She knew Azriel would say no, would want her safe. As he had always done. Cassian would have said yes, Amren with him, and Feyre would have worried but agreed. Az would have been pissed, and withdrawn even further into himself. She hadn't wanted to take his joy away from him. Any more than she already did. But she'd have to tell them, regardless of what she decided, at some point. Elba's ears went flat against her head. Mor stiffened, following the mare's line of sight. To the tangle of wood to their left, little more than a thatch of trees from this distance. She rubbed Elba's neck. "Easy," she breathed. "Easy." Even in these woods, ancient terrors had been known to emerge. But Mor scented nothing, saw nothing. The tendril of power she speared toward the woods revealed only the usual birds and small beasts. A hart drinking from a hole in an iced-over stream. Nothing, except-- There, between a snarl of thorns. A patch of darkness. It did not move, did not seem to do anything but linger. And watch. Familiar and yet foreign. Something in her power whispered not to touch it, not to go near it. Even from this distance. Mor obeyed. But she still watched that darkness in the thorns, as if a shadow had fallen asleep amongst them. Not like Azriel's shadows, twining and whispering. Something different. Something that stared back, watching her in turn. Best left undisturbed. Especially with the promise of a crackling fire and glass of wine at home. "Let's take the short route back," she murmured to Elba, patting her neck. The horse needed no further encouragement before launching into a gallop, turning them from the woods and its shadowy watcher. Over and between the hills they rode, until the woods were hidden in the mists behind them. What else might she see, witness, in lands where none in the Night Court had ventured for millennia? The question lingered with every thunderous step from Ellia over snow and brook and hill. Its answer echoed off the rocks and trees and gray clouds overhead. Go. Go. <|title|>Chapter 25: Feyre <|startofchapter|>Two days later, I stood in the doorway of Polina's abandoned studio. Gone were the boarded-up windows, the drooping cobwebs. Only open space remained, clean and wide. I was still gaping when Ressina found me, halting on her path down the street, no doubt coming from her own studio. "Happy Solstice, my lady," she said, smiling brightly. I didn't return the smile as I stared and stared at the open door. The space beyond. Ressina laid a hand on my arm. "Is something wrong?" My fingers curled at my sides, wrapping around the brass key in my palm. "It's mine," I said quietly. Ressina's smile began to grow again. "Is it, now?" "They--her family gave it to me." It had happened this morning. I'd winnowed to Polina's family farm, somehow surprising no one when I'd appeared. As if they'd been waiting. Ressina angled her head. "So why the face?" "They gave it to me." I splayed my arms. "I tried to buy it. I offered her family money." I shook my head, still reeling. I hadn't even been back to the town house. Hadn't even told Rhys. I'd woken at dawn, Rhys already off to meet with Az and Cassian at Devlon's camp, and decided to hell with waiting. Putting life off didn't make a lick of sense. I knew what I wanted. There was no reason to delay. "They handed me the deed, told me to sign my name to it, and gave me the key." I rubbed my face. "They refused my money." Ressina let out a long whistle. "I'm not surprised." "Polina's sister, though," I said, my voice shaking as I pocketed the key in my overcoat, "suggested I use the money for something else. That if I wanted to give it away, I should donate it to the Brush and Chisel. Do you know what that is?" I'd been too stunned to ask, to do anything other than nod and say I would. Ressina's ochre eyes softened. "It's a charity for artists in need of financial help--to provide them and their families with money for food or rent or clothes. So they needn't go hungry or want for anything while they create." I couldn't stop the tears that blurred my vision. Couldn't stop myself from remembering those years in that cottage, the hollow ache of hunger. The image of those three little containers of paint that I'd savored. "I didn't know it existed," I managed to whisper. Even with all the committees that I volunteered to help, they had not mentioned it. I didn't know that there was a place, a world, where artists might be valued. Taken care of. I'd never dreamed of such a thing. A warm, slender hand landed on my shoulder, gently squeezing. Ressina asked, "So what are you going to do with it? The studio." I surveyed the empty space before me. Not empty-- waiting. And from far away, as if it was carried on the cold wind, I heard the Suriel's voice. Feyre Archeron, a request. Leave this world a better place than how you found it. I swallowed down my tears, and brushed a stray strand of my hair back into my braid before I turned to the faerie. "You wouldn't be looking for a wholly inexperienced business partner, would you?" <|title|>Chapter 26: Rhysand <|startofchapter|>The girls were in the training ring. Only six of them, and none looking too pleased, but they were there, cringing their way through Devlon's halfhearted orders on how to handle a dagger. At least Devlon had given them something relatively simple to learn. Unlike the Illyrian bows, a stack of them lingering by the girls' chalk-lined ring. As if in a taunt. A good number of males couldn't muster the strength to wield those mighty bows. I could still feel the whip of the string against my cheek, my wrist, my fingers during the years it had taken to master it. If one of the girls decided to take up the Illyrian bow, I'd oversee her lessons myself. I lingered with Cassian and Azriel at the far end of the sparring rings, the Windhaven camp glaringly bright with the fresh snow that had been dumped by the storm. As expected, the storm had finished yesterday--two days after Solstice. And as promised, Devlon had the girls in the ring. The youngest was around twelve, the eldest sixteen. "I thought there were more," Azriel muttered. "Some left with their families for Solstice," Cassian said, eyes on the training, hissing every now and then when one of the girls did a painfully wrong maneuver that went uncorrected. "They won't be back for a few more days." We'd shown him the lists Az had compiled of the possible troublemakers in these camps. Cassian had been distant ever since. More malcontents than we'd expected. A good number of them from the Ironcrest camp, notorious rival of this clan, where Kallon, son of its lord, was taking pains to stir up as much dissent as possible. All directed toward Cassian and myself. A ballsy move, considering Kallon was still a warrior-novice. Not even due to take the Rite until this spring or the next. But he was as bad as his brute of a father. Worse, Az claimed. Accidents happen in the Rite, I'd only suggested when Cass's face had tightened with the news. We won't dishonor the Rite by tampering with it, was his only reply. Accidents happen in the skies all the time, then, Azriel had coolly countered. If the whelp wants to bust my balls, he can grow a pair himself and do it to my face, Cassian had growled, and that was that. I knew him well enough to leave him to it--to decide how and when to deal with Kallon. "Despite the grumblings in the camps," I said to Cassian, gesturing toward the training rings. The males kept a healthy distance from where the few females trained, as if frightened of catching some deadly disease. Pathetic. "This is a good sign, Cass." Azriel nodded his agreement, his shadows twining around him. Most of the camp women had ducked into their homes when he'd appeared. A rare visit from the shadowsinger. Both myth and terror. Az looked just as displeased to be here, but he'd come when I asked. It was healthy, perhaps, for Az to sometimes remember where he'd come from. He still wore the Illyrian leathers. Had not tried to get the tattoos removed. Some part of him was Illyrian still. Always would be. Even if he wished to forget it. Cassian said nothing for a minute, his face a mask of stone. He'd been distant even before we'd gathered around the table in my mother's old house to deliver the report this morning. Distant since Solstice. I'd bet decent money on why. "It will be a good sign," Cassian said at last, "when there are twenty girls out there and they've shown up for a month straight." Az snorted softly. "I'll bet you--" "No bets," Cassian said. "Not on this." Az held Cassian's stare for a moment, cobalt Siphons flickering, and then nodded. Understood. This mission of Cassian's, hatched years ago and perhaps close to fruition ... It went beyond bets for him. Went down to a wound that had never really healed. I slung my arm around Cassian's shoulders. "Small steps, brother." I threw him a grin, knowing it didn't meet my eyes. "Small steps." For all of us. Our world might very well depend on it. <|title|>Chapter 27: Feyre <|startofchapter|>The city bells chimed eleven in the morning. A month later, Ressina and I stood near the front door, both of us in nearly identical clothes: thick, long sweaters, warm leggings, and sturdy, shearling- lined work boots. Boots that were already splattered with paint. In the weeks since Polina's family had gifted me the studio, Ressina and I had been here nearly every day. Readying the place. Figuring out our strategy. The lessons. "Any minute now," Ressina murmured, glancing to the small clock mounted on the bright white walls of the studio. That had been an endless debate: what color to paint the space? We'd wanted yellow, then decided that it might not display the art well enough. Black and gray were too dreary for the atmosphere we wanted, beige could also clash with the art ... So we'd gone with white. The back room, at least, we'd painted brightly--a different color on each wall. Green and pink and red and blue. But this front space ... Empty. Save for the tapestry I'd hung on one wall, the black of the Void mesmerizing. And a reminder. As much of a reminder as the impossible iridescence of Hope, glittering throughout. To work through loss, no matter how overwhelming. To create. And then there were the ten easels and stools set in a circle in the middle of the gallery floor. Waiting. "Will they come?" I murmured to Ressina. The faerie shifted on her feet, the only sign of her worry. "They said they would." In the month that we'd been working together, she'd become a good friend. A dear friend. Ressina's eye for design was impeccable, good enough that I'd asked her to help me plan the river-house. That's what I was calling it. Since river-manor ... No. House it would be, even if it was the largest home in this city. Not from any preening, but simply from practicality. From the size of our court, our family. A family that would perhaps keep growing. But that was later. For now ... A minute passed by. Then two. "Come on," Ressina muttered. "Perhaps they had the wrong time?" But as I said it, they emerged. Ressina and I held our breath as the pack of them rounded the corner, aiming for the studio. Ten children, High Fae and faerie, and some of their parents. Some of them--since others were no longer alive. I kept a warm smile on my face, even as my heart thundered with each child that passed through our door, wary and unsure, clustering near the easels. My palms sweated as the parents gathered with them, their faces less guarded, but still hesitant. Hesitant, yet hopeful. Not just for themselves, but the children they'd brought with them. We hadn't advertised broadly. Ressina had reached out to some friends and acquaintances, and requested they ask around. If there were children in this city who might need a place to express the horrors that had happened during the war. If there were children who might not be able to talk about what they'd endured, but could perhaps paint or draw or sculpt it. Perhaps they wouldn't do any of those things, but the act of creating something ... it could be a balm to them. As it was for me. As it was for the weaver, and Ressina, and so many of the artists in this city. Once word had gotten out, inquiries had poured in. Not just from parents or guardians, but from potential instructors. Artists in the Rainbow who were eager to help--to teach classes. I'd instruct one a day, depending on what was required of me as High Lady. Ressina would do another. And a rotating schedule of other teachers to teach the third and fourth classes of the day. Including the weaver, Aranea, herself. Because the response from parents and family had been overwhelming. How soon do classes start? was the most frequent question. The close second being How much does it cost? Nothing. Nothing, we told them. It was free. No child or family would ever pay for classes here--or the supplies. The room filled, and Ressina and I swapped a quick, relieved look. A nervous look, too. And when I faced the families gathered, the room open and sunny around us, I smiled once more and began. <|title|>Chapter 28: Feyre <|startofchapter|>He was waiting for me an hour and a half later. As the last of the children flitted out, some laughing, some still solemn and hollow-eyed, he held the door open for them and their families. They all gawked, bowing their heads, and Rhys offered them a wide, easy smile in return. I loved that smile. Loved that casual grace as he strode into the gallery, no sign of his wings today, and surveyed the still-drying paintings. Surveyed the paint splattered on my face and sweater and boots. "Rough day at the office?" I pushed back a strand of my hair. Knowing it was likely streaked with blue paint. Since my fingers were covered in it. "You should see Ressina." Indeed, she'd gone into the back moments ago to wash off a face full of red paint. Courtesy of one of the children, who'd deemed it a good idea to form a bubble of all the paint to see what color it would turn, and then float it across the room. Where it collided with her face. Rhys laughed when I showed him down the bond. "Excellent use of their budding powers, at least." I grinned, surveying one of the paintings beside him. "That's what I said. Ressina didn't find it so funny." Though she had. Smiling had been a little difficult, though, when so many of the children had both visible and unseen scars. Rhys and I studied a painting by a young faerie whose parents had been killed in the attack. "We didn't give them any detailed prompts," I said as Rhys's eyes roved around the painting. "We only told them to paint a memory. This is what she came up with." It was hard to look at. The two figures in it. The red paint. The figures in the sky, their vicious teeth and reaching claws. "They don't take their paintings home?" "These will dry first, but I asked her if she wanted me to keep this somewhere special. She said to throw it out." Rhys's eyes danced with worry. I said quietly, "I want to keep it. To put in my future office. So we don't forget." What had happened, what we were working for. Exactly why Aranea's tapestry of the Night Court insignia hung on the wall here. He kissed my cheek in answer and moved to the next painting. He laughed. "Explain this one." "This boy was immensely disappointed in his Solstice presents. Especially since it didn't include a puppy. So his 'memory' is one he hopes to make in the future--of him and his 'dog.' With his parents in a doghouse instead, while he and the dog live in the proper house." "Mother help his parents." "He was the one who made the bubble." He laughed again. "Mother help you." I nudged him, laughing now. "Walk me home for lunch?" He sketched a bow. "It would be my honor, lady." I rolled my eyes, shouting to Ressina that I'd be back in an hour. She called that I should take my time. The next class didn't come until two. We'd decided to both be at these initial classes, so the parents and guardians got to know us. And the children as well. It would be two full weeks of this before we got through the entire roster of classes. Rhys helped me with my coat, stealing a kiss before we walked out into the sunny, frigid day. The Rainbow bustled around us, artists and shoppers nodding and waving our way as we strode for the town house. I linked my arm through his, nestling into his warmth. "It's strange," I murmured. Rhys angled his head. "What is?" I smiled. At him, at the Rainbow, at the city. "This feeling, this excitement to wake up every day. To see you, and to work, and to just be here." Nearly a year ago, I'd told him the opposite. Wished for the opposite. His face softened, as if he, too, remembered it. And understood. I went on, "I know there's much to do. I know there are things we'll have to face. A few sooner than later." Some of the stars in his eyes banked at that. "I know there's the Illyrians, and the human queens, and the humans themselves, and all of it. But despite them ..." I couldn't finish. Couldn't find the right words. Or speak them without falling apart in public. So I leaned into him, into that unfailing strength, and said down the bond, You make me so very happy. My life is happy, and I will never stop being grateful that you are in it. I looked up to find him not at all ashamed to have tears slipping down his cheeks in public. I brushed a few away before the chill wind could freeze them, and Rhys whispered in my ear, "I will never stop being grateful to have you in my life, either, Feyre darling. And no matter what lies ahead"--a small, joyous smile at that--"we will face it together. Enjoy every moment of it together." I leaned into him again, his arm tightening around my shoulders. Around the top of the arm inked with the tattoo we both bore, the promise between us. To never part, not until the end. And even after that. I love you, I said down the bond. What's not to love? Before I could elbow him, Rhys kissed me again, breathless and swift. To the stars who listen, Feyre. I brushed a hand over his cheek to wipe away the last of his tears, his skin warm and soft, and we turned down the street that would lead us home. Toward our future--and all that waited within it. To the dreams that are answered, Rhys. The black water at her thrashing heels was freezing. Not the bite of winter chill, or even the burn of solid ice, but something colder. Deeper. It was the cold of the gaps between stars, the cold of a world before light. The cold of hell--true hell, she realized, as she bucked and kicked against the strong hands trying to shove her into that Cauldron. True hell, because that was Elain lying on the floor, the red-haired, one-eyed Fae male hovering over her. Because those were pointed ears poking through the sodden gold-brown hair, and that was an immortal glow resting upon Elain's fair skin. True hell, worse than the inky depths that waited mere inches from her toes. Put her in, the hard-faced king ordered. And the sound of that voice, the male who had done this to Elain ... She knew that she was going into the Cauldron. Knew she would lose this fight. Knew no one was coming to save her, not sobbing Feyre, not Feyre's gagged former lover, not her devastated new mate. Not Cassian, broken and bleeding on the floor, still trying to rise on trembling arms. The king--he had done this. To Elain. To Cassian. And to her. The icy water bit into the soles of her feet. It was a bite of venom, a bite of a death so permanent that every inch of her roared in defiance. She was going in, but she would not go gently. She would not go bowed to this Fae king. The water gripped her ankles with phantom hands, tugging her down. So she twisted, wrenching her arm free from the guard who held it. And so she pointed. One finger--at the king. Down down down that water wanted to pull her. But Nesta Archeron still pointed at the King of Hybern. A death-promise. A target marked. Hands shoved her into the water's awaiting claws. And Nesta Archeron laughed at the fear that crept into the king's eyes. Just before the water devoured her whole. In the beginning And at the end There was Darkness And nothing more She did not feel the cold as she sank into a sea of blackness that had no bottom, no horizon, no surface. But she felt the burning when it began. Immortality was not a serene youth. It was fire. It was molten ore poured into her veins, boiling up her human blood until it was nothing but steam, forging her brittle bones into fresh steel. When she opened her mouth to scream, when the pain ripped apart her very self, there was no sound. There was nothing here, in this place, but darkness and agony and power-- Not gently. She would not take this gently. She would not let them do this. To her, to Elain. She would not bow, or yield, or grovel. They would pay. All of them. Starting with this place, this thing. Starting now. She tore into the darkness with claws and talons and teeth. Rent and cleaved and shredded. The dark eternity around her shuddered. Bucked. Thrashed. She laughed as it tried to recoil. Laughed around the mouthful of raw power she ripped from the inky black around her and swallowed whole; laughed at the fistfuls of eternity she shoved into her heart, her veins. The Cauldron struggled like a bird under a cat's paw. She refused to relent her grip. Everything it had stolen from her, from Elain, she would take from it. From Hybern. So she did. Down into black eternity, Nesta and the Cauldron twined and fell, burning through the darkness like a newborn star. Cassian raised his fist to the green-painted door in the dim hallway--and hesitated. He'd cut down more enemies than he could count or remember, had stood knee-deep in gore on a killing field and kept swinging, had made choices that cost him the lives of good warriors, had been a general and a grunt and an assassin, and yet here he was, lowering his fist. Balking. The building on the north side of the Sidra was in need of new paint. And new floors, if the creaking boards beneath his boots had been any indication as he'd climbed the two flights. But at least it was clean. It was still grim by Velaris standards, but when the city itself had no slums, that wasn't saying much. He'd seen and stayed in far worse. But it didn't quite explain why she was staying here. Had insisted she live here, when the town house was sitting empty thanks to the river estate's completion. He could understand why she wouldn't bother taking up rooms in the House of Wind--it was too far from the city, and she couldn't fly or winnow in. But Feyre and Rhys gave her a salary. The same, generous one they gave him, and every member of their circle. So Cassian knew she could afford far, far better. He frowned at the peeling paint on the green door before him. No sounds trickled through the sizable gap between the door and floor; no fresh scents lingered in the hallway. Maybe he'd get lucky and she'd be out. Maybe she was still sleeping under the bar of whatever pleasure hall she'd frequented last night. Though maybe that'd be worse, since he'd have to track her down there, too. And a public scene ... He lifted his fist again, the red of his Siphon flickering in the ancient balls of faelight tucked into the ceiling. Coward. Grow some damned balls and do your job. Cassian knocked. Once. Twice. Silence. Cassian almost sighed. Thank the Mother-- Clipped, precise footsteps thudded toward the other side of the door. Each more pissed off than the last. He tucked his wings in tight, squaring his shoulders as he braced his feet slightly farther apart. She had four locks on her door, and the snap as she unlatched each of them might as well have been the beating of a war-drum. He ran through the list of things he was to say, how Feyre had suggested he say them, but-- The door yanked open, the knob twisting so hard Cassian wondered if she was imagining it was his neck. Nesta Archeron was already frowning. But there she was. And she looked like hell. "What do you want?" She didn't open the door wider than a hand's length. When the hell had he last seen her? The end-of-summer party on that barge in the Sidra last month? She hadn't looked this bad. Though a night trying to drown oneself in alcohol never left anyone looking particularly good the next morning. Especially when it was-- "It's seven in the morning," she hissed, looking him over with that gray-blue stare that was usually kindling to his temper. "Come back later." Indeed, she was in a male's shirt. That definitely didn't belong to her. He braced a hand on the threshold and gave her a lazy grin he knew brought out the best in her. "Rough night?" Rough year, he almost said. Because that beautiful face was indeed still pale, thinner than it'd been before the war, her lips bloodless, and those eyes ... Cold and sharp, like a winter morning. No joy, no laughter, in any plane of her exquisite face. "Come back in the afternoon," she said, making to slam the door on his hand. Cassian shoved out a foot before she could break his fingers. Her nostrils flared slightly. "Feyre wants you at the house." "Which one," Nesta said flatly, frowning at the foot he'd wedged there. "She has three, after all." He bit back the retort and the questions. This wasn't the selected battlefield, and he wasn't her opponent. No, his job was just to get her to the assigned spot. And then pray that the lovely riverfront home Feyre and Rhys had just moved into wouldn't be reduced to rubble. "She's at the new one." "Why didn't she come get me herself?" He knew that suspicious gleam in her eyes, the slight stiffening in her back. It had his own instincts surging to meet them, to push and push and see what might happen. "Because she is High Lady of the Night Court, and she's busy running the territory." Fine. Maybe they'd have a skirmish right here, right now. A nice prelude to the battle ahead. Nesta angled her head, golden-brown hair sliding over her too-thin shoulder. On anyone else, the movement would have been contemplative. On her, it was a predator sizing up prey. "And my sister," she said in that flat voice that refused to yield any sign of emotion, "deemed that meeting her right now was necessary?" "She knew you'd likely need to clean yourself up, and wanted you to get a head start. You're expected at eleven." He waited for the explosion as she took in the words, did the math. Her pupils flared. "Do I look like I need four hours to become presentable?" He took the invitation to survey her: long, bare legs, an elegant sweep of hips, tapered waist--again, too damn thin--and full, inviting breasts that were so at odds with the sharp angles of her bones. On any other female, he might have called the combination mouthwatering. Might have begun courting her from the moment he'd met her. But from the moment he'd met Nesta, the cold fire in her blue-gray eyes had been a temptation of a different sort. And now that she was High Fae, that inherent dominance, the aggression--and that piss-poor attitude ... There was a reason he avoided her as much as possible. Even after the war, things were still too volatile, both within the Night Court's borders and in the world beyond. And the female before him had always made him feel like he was standing in quicksand. Cassian said at last, "You look like you could use a few big meals, a bath, and some real clothes." She rolled her eyes, but fingered the shirt she wore. Cassian added, "Eleven o'clock. Kick the sorry prick out of here, get washed, and I'll bring you breakfast myself." Her brows rose slightly. He gave her a half-smile. "You think I can't hear that male in your bedroom, trying to quietly put on his clothes and sneak out the window?" As if in answer, a muffled thud came from the bedroom. Nesta hissed. Cassian said, "I'll be back in an hour to see how things are proceeding." He put enough bite behind the words that his soldiers would know not to push him, that he wore seven Siphons for a damned good reason. But Nesta did not fly in his legions, did not train under his command, and certainly did not seem to bother to remember that he was five hundred years old and-- "Don't bother. I'll be there on time." He pushed off the door, wings flaring slightly as he retreated a few steps and grinned in that way he knew made her see red. "That's not what I was asked to do. I'm to see you from door to door." Her face indeed tightened. "Go perch on a chimney." He sketched a bow, not daring to take his eyes off her. She'd emerged from that Cauldron with gifts. Considerable, dark gifts. And though she had not used them, or explained to even Feyre and Amren what they were, or even shown a hint of them in the year since the war ... he knew better than to make himself vulnerable to another predator. "Do you want your tea with milk or lemon?" She slammed the door in his face. Then locked each of those four locks. Slowly. Loudly. Whistling to himself, wondering if that poor bastard inside the apartment would indeed flee out the window--mostly to escape her --Cassian strode down the dim hallway, and went to find some food. He'd need it today, too--especially once Nesta learned precisely why her sister had summoned her. Nesta Archeron didn't know the male's name. She ransacked her wine-soaked memory as she strode for the bedroom, dodging columns of books and piles of clothing, recalling heated glances at the tavern, the initial wet, hot meeting of their mouths, the sweat coating her as she rode him until pleasure and drink sent her into oblivion, but... not the name. The male was already at the window, Cassian no doubt lurking on the street below to witness this spectacularly pathetic exit, when Nesta reached the dim, cramped bedroom. The sheets on the brass poster bed were rumpled, half-spilled on the creaky wood floor, and the cracked window was already open as the male turned to her. Handsome, in the way most Fae males were handsome. A bit thinner than she liked them--practically a boy compared to the towering mass of muscle that had just lurked outside her door. He winced as she padded in, and gave a pointed look to her shirt. "I ... That's ..." Nesta reached over her head and tugged off his shirt, leaving nothing but bare skin in its wake. His eyes widened, but the scent of his fear remained--not at her, but at who he'd heard at the front door. As he remembered who she was, both in the court, and to Cassian. She chucked his white shirt to him. "You can use the front door now." He swallowed, slinging the shirt over his head. "I--is he still--" His gaze kept snagging on her breasts, peaked against the chill morning, her bare skin. The apex of her thighs. "Good-bye," was all Nesta said, striding for the rusty and leaky bathroom attached to her bedroom. At least the place had hot running water. Sometimes. Feyre and the others had tried to convince her to move more times than she could count. Each time, she'd ignored it. Elain was happily ensconced in the new riverfront estate, and had spent the spring and summer planning and nurturing its spectacular gardens--all while avoiding her mate--but Nesta ... She was immortal, she was beautiful, and she had no intention of beginning an eternity of working for these people anytime soon. Before she'd gotten to enjoy all that the Fae had to offer. She had no doubt Feyre planned a scolding at their little meeting today. After all, Nesta had signed the outrageous tab at the pleasure hall last night to her sister's account. But neither Feyre nor her mate would do anything about it beyond idle threats. Nesta snorted, twisting the ancient faucet in the bath. It groaned, the metal icy to the touch, and water sputtered--then sprayed into the cracked, stained tub. This was her place. No servants, no eyes monitoring and judging every move, no company unless ... Unless busybody, puffed-up warriors made it their business to stop by. It took five minutes for the water to actually heat enough to fill the tub. That she would even get into it was the biggest accomplishment she'd made in the past year. It had begun with willing herself, forcing herself to put in her feet. Then, each time, going a little further. Until she'd been able to stomach sitting fully submerged in the tub without her heart thundering. It had taken her months to get that far. Today, at least, she slid into the hot water with little hesitation. By the time she'd finished washing away the sweat and other remnants of last night, a glance in the bedroom revealed the male had indeed taken the window out. The sex hadn't been bad. She'd had better, but also had much worse. Immortality still wasn't enough to teach some males the art of the bedroom. So she'd taught herself. Starting with the first male she'd taken here, who had no idea that her maidenhead was intact until he'd spied the speckled blood on the sheets. His face had gone white with terror--pure, ghastly white. Not for fear of Feyre and Rhysand's wrath. But the wrath of that insufferable Illyrian brute. Everyone somehow knew what had happened during the war; that final battle with Hybern. That Cassian had nearly bled out defending her against the King of Hybern, that she'd chosen to shield him with her body in those last moments. They had never spoken of it. She still barely spoke to anyone about anything, let alone the war. Yet as far as anyone was now concerned, the events of that last battle had bound them. Her and Cassian. No matter that she could scarcely stand to be around him. No matter that she had once, long ago, in a mortal body and in a house that no longer existed, let him kiss her throat. Being near him made her want to shatter things. As her power sometimes did, unbidden. Secretly. Nesta surveyed the ramshackle, dark apartment, the sagging and filthy furniture that had come with it, the clothes and dishes she left untended. Rhysand had offered her jobs. Positions. She didn't want them. They were pity offerings, some attempt to get her to be a part of their life, to be gainfully occupied. Done not because Rhysand particularly liked her, but because he loved Feyre that much. No, the High Lord had never liked her--and their conversations were coldly civil at best. So any offering, she knew, was made to appease his mate. Not because Nesta was truly needed for it. Truly ... wanted. Better to spend her time the way she wished to. They kept paying for it, after all. The knock on the door rattled the entire apartment. She glared toward the front room, debating pretending she'd left, but ... he could hear her, smell her. And if Cassian broke down the door, which he was likely to do, she'd just have the headache of explaining it to her stingy landlord. So she freed all four locks. Locking them each night was part of the ritual. Even when the nameless male had been here, even with the wine, she'd remembered to lock them all. Some muscle memory buried deep. She'd installed them that first day she'd arrived months and months ago, and had locked them every night since. Nesta yanked open the door enough to spy Cassian's cocky grin and left it ajar as she stormed back inside for her shoes. He took the unspoken invitation and walked in, a mug of tea in his hand--the cup no doubt borrowed from the shop at the corner. Or outright given to him, considering how people tended to worship the ground his muddy boots walked on. He surveyed the squalor and let out a low whistle. "You do know that you could hire a maid, don't you?" She scanned the small living area for her shoes--a sagging couch, a soot- stained hearth, a moth-eaten armchair--then the cracked and ancient kitchenette, then traced her steps into her bedroom. Where had she kicked them last night? "Some fresh air would be a good start," he added from the other room, the window groaning as he no doubt cracked it open to let in the early-autumn breeze. She found her shoes in opposite corners of the bedroom. One reeked of spilled wine and ale. Nesta perched on the edge of her bed, sliding on her shoes, tugging at the laces. She didn't bother to look up as Cassian's steady steps approached, then halted at the threshold. He sniffed once. Loudly. It said enough. "I'd hoped you at least changed the sheets between visitors, but ... apparently that doesn't bother you, either." She tied the lace on the first shoe and looked up at him beneath lowered brows. "Again, what business is it of yours?" He shrugged, though the tightness on his face didn't reflect it. "If I can smell a few different males in here, then surely your ... companions can, too." "Hasn't stopped them yet." She tied the other shoe, Cassian's hazel eyes tracking the movement. "Your tea is getting cold," he said through his teeth. She ignored him and rose to her feet, searching the bedroom again. Her coat "Your coat is on the floor by the front door," he said sharply. "And it's going to be brisk out, so bring a scarf." She ignored that, too, but strode past him, careful to avoid touching him, and found her dark blue overcoat exactly where he'd said it was. Only a few days ago had summer begun to yield to fall, drastically enough that she'd needed to pull out her warmer attire. Nesta yanked open the front door, pointing for him to go. Cassian held her gaze as he strode for her, then reached out an arm-- And plucked the cerulean-and-cream scarf Elain had given her for her birthday this spring off the brass hook on the wall. He gripped it in his fist as he stalked out, the scarf dangling like a strangled snake. Something was eating at him. Usually, Cassian held out a bit longer before yielding to his temper. Perhaps it had to do with whatever Feyre wanted to tell her up at the house. Her gut twisted a bit as she strode into the hall and set each lock, including the magical one Feyre had insisted Rhys install, linked to her blood and will. She wasn't stupid--she knew there had been unrest, both in Prythian and on the continent, since the war had ended. Knew some Fae territories were pushing their new limits on what they could get away with in terms of territory claims and how they treated humans. But if some new threat had arisen ... Nesta shoved out the thought. She'd think about it when the time came. If the time came. No use wasting her energy on a phantom fear. The four locks seemed to laugh at her before she silently followed Cassian out of the building, and into the bustling city beyond. The riverfront house was more of an estate, and so new and clean and beautiful that Nesta realized that she was wearing two-day-old clothes, hadn't washed her hair, and her shoes were indeed covered in stale wine precisely as she strode through the towering marble archway and into the shining white-and-sand- colored front hall. A sweeping staircase bisected the enormous space, either side of it shaped like a pair of spread wings, and a chandelier of hand-blown Velaris glass fashioned after a cluster of shooting stars drooped from the carved ceiling to meet it. The faelights in each golden orb cast shimmering reflections on the polished white marble floors, interrupted only by potted plants, wood furniture also made in Velaris, and art-art-art. Plush blue rugs broke up the perfect floors, a long runner leading down the cavernous hallway on either side of the entry, and one flowing straight beneath the stairs--to the sloping lawn and gleaming river beyond. Trailing Cassian, Nesta headed to the left--toward the formal rooms for business, Feyre had told her, during that first and only tour two months ago. She'd been half-drunk at the time, and had hated every second of it, every perfect, happy room. Most males bought their wives and mates jewelry for an outrageous Solstice present. Rhys had bought Feyre a palace. No--he'd purchased the war-decimated property, and then given his mate free rein to design the residence of both their dreams. And somehow, Nesta thought as she silently followed an unnaturally quiet Cassian down the hall toward one of the studies whose doors were already open, Feyre and Rhys had managed to make this place seem cozy, welcoming. A behemoth of a building, but a home, somehow. Even the formal furniture, while beautiful, seemed designed for comfort and lounging, for long conversations over good food. Every piece of art had been picked by Feyre herself, or painted by her, so many of them portraits and depictions of them --her friends, her new family. There was not one of her, naturally. Even their gods-damned father had a picture in here, with him and Elain, smiling and happy, as they'd been before the world went to shit. But during that tour, Nesta had noted the lack of herself here. Said nothing, of course, but it was a pointed absence. It was enough to set her teeth on edge as Cassian slipped inside the study and said to whoever was inside, "She's here." Nesta braced herself for whatever waited within, but Feyre merely chuckled and said, "You're five minutes early. I'm impressed." "Seems like a good omen for gambling. We should head to Rita's," Cassian drawled just as Nesta stepped into the wood-paneled room. The study opened into a garden courtyard, the space warm and merry and rich, and Nesta might have admitted that she liked the floor-to-ceiling oak bookshelves, the plush green-velvet furniture before the pale marble hearth, had she not seen who was sitting inside. Feyre perched on the couch, clad in a heavy cream sweater and dark leggings. Rhys, clad in his usual black, leaned against the marble mantel, arms crossed. And Amren, in her usual gray--cross-legged in the Illyrian armchair by the roaring hearth, those uptilted silver eyes sweeping over Nesta with distaste. So much had changed between her and the small lady, perhaps more than any other relationship. Nesta didn't let herself think about that argument at the end-of-summer party on the river barge. Or the silence between her and Amren since then. Feyre, at least, smiled. "I heard you had quite the night." Nesta merely glanced between where Cassian took a seat in the armchair across from Amren, the empty spot on the couch beside Feyre, and where Rhys stood by the hearth. In far more formal clothes than he usually wore. The High Lord's clothes. Even if the High Lady of the Night Court was in attire fit for lounging on the sunny autumn day around them. Nesta kept her spine straight, her chin high, hating that they all stared at her as she sat on the couch beside her sister. Hating that Rhys and Amren undoubtedly noted the filthy shoes, scented her old clothes, and probably still smelled that male on her. "You look horrible," Amren said. Nesta wasn't stupid enough to glare. So she simply ignored her. "Though it's hard to look good," Amren went on, "when you're out until the darkest hours of the night, drinking yourself stupid and fucking anything that comes your way." Feyre whipped her head to the High Lord's Second. But Rhysand looked inclined to agree with Amren. Cassian, at least, kept his mouth shut, and before Feyre could say anything to confirm or deny it, Nesta beat them to it and said, "I wasn't aware that my physical looks were under your jurisdiction." Cassian loosed a breath that sounded like a warning. Amren's silver eyes glowed, a small remnant of the terrible power she'd once wielded. "They are when you spend that many of our gold marks on wine and garbage." Perhaps she had pushed them too far with last night's tab. Interesting. Nesta looked to Feyre, who was wincing on the other end of the couch. "So you made me come to you for a scolding?" Feyre's eyes--the eyes they both shared--seemed to soften slightly. "No. It's not a scolding." She cut a sharp glance at Rhys, still icily silent against the mantel, and then to Amren, seething in her chair. "Think of this as a ... discussion." "I don't see how my life is any of your concern, or up for any sort of discussion," Nesta bit out, and shot to her feet. "Sit down," Rhys snarled. And the raw command in that voice, the utter dominance and power ... Nesta froze, fighting it, hating that Fae part of her that bowed to such things. Cassian leaned forward in his chair, as if he'd leap between them. But Nesta held Rhysand's lethal gaze. Threw every ounce of defiance she could into it, even as his order held her still. Made her knees want to bend, to sit. Rhys said too quietly, "You are going to sit. You are going to listen." She let out a low laugh. "You're not my High Lord. You don't give me orders." But she knew how powerful he was. Had seen it, felt it. Still trembled to be near him. The most powerful High Lord in history. Rhys scented that fear. She knew it from the second one side of his mouth curled up in a cruel smile. "That's enough," Feyre said, more to Rhys than her. Then indeed snapped at her mate, "I told you to keep out of it." He dragged those star-flecked eyes to Feyre, and it was all Nesta could do to keep from collapsing onto the couch as her knees gave out. Feyre angled her head at her mate, nostrils flaring. "You can either leave," she hissed at him, "or you can stay and keep your mouth shut." Rhys just crossed his arms. But said nothing. "You too," Feyre spat in Amren's direction. The little female harrumphed and nestled back in her chair. Nesta didn't bother to look pleasant as Feyre twisted to face her. Her sister swallowed. "We need to make some changes, Nesta," Feyre said hoarsely. "You do--and we do." They were kicking her out. Throwing her into the wild, perhaps to go back to the human lands-- "I'll take the blame," Feyre went on, "for things getting this far, and getting this bad. After the war, with everything else that was going on, it ... you ... should have been there to help you, but I wasn't, and I am ready to admit that this is partially my fault." "That what is your fault," Nesta demanded. "You," Cassian said from the armchair to her left. "This bullshit behavior." Her spine locked up, fire boiled in her veins at the insult, the arrogance -- "I understand how you're feeling," Feyre cut in. "You know nothing about how I'm feeling," Nesta snapped. "It's time for some changes." Feyre plowed ahead. "Starting now." "Keep your self-righteous do-gooder nonsense out of my life." "You don't have a life," Feyre retorted. "You have quite the opposite. And I'm not going to sit by and watch you destroy yourself for another moment." "Oh?" Rhys tensed at the sneer, but said nothing, as he'd promised. "I want you out of Velaris," Feyre breathed, her voice shaking. Nesta tried--tried and failed--not to feel the blow, the sting of the words. Though she didn't know why she was surprised by it. There were no paintings of her in this house, they did not invite her to parties or dinners anymore, they certainly didn't visit-- "And where," Nesta asked, her voice mercifully icy, "am I supposed to go?" Feyre only looked to Cassian. And for once, the Illyrian warrior wasn't grinning as he said, "You're coming with me to the Illyrian Mountains." <|startofbook|><|title|>A Court of Silver Flames <|title|>Chapter 1 <|startofchapter|>Cassian raised his fist to the green door in the dim hallway--and hesitated. He'd cut down more enemies than he cared to tally, had stood knee- deep in gore on countless battlefields and kept swinging, had made choices that cost him the lives of skilled warriors, had been a general and a grunt and an assassin, and yet ... here he was, lowering his fist. Balking. The building on the north side of the Sidra River was in need of new paint. And new floors, if the creaking boards beneath his boots as he'd climbed the two flights had been any indication. But at least it was clean. Definitely grim by Velaris's standards, but when the city itself had no slums, that wasn't saying much. He'd seen and stayed in far worse. He'd never understood, though, why Nesta insisted on dwelling here. He got why she wouldn't take up rooms in the House of Wind--it was too far from the city, and she couldn't fly or winnow in. Which meant dealing with the ten thousand steps up and down. But why live in this dump, when the town house was sitting empty? Since construction had finished on Feyre and Rhys's sprawling home on the river, the town house had been left open to any of their friends who needed or wanted it. He knew for a fact that Feyre had offered Nesta a room there--and had been rejected. He frowned at the door's peeling paint. No sounds trickled through the sizable gap between the door and the floor, wide enough for even the fattest of rats to meander through; no fresh scents lingered in the cramped hallway. Maybe he'd get lucky and she'd be out--perhaps sleeping under the bar of whatever seedy tavern she'd frequented last night. Though that might be worse, since he'd need to track her down there instead. Cassian lifted his fist again, the red of his Siphon flickering in the ancient faelights tucked into the ceiling. Coward. Grow some damned balls. Cassian knocked once. Twice. Silence. Cassian almost sighed his relief aloud. Thank the fucking Mother-- Clipped, precise footsteps sounded from the other side of the door. Each more pissed off than the last. He tucked his wings in tight, squaring his shoulders as he braced his feet apart. A traditional fighting stance, beaten into him during his training years, now mere muscle memory. He didn't dare consider why the sound of those footsteps sent his body falling into it. The snap as she unlatched each of her four locks might as well have been the beating of a war-drum. Cassian ran through the list of things he was to say, how Feyre had suggested he say them. The door was yanked open, the knob twisting so hard Cassian wondered if she was imagining it as his neck. Nesta Archeron already wore a scowl. But there she was. She looked like hell. "What do you want?" She didn't open the door wider than a hand's breadth. When had he last seen her? The end-of-summer party on that barge in the Sidra last month? She hadn't looked this bad. Though he supposed a night trying to drown oneself in wine and liquor never left anyone looking particularly good the next morning. Especially at-- "It's seven in the morning," she went on, raking him over with that gray-blue stare that always kindled his temper. She wore a male's shirt. Worse, she wore only a male's shirt. Cassian propped a hand on the doorjamb and gave her a half grin he knew brought out her claws. "Rough night?" Rough year, really. Her beautiful face was pale, far thinner than it had been before the war with Hybern, her lips bloodless, and those eyes ... Cold and sharp, like a winter morning in the mountains. No joy, no laughter, in any plane of it. Of her. She made to shut the door on his hand. He shoved a booted foot into the gap before she could break his fingers. Her nostrils flared slightly. "Feyre wants you at the house." "Which one?" Nesta said, frowning at the foot he'd wedged in the door. "She has five." He bit back his retort. This wasn't the battlefield--and he wasn't her opponent. His job was to transport her to the assigned spot. And then pray that the lovely home Feyre and Rhys had just moved into wouldn't be reduced to rubble. "The new one." "Why didn't my sister fetch me herself?" He knew that suspicious gleam in her eye, the slight stiffening of her back. His own instincts surged to meet her defiance, to push and push and discover what might happen. Since Winter Solstice, they'd exchanged only a handful of words. Most had been at the barge party last month. They'd consisted of: Move. Hello, Nes. Move. Gladly. After months and months of nothing, of barely seeing her at all, that had been it. He hadn't even understood why she'd shown up to the party, especially when she knew she'd be stuck on the water with them for hours. Amren likely deserved the credit for the rare appearance, due to whatever bit of sway the female held over Nesta. But by the end of that night, Nesta had been at the front of the line to get off the boat, arms tight around herself, and Amren had been brooding at the other end of it, nearly shaking with rage and disgust. No one had asked what had happened between them, not even Feyre. The boat had docked, and Nesta had practically run off, and no one had spoken to her since. Until today. Until this conversation, which felt like the longest they'd had since the battles against Hybern. Cassian said at last, "Feyre is High Lady. She's busy running the Night Court." Nesta cocked her head, gold-brown hair sliding over a bony shoulder. On anyone else, the movement would have been contemplative. On her, it was the warning of a predator, sizing up prey. "And my sister," she said in that flat voice that refused to yield any sign of emotion, "deemed my immediate presence necessary?" "She knew you'd likely need to clean yourself up, and wanted to give you a head start. You're expected at nine." He waited for the explosion as she did the math. Her eyes flared. "Do I look like I need two hours to become presentable?" He took the invitation to survey her: long bare legs, an elegant sweep of hips, tapered waist--too damn thin--and full, inviting breasts that were at odds with the new, sharp angles of her body. On any other female, those magnificent breasts might have been enough cause for him to begin courting her the moment he met her. But from the instant he'd met Nesta, the cold fire in her eyes had been a temptation of a different sort. And now that she was High Fae, all inherent dominance and aggression --and piss-poor attitude--he avoided her as much as possible. Especially with what had happened during and after the war against Hybern. She'd made her feelings about him more than clear. Cassian said at last, "You look like you could use a few big meals, a bath, and some real clothes." Nesta rolled her eyes, but fingered the hem of her shirt. Cassian added, "Kick out the sorry bastard, get washed, and I'll bring you some tea." Her brows rose a fraction of an inch. He gave her a crooked smile. "You think I can't hear that male in your bedroom, trying to quietly put on his clothes and sneak out the window?" As if in answer, a muffled thud came from the bedroom. Nesta hissed. "I'll be back in an hour to see how things are proceeding." Cassian put enough bite behind the words that his soldiers would know not to push him --they'd remember that he required seven Siphons to keep his magic under control for good reason. But Nesta did not fly in his legions, did not fight under his command, and certainly did not seem to recall that he was over five hundred years old and-- "Don't bother. I'll be there on time." He pushed off the doorjamb, wings flaring slightly as he backed away a few steps. "That's not what I was asked to do. I'm to see you from door to door." Her face tightened. "Go perch on a chimney." He sketched a bow, not daring to take his eyes off her. She'd emerged from the Cauldron with ... gifts. Considerable gifts--dark ones. But no one had seen nor felt any sign of them since that last battle with Hybern, since Amren had shattered the Cauldron and Feyre and Rhys had managed to heal it. Elain, too, had revealed no indication of her seer's abilities since then. But if Nesta's power remained, still capable of leveling battlefields ... Cassian knew better than to make himself vulnerable to another predator. "Do you want your tea with milk or lemon?" She slammed the door in his face. Then locked each of those four locks. Whistling to himself and wondering if that poor bastard inside the apartment would indeed flee out the window--mostly to escape her-- Cassian strode down the dim hallway and went to find some food. He'd need the sustenance today. Especially once Nesta learned precisely why her sister had summoned her. Nesta Archeron didn't know the name of the male in her apartment. She ransacked her wine-soaked memory as she returned to the bedroom, dodging piles of books and lumps of clothing, recalling heated glances at the tavern, the wet, hot meeting of their mouths, the sweat coating her as she rode him until pleasure and drink sent her into blessed oblivion, but not his name. The male had already leaned out the window, with Cassian no doubt lurking on the street below to witness his spectacularly pathetic exit, when Nesta reached the dim, cramped bedroom. The brass-poster bed was rumpled, the sheets half-spilled on the creaky, uneven wood floor, and the cracked window banged against the wall on its loose hinges. The male twisted toward her. He was handsome, in the way most High Fae males were handsome. A bit thinner than she liked them--practically a boy compared to the towering mass of muscle that had just filled her doorway. He winced as she padded in, his expression turning pained as he noted what she wore. "I ... That's ..." Nesta tugged off his shirt, leaving nothing but bare skin in its wake. His eyes widened, but the scent of his fear remained--not fear of her, but of the male he'd heard at the front door. As he remembered who her sister was. Who her sister's mate was. Who her sister's friends were. As if any of that meant something. What would his fear smell like if he learned she'd used him, slept with him, to keep herself at bay? To settle that writhing darkness that had simmered inside her from the moment she'd emerged from the Cauldron? Sex, music, and drink, she'd learned this past year--all of it helped. Not entirely, but it kept the power from boiling over. Even if she could still feel it streaming through her blood, coiled tight around her bones. She chucked the white shirt at him. "You can use the front door now." He slung the shirt over his head. "I-- Is he still--" His gaze kept snagging on her breasts, peaked against the chill morning; her bare skin. The apex of her thighs. "Good-bye." Nesta entered the rusty, leaky bathroom attached to her bedroom. At least the place had hot running water. Sometimes. Feyre and Elain had tried to convince her to move. She'd always ignored their advice. Just as she'd ignore whatever was said today. She knew Feyre planned a scolding. Perhaps something to do with the fact that Nesta had signed last night's outrageous tab at the tavern to her sister's bank account. Nesta snorted, twisting the handle in the bath. It groaned, the metal icy to the touch, and water sputtered, then sprayed into the cracked, stained tub. This was her residence. No servants, no eyes monitoring and judging every move, no company unless she invited them. Or unless prying, swaggering warriors made it their business to stop by. It took five minutes for the water to actually heat enough to start filling the tub. There had been some days in the past year when she hadn't even bothered to take the time. Some days when she'd climbed into the icy water, not feeling its bite but that of the Cauldron's dark depths as it devoured her whole. As it ripped away her humanity, her mortality, and made her into this. It had taken her months of battling it--the body-tensing panic that made her very bones tremble to be submerged. But she'd forced herself to face it down. Had learned to sit in the icy water, nauseated and shaking, teeth gritted; had refused to move until her body recognized that she was in a tub and not the Cauldron, that she was in her apartment and not the stone castle across the sea, that she was alive, immortal. Even though her father was not. No, her father was ashes in the wind, his existence marked only by a headstone on a hill outside this city. Or so her sisters had told her. I loved you from the first moment I held you in my arms, her father had said to her in those last moments together. Don't you lay your filthy hands on my daughter. Those had been his final words, spat at the King of Hybern. Her father had squandered those final words on that worm of a king. Her father. The man who had never fought for his children, not until the end. When he had come to save them--to save the humans and the Fae, yes, but most of all, his daughters. Her. A grand, stupid waste. Unholy dark power flowed through her, and it had not been enough to stop the King of Hybern from snapping his neck. She had hated her father, hated him deeply, and yet he had loved her, for some inexplicable reason. Not enough to try to spare them from poverty or keep them from starving. But somehow it had been enough for him to raise an army on the continent. To sail a ship named for her into battle. She had still hated her father in those last moments. And then his neck had cracked, his eyes not full of fear as he died, but of that foolish love for her. That was what had lingered--the look in his eyes. The resentment in her heart as he died for her. It had festered, gnawing at her like the power she buried deep, running rampant through her head until no icy baths could numb it away. She could have saved him. It was the King of Hybern's fault. She knew that. But it was hers, too. Just as it was her fault that Elain had been captured by the Cauldron after Nesta spied on it with that scrying, her fault that Hybern had done such terrible things to hunt her and her sister down like a deer. Some days, the sheer dread and panic locked Nesta's body up so thoroughly that nothing could get her to breathe. Nothing could stop the awful power from beginning to rise, rise, rise in her. Nothing beyond the music at those taverns, the card games with strangers, the endless bottles of wine, and the sex that made her feel nothing--but offered a moment of release amid the roaring inside her. Nesta finished washing away the sweat and other remnants of last night. The sex hadn't been bad--she'd had better, but also much worse. Even immortality wasn't enough time for some males to master the art of the bedroom. So she'd taught herself what she liked. She'd obtained a monthly contraceptive tea from her local apothecary, and then she'd brought that first male here. He had no idea that her maidenhead had been intact until he'd spied the smeared blood on the sheets. His face had tightened with distaste-- then a glimmer of fear that she might report an unsatisfactory first bedding to her sister. To her sister's insufferable mate. Nesta hadn't bothered to tell him that she avoided both of them at all costs. Especially the latter. These days, Rhysand seemed content to do the same. After the war with Hybern, Rhysand had offered her jobs. Positions in his court. She didn't want them. They were pity offerings, thin attempts to get her to be a part of Feyre's life, to be gainfully employed. But the High Lord had never liked her. Their conversations were coldly civil at best. She'd never told him that the reasons he hated her were the same reasons she lived here. Took cold baths some days. Forgot to eat on others. Couldn't stand the crack and snap of a fireplace. And drowned herself in wine and music and pleasure each night. Every damning thing Rhysand thought about her was true--and she'd known it long before he had ever shadowed her doorstep. Any offering Rhysand threw her way was made solely out of love for Feyre. Better to spend her time the way she wished. They kept paying for it, after all. The knock on the door rattled the entire apartment. She glared toward the front room, debating whether to pretend she'd left, but Cassian could hear her, smell her. And if he broke down the door, which he was likely to do, she'd just have the headache of explaining it to her stingy landlord. So Nesta donned the dress she'd left on the floor last night, and then again freed all four locks. She'd installed them the first day she'd arrived. Locking them each night was practically a ritual. Even when the nameless male had been here, even out of her mind on wine, she'd remembered to lock them all. As if that would keep the monsters of this world at bay. Nesta tugged open the door enough to see Cassian's cocky grin, and left it ajar as she stormed away to search for her shoes. He strode in after her, a mug of tea in his hand--the cup probably borrowed from the shop at the corner. Or outright given to him, considering how people tended to worship the ground his muddy boots walked on. He'd already been adored in this city before the Hybern conflict. His heroism and sacrifice--the feats he'd performed on the battlefields--had won him even more awe after its end. She didn't blame his admirers. She'd experienced the pleasure and sheer terror of watching him on those battlefields. Still woke with sweat coating her at the memories: how she couldn't breathe while she'd witnessed him fight, enemies swarming him; how it had felt when the Cauldron's power had surged and she'd known it was going to strike where their army was strongest--him. She hadn't been able to save the one thousand Illyrians who had fallen in the moment after she'd summoned him to safety. She turned away from that memory, too. Cassian surveyed her apartment and let out a low whistle. "Ever thought of hiring a cleaner?" Nesta scanned the small living area--a sagging crimson couch, a soot- stained brick hearth, a moth-eaten floral armchair, then the ancient kitchenette, piled with leaning columns of dirty dishes. Where had she thrown her shoes last night? She shifted her search to her bedroom. "Some fresh air would be a good start," Cassian added from the other room. The window groaned as he cracked it open. She found her brown shoes in opposite corners of the bedroom. One reeked of spilled wine. Nesta perched on the edge of the mattress to slide them on, tugging at the laces. She didn't bother to look up as Cassian's steady steps approached, then halted at the threshold. He sniffed once. Loudly. "I'd hoped you at least changed the sheets between visitors, but apparently that doesn't bother you." Nesta tied the laces on the first shoe. "What business is it of yours?" He shrugged, though the tightness on his face didn't reflect such nonchalance. "If I can smell a few different males in here, then surely your companions can, too." "Hasn't stopped them yet." She tied the other shoe, Cassian's hazel eyes tracking the movement. "Your tea is getting cold." His teeth flashed. Nesta ignored him and searched the bedroom again. Her coat ... "Your coat is on the ground by the front door," he said. "And it's going to be brisk out, so bring a scarf." She ignored that, too, but breezed by him, careful to avoid touching him, and found her dark blue overcoat exactly where he'd claimed it was. She opened the front door, pointing for him to leave first. Cassian held her gaze as he stalked for her, then reached out an arm-- And plucked the cerulean-and-cream scarf Elain had given her for her birthday this spring off the hook on the wall. He gripped it in his fist, dangling it like a strangled snake as he brushed past her. Something was eating at him. Usually, Cassian held out a bit longer before yielding to his temper. Perhaps it had to do with whatever Feyre wanted to say up at the house. Nesta's gut twisted as she set each lock. She wasn't stupid. She knew there had been unrest since the war had ended, both in these lands and on the continent. Knew that without the barrier of the wall, some Fae territories were pushing the limits on what they could get away with in terms of border claims and how they treated humans. And she knew that those four human queens still squatted in their shared palace, their armies unused and intact. They were monsters, all of them. They'd killed the golden-haired queen who'd betrayed them and sold another--Vassa--to a sorcerer-lord. It seemed only fitting that the youngest of the four remaining queens had been transformed into a crone by the Cauldron. Made into a long-lived Fae, yes, but aged into a withered shell as punishment for the power Nesta had taken from the Cauldron. How she'd ripped it apart while it had torn her mortal body into something new. That wizened queen blamed her. Had wanted to kill her, if Hybern's Ravens had been correct before Bryaxis and Rhysand had destroyed them for infiltrating the House of Wind's library. There had been no whisper of that queen in the fourteen months since the war. But if some new threat had arisen ... The four locks seemed to laugh at her before Nesta followed Cassian out of the building and into the bustling city beyond. e: The riverfront "house" was actually an estate, and so new and clean and beautiful that Nesta remembered her shoes were covered in stale wine precisely as she strode through the towering marble archway and into the shining front hall, tastefully decorated in shades of ivory and sand. A mighty staircase bisected the enormous space, a chandelier of handblown glass--made by Velaris artisans--drooping from the carved ceiling above it. The faelights in each nest-shaped orb cast shimmering reflections on the polished pale wood floors, interrupted only by potted ferns, wood furniture also made in Velaris, and an outrageous array of art. She didn't bother to remark on any of it. Plush blue rugs broke up the pristine floors, a long runner flowing along the cavernous halls on either side, and one ran beneath the arch of the stairs, straight to a wall of windows on its other side, which looked out onto the sloping lawn and gleaming river at its feet. Cassian headed to the left--toward the formal rooms for business, Feyre had informed Nesta during that first and only tour two months ago. Nesta had been half-drunk at the time, and had hated every second of it, each perfect room. Most males bought their wives and mates jewelry for an outrageous Winter Solstice present. Rhys had bought Feyre a palace. No--he'd purchased the war-decimated land, and then given his mate free rein to design the residence of their dreams. And somehow, Nesta thought as she silently followed an unnaturally quiet Cassian down the hall toward one of the studies whose doors were cracked open, Feyre and Rhys had managed to make this place seem cozy, welcoming. A behemoth of a building, but still a home. Even the formal furniture seemed designed for comfort and lounging, for long conversations over hearty food. Every piece of art had been picked by Feyre herself, or painted by her, many of them portraits and depictions of them--her friends, her ... new family. There were none of Nesta, naturally. Even their gods-damned father had a portrait on the wall along one side of the grand staircase: him and Elain, smiling and happy, as they'd been before the world went to shit. Sitting on a stone bench amid bushes bursting with pink and blue hydrangea. The formal gardens of their first home, that lovely manor near the sea. Nesta and their mother were nowhere in sight. That was how it had been, after all: Elain and Feyre doted on by their father. Nesta prized and trained by their mother. During that first tour, Nesta had noted the lack of herself here. The lack of their mother. She said nothing, of course, but it was a pointed absence. It was enough to now set her teeth on edge, to make her grab the invisible, internal leash that kept the horrible power within her at bay and pull tight, as Cassian slipped into the study and said to whoever awaited them, "She's here." Nesta braced herself, but Feyre merely chuckled. "You're five minutes early. I'm impressed." "Seems like a good omen for gambling. We should head to Rita's," Cassian drawled just as Nesta stepped into the wood-paneled room. The study opened into a lush garden courtyard. The space was warm and rich, and she might have admitted she liked the floor-to-ceiling bookshelves, the sapphire velvet furniture before the black marble hearth, had she not seen who was sitting inside. Feyre perched on the rolled arm of the couch, clad in a heavy white sweater and dark leggings. Rhys, in his usual black, leaned against the mantel, arms crossed. No wings today. And Amren, in her preferred gray, sat cross-legged in the leather armchair by the roaring hearth, those muted silver eyes sweeping over Nesta with distaste. So much had changed between her and the female. Nesta had seen to that--the destruction. She didn't let herself think about that argument at the end-of-summer party on the river barge. Or the silence between herself and Amren since then. No more visits to Amren's apartment. No more chats over jigsaw puzzles. Certainly no more lessons in magic. She'd made sure of that last part, too. Feyre, at least, smiled at her. "I heard you had quite the night." Nesta glanced between where Cassian had claimed the armchair across from Amren, the empty spot on the couch beside Feyre, and where Rhys stood by the hearth. She kept her spine straight, her chin high, hating that they all eyed her as she opted to sit on the couch beside her sister. Hating that Rhys and Amren noted her filthy shoes, and probably still smelled that male on her despite the bath. "You look atrocious," Amren said. Nesta wasn't stupid enough to glare at the ... whatever Amren was. She was High Fae now, yes, but she'd once been something different. Not of this world. Her tongue was still sharp enough to wound. Like Nesta, Amren did not possess court-specific magic related to the High Fae. It didn't make her influence in this court any less mighty. Nesta's own High Fae powers had never materialized--she had only what she'd taken from the Cauldron, rather than letting it deign to gift her with power, as it had with Elain. She had no idea what she'd ripped from the Cauldron while it had stolen her humanity from her--but she knew they were things she did not and would never wish to understand, to master. The very thought had her stomach churning. "Though I bet it's hard to look good," Amren went on, "when you're out until the darkest hours of the night, drinking yourself stupid and fucking anything that comes your way." Feyre whipped her head to the High Lord's Second. Rhys seemed inclined to agree with Amren. Cassian kept his mouth shut. Nesta said smoothly, "I wasn't aware that my activities were under your jurisdiction." Cassian loosed a murmur that sounded like a warning. To which one of them, she didn't know. Or care. Amren's eyes glowed, a remnant of the power that had once burned inside her. All that was left now. Nesta knew her own power could shine like that, too--but while Amren's had revealed itself to be light and heat, Nesta knew that her silver flame came from a colder, darker place. A place that was old--and yet wholly new. Amren challenged, "They are when you spend that much of our gold on wine." Perhaps she had pushed them too far with last night's tab. Nesta looked to Feyre, who winced. "So you really did make me come all the way here for a scolding?" Feyre's eyes--mirror images of her own--softened slightly. "No, it's not a scolding." She cut a sharp glance at Rhys, still icily silent against the mantel, and then to Amren, seething in her chair. "Think of this as a discussion." Nesta shot to her feet. "My life is not your concern, or up for any sort of discussion." "Sit down," Rhys snarled. The raw command in that voice, the utter dominance and power ... Nesta froze, fighting it, hating that Fae part of her that bowed to such things. Cassian leaned forward in his chair, as if he'd leap between them. She could have sworn something like pain had etched itself across his face. But Nesta held Rhysand's gaze. Threw every ounce of defiance she could into it, even as his order made her knees want to bend, to sit. Rhys said, "You are going to stay. You are going to listen." She let out a low laugh. "You're not my High Lord. You don't give me orders." But she knew how powerful he was. Had seen it, felt it. Still trembled to be near him. Rhys scented that fear. One side of his mouth curled up in a cruel smile. "You want to go head-to-head, Nesta Archeron?" he purred. The High Lord of the Night Court gestured to the sloping lawn beyond the windows. "We've got plenty of space out there for a brawl." Nesta bared her teeth, silently roaring at her body to obey her orders. She'd sooner die than bow to him. To any of them. Rhys's smile grew, well aware of that fact. "That's enough," Feyre snapped at Rhys. "I told you to keep out of it." He dragged his star-flecked eyes to his mate, and it was all Nesta could do to keep from collapsing onto the couch as her knees gave out at last. Feyre angled her head, nostrils flaring, and said to Rhysand, "You can either leave, or you can stay and keep your mouth shut." Rhys again crossed his arms, but said nothing. "You too," Feyre spat to Amren. The female harrumphed and nestled into her chair. Nesta didn't bother to look pleasant as Feyre twisted to face her, taking a proper seat on the couch, the velvet cushions sighing beneath her. Her sister swallowed. "We need to make some changes, Nesta," Feyre said hoarsely. "You do--and we do." Where the hell was Elain? "I'll take the blame," Feyre went on, "for allowing things to get this far, and this bad. After the war with Hybern, with everything else that was going on, it... You ... I should have been there to help you, but I wasn't, and I am ready to admit that this is partially my fault." "That what is your fault?" Nesta hissed. "You," Cassian said. "This bullshit behavior." He'd said that at the Winter Solstice. And just as it had then, her spine locked at the insult, the arrogance-- "Look," Cassian went on, holding up his hands, "it's not some moral failing, but--" "I understand how you're feeling," Feyre cut in. "You know nothing about how I'm feeling." Feyre plowed ahead. "It's time for some changes. Starting now." "Keep your self-righteous do-gooder nonsense out of my life." "You don't have a life," Feyre retorted. "And I'm not going to sit by for another moment and watch you destroy yourself." She put a tattooed hand on her heart, like it meant something. "I decided after the war to give you time, but it seems that was wrong. I was wrong." "Oh?" The word was a dagger thrown between them. Rhys tensed at the sneer, but still said nothing. "You're done," Feyre breathed, voice shaking. "This behavior, that apartment, all of it--you are done, Nesta." "And where," Nesta said, her tone mercifully icy, "am I supposed to go?" Feyre looked to Cassian. For once, Cassian wasn't grinning. "You're coming with me," he said. "To train." <|title|>Chapter 2 <|startofchapter|>Cassian felt as if he'd loosed an arrow at a sleeping firedrake. Nesta, bundled in that worn blue coat, with her stained shoes and her wrinkled gray dress, looked him over and demanded, "What? " "As of this meeting," Feyre clarified, "you're moving into the House of Wind." She nodded eastward, toward the palace carved into the mountains at the far end of the city. "Rhys and I have decided that each morning, you will train with Cassian in Windhaven, in the Illyrian Mountains. After lunch, for the rest of the afternoon, you will be assigned work in the library beneath the House of Wind. But the apartment, the seedy taverns--all of that is over, Nesta." Nesta's fingers curled into fists in her lap. But she said nothing. He should have positioned himself beside her, instead of allowing his High Lady to sit on that couch within arm's reach of her. No matter that Feyre already had a shield around herself courtesy of Rhys--it had been there at breakfast, too. Part of my ongoing training, Feyre had muttered when Cassian asked about the ironclad defenses, so strong they even masked her scent. Rhys is having Helion teach him about truly impenetrable shields, so of course I have the pleasure of being the test subject. I'm supposed to try to break this one to see if Rhys is following Helion's instructions correctly. It's a new kind of insanity. But one that had proved fortuitous. Even if they didn't know what Nesta's power could do against ordinary magic. Rhys seemed to be thinking the same thing, and Cassian poised himself to jump between the two sisters. His Siphons flared in warning as Rhys's power rumbled. Cassian had no doubt Feyre could defend herself against most opponents, but Nesta ... He wasn't entirely sure Feyre would hit back, even if Nesta launched that terrible power at her. And he hated that he didn't know if Nesta would sink low enough to do it. That things had become so bad that he even considered the possibility. "I'm not moving to the House of Wind," Nesta said. "And I'm not training at that miserable village. Certainly not with him." She threw him a look that was nothing short of venomous. "It's not up for negotiation," Amren said, breaking her vow to keep out of the discussion as much as possible for the second time in so many minutes. The eldest of the Archeron sisters had a talent for getting under everyone's skin. Yet Nesta and Amren had always shared a bond--an understanding. Until their fight on the barge. "Like hell it isn't," Nesta challenged, but didn't attempt to stand as Rhys's eyes flickered with cold warning. "Your apartment is being packed as we speak," Amren said, picking at a speck of lint on her silk blouse. "By the time you return, it will be empty. Your clothes are already being sent to the House, though I doubt they will be suitable for training at Windhaven." A pointed glance at Nesta's gray dress, baggier on her than it had once been. Did Nesta notice the faint glimmer of worry in Amren's smoky eyes--understand how rare it was? More than that, did Nesta understand that this meeting wasn't to condemn her, but instead came from a place of concern? Her simmering stare told him she considered this purely an attack. "You can't do this," Nesta said. "I'm not a member of this court." "You seem to have no qualms about spending this court's money," Amren countered. "During the war with Hybern, you accepted the position as our human emissary. You never resigned from the role, so formal law still considers you an official member of this court." A wave of her small fingers and a book floated toward Nesta before thumping onto the cushions beside her. That was about the extent of the magic Amren now possessed-- ordinary, unremarkable High Fae magic. "Page two hundred thirty-six, if you want to check." Amren had combed through their laws for this? Cassian didn't even know such a rule existed--he'd accepted the position Rhys had offered him without question, not caring what he was agreeing to, only that he and Rhys and Azriel would be together. That they'd have a home that no one could ever take from them. Until Amarantha. He'd never stop being grateful for it: for the High Lady mere feet from him, who had saved them all from Amarantha's rule, who had returned his brother to him and then brought Rhys out of the darkness that lingered. "So here are your options, girl," Amren said, delicate chin rising. Cassian didn't miss the look between Feyre and Rhys: the utter agony in his High Lady's face at the ultimatum he knew was to be presented to Nesta, and the half-restrained rage in Rhys's that his mate was in such pain because of it. He'd already seen that exchanged look once today--had hoped he wouldn't see it again. Cassian had been eating an early breakfast with them this morning when Rhys had gotten the bill for Nesta's night out. When Rhys had read each item aloud. Bottles of rare wine, exotic foods, gambling debts ... Feyre had stared at her plate until silent tears dripped into her scrambled eggs. Cassian knew there'd been previous conversations--fights--about Nesta. About whether to give her time to heal herself, as they'd all believed would happen at first, or to step in. But as Feyre wept at the table, he knew it was a breaking of some sort. An acceptance of a hope failed. It had required all of Cassian's training, every horror he'd endured on and off the battlefield, to keep that same crushing sorrow from his own face. Rhys had laid a comforting hand on Feyre's, squeezing gently before he looked at Azriel, and then Cassian, and laid out his plan. As if he'd had it waiting a long, long while. Elain had walked in halfway through. She'd been toiling in the estate gardens since dawn, and had been solemn as Rhys filled her in. Feyre had been unable to say a word. But Elain's gaze remained steady as she listened to Rhys. Then Rhys summoned Amren from her attic apartment across the river. Feyre had insisted that the order come through Amren, not Rhys, to preserve any sort of familial bond between Rhys and her sister. Cassian didn't think there was one to begin with, but Rhys had agreed, moving to kneel at Feyre's side, wiping away the remnants of her tears, kissing her temple. They'd all left the table then, giving their High Lord and Lady privacy. Cassian took to the skies moments later, letting the roaring wind drown out every thought in his head, letting its briskness cool his pounding heart. This meeting, what was to come--none of it would be easy. Amren, they'd agreed, had always been one of the few people who could get through to Nesta. Whom Nesta seemed to fear, if only slightly. Who understood, somehow, what Nesta was, deep down. She'd been the only one Nesta had truly spoken to after the war. It didn't seem like a coincidence that in the past month, since they'd argued on that boat, Nesta's behavior had deteriorated further. That she now looked like ... this. "One," Amren said, raising a slender finger, "you can move up to the House of Wind, train with Cassian in the mornings, and work in the library in the afternoons. You will not be a prisoner. But there will be no one to fly or winnow you down to the city. If you want to venture into the city proper, by all means, go ahead. That is, if you can brave the ten thousand steps down from the House." Amren's eyes glittered with the challenge. "And if you can somehow find two coppers to rub together to buy yourself a drink. But if you follow this plan, we will reevaluate where and how you live in a few months." "And my other option?" Nesta spat. Mother above, this woman--female. She was no longer human. Cassian could think of very, very few people who would defy Amren and Rhys. Certainly not in the same room. Certainly not with such venom. "You go back to the human lands." Amren had suggested a few days in a dungeon in the Hewn City, but Feyre had simply said that the human world would be more than enough of a prison for someone like Nesta. Someone like Feyre, too. And Elain. All three sisters were now High Fae with considerable powers, though only Feyre's were let loose. Even Amren had no idea whether Elain's and Nesta's powers remained. The Cauldron had granted them unique powers, different from other High Fae: the gift of sight to the former, and the gift of ... Cassian didn't know what to call Nesta's gift. Didn't know whether it was a gift at all--or something she had taken. The silver fire, that sense of death looming, the raw power he'd witnessed as it blasted into the King of Hybern. Whatever it was, it existed beyond the usual array of High Fae gifts. The human world was behind them. They could never return. Even though all three of them were war heroes, each in their own right, the humans wouldn't care. Would stay far, far away, if they weren't provoked to violence. So, yes: Nesta might technically be able to return to the human lands, but she would find no companionship there, no warm welcome or town that would accept her. Wherever she was able to find a place to live, she would be essentially housebound, confined to the grounds of her home for fear of human prejudices. Nesta turned to Feyre, lips pulling back from her teeth. "And these are my only options?" "J" Feyre caught herself before she could say the rest--I'm sorry-- and squared her shoulders. Became the High Lady of the Night Court, even without her black crown, even in Rhys's old sweater. "Yes." "You have no right." Nesta erupted. "You dragged me into this mess, this horrible place. You are why I am like this, why I am stuck here--" Feyre flinched. Rhys's rage became palpable, a pulse of night-kissed power that tightened Cassian's gut, every wartrior's instinct beaten into him coming to attention. "That's enough," Feyre breathed. Nesta blinked. Feyre swallowed, but didn't balk. "That is enough. You're moving up to the House, you're going to train and work, and I don't care what vitriol you spew my way. You're doing it." "Elain needs to be able to see me--" "Elain agreed to this hours ago. She's currently packing your things. They'll be waiting for you when you arrive." Nesta recoiled. Feyre didn't relent. "Elain knows how to contact you. If she wishes to visit you at the House of Wind, she is free to do so. One of us will gladly take her up there." The words hung between them, so heavy and awkward that Cassian said, "I promise not to bite." Nesta's upper lip curled back as she faced him. "I suppose this was your idea--" "It was," he lied with a grin. "We're going to have a wonderful time together." They'd likely kill each other. "I want to speak to my sister. Alone," Nesta ordered. Cassian glanced at Rhys, who leveled an assessing stare at Nesta. Cassian had been on the receiving end of that same stare a few times over the centuries and did not envy Nesta one bit. But the High Lord of the Night Court nodded. "We'll be in the hall." Cassian's fist tightened at the implied insult that they didn't trust her enough to go farther than that, despite the shield on Feyre. Even if the rational, warrior-minded part of him agreed. Nesta's eyes flared, and he knew she'd understood it, too. From the way Feyre's jaw tightened, he suspected she wasn't pleased at the subtle jab--it wouldn't help convince Nesta that they were doing this to help her. Rhys would be getting the verbal beating he deserved later. Cassian waited until Rhys and Amren rose before following them out. True to his word, Rhys walked three steps down the hall, away from the wood doors spelled against eavesdroppers, and leaned against the wall. Doing the same, Cassian said to Amren, "I didn't even know we had laws like that about court membership." "We don't." Amren picked at her red-painted nails. He swore under his breath. Rhys smiled wryly. But Cassian frowned toward the shut double doors and prayed Nesta didn't do anything stupid. Nesta held her spine ramrod straight, back aching with the effort. She had never hated anyone so much as she hated all of them now. Save for the King of Hybern, she supposed. They'd all been discussing her, deeming her unfit and unchecked, and "You didn't care before," Nesta said. "Why now?" Feyre toyed with her silver-and-star-sapphire wedding ring. "I told you: it wasn't that I didn't care. We--everyone, I mean--had multiple conversations about this. About you. We-- I decided that giving you time and space would be best." "And what did Elain have to say about it?" Part of her didn't want to know. Feyre's mouth tightened. "This isn't about Elain. And last I checked, you barely saw her, either." Nesta hadn't realized they were paying such close attention. She'd never explained to Feyre--had never found the words to explain --why she'd put such distance between them all. Elain had been stolen by the Cauldron and saved by Azriel and Feyre. Yet the terror still gripped Nesta, waking and asleep: the memory of how it had felt in those moments after hearing the Cauldron's seductive call and realizing it had been for Elain, not for her or Feyre. How it had felt to find Elain's tent empty, to see that blue cloak discarded. Things had only gotten worse from there. You have your lives, and I have mine, she'd said to Elain last Winter Solstice. She'd known how deeply it would wound her sister. But she couldn't bear it--the bone-deep horror that lingered. The flashes of that discarded cloak or the Cauldron's chill waters or Cassian crawling toward her or her father's neck snapping-- Feyre said carefully, "For what it's worth, I was hoping you'd turn yourself around. I wanted to give you space to do it, since you seem to lash out at everyone who comes close enough, but you didn't even try." Perhaps you can find it in yourself to try a little harder this year. Cassian's words from nine months ago still rang fresh in Nesta's mind, uttered on an ice-slick street blocks from here. Try? It was all she could think to say. I know that's a foreign word to you. Then her rage had ruptured from her. Why should I have to try to do anything? I was dragged into this world of yours, this court. Then go somewhere else. She'd swallowed her own response: I have nowhere to go. It was the truth. She had no desire to return to the human realm. Had never felt at home there, not really. And this strange, new Fae world ... She might have accepted her different, altered body, that she was now permanently changed and her humanity gone, but she didn't know where she belonged in this world, either. The thought was one she tried to drown in liquor and music and cards, as often as she used those things to quell that writhing power deep inside. Feyre continued, "All you have done is help yourself to our money." "Your mate's money." Another flash of hurt. Nesta's blood sang at the direct blow. "Thank you so much for taking time out of your homemaking and shopping to remember me." "I built a room in this house for you. I asked you to help me decorate it. You told me to piss off." "Why would I ever want to stay in this house?" Where she could see precisely how happy they were, where none of them seemed remotely as decimated as she'd been by the war. She'd come so close to being a part of it --of that circle. Had held their hands as they'd stood together on the morning of the final battle and believed they might all make it. Then she'd learned precisely how mercilessly it might be ripped away. What the cost of hope and joy and love truly was. She never wanted to face it again. Never wanted to endure what she'd felt in that forest clearing, with the King of Hybern chuckling, blood everywhere. Her power hadn't been enough to save them that day. She supposed she'd been punishing it for failing her ever since, keeping it locked up tight inside her. Feyre said, "Because you're my sister." "Yes, and you're always sacrificing for us, your sad little human family "You spent five hundred gold marks last night!" Feyre exploded, shooting to her feet to pace in front of the hearth. "Do you know how much money that is? Do you know how embarrassed I was when we got the bill this morning and my friends--my family--had to hear all about it?" Nesta hated that word. The term Feyre used to describe her court. As if things had been so miserable with the Archeron family that Feyre had needed to find another one. Had chosen her own. Nesta's nails bit into her palms, the pain overriding that of her tightening chest. Feyre went on, "And to hear not just the amount of the bill, but what you spent it on--" "Oh, so it's about you saving face--" "It is about how it reflects upon me, upon Rhys, and upon my court when my damned sister spends our money on wine and gambling and does nothing to contribute to this city! If my sister cannot be controlled, then why should we have the right to rule over anyone else?" "I am not a thing to be controlled by you," Nesta said icily. Everything in her life, from the moment she was born, had been controlled by other people. Things happened to her; anytime she tried to exert control, she'd been thwarted at every turn--and she hated that even more than the King of Hybern. "That's why you're going to train at Windhaven. You will learn to control yourself." "I won't go." "You're going, even if you have to be tied up and hauled there. You will follow Cassian's lessons, and you will do whatever work Clotho requires in the library." Nesta blocked out the memory--of the dark depths of that library, the ancient monster that had dwelled there. It had saved them from Hybern's cronies, yes, but ... She refused to think of it. "You will respect her, and the other priestesses in the library," Feyre said, "and you will never give them a moment's trouble. Any free time is yours to spend as you wish. In the House." Hot rage pumped through her, so loud Nesta could barely hear the real fire before which her sister paced. Was glad of the roaring in her head when the sound of wood cracking as it burned was so much like her father's breaking neck that she couldn't stand to light a fire in her own home. "You had no right to close up my apartment, to take my things--" "What things? A few clothes and some rotten food." Nesta didn't have the chance to wonder how Feyre knew that. Not as her sister said, "I'm having that entire building condemned." "You wouldn't dare." "It's done. Rhys already visited the landlord. It will be torn down and rebuilt as a shelter for families still displaced by the war." Nesta tried to master her uneven breathing. One of the few choices she'd made for herself, stripped away. Feyre didn't seem to care. Feyre had always been her own master. Always got whatever she wished. And now, it seemed, Feyre would be granted this wish, too. Nesta seethed, "I never want to speak to you again." "That's fine. You can talk to Cassian and the priestesses instead." There was no insulting her way out of it. "I won't be your prisoner--" "No. You can go wherever you wish. As Amren said, you are free to leave the House. If you can manage those ten thousand steps." Feyre's eyes blazed. "But I'm done paying for you to destroy yourself." Destroy herself. The silence hummed in Nesta's ears, rippled across her flames, suffocating them, stilling the unbearable wrath. Utter, frozen silence. She'd learned to live with the silence that had started the moment her father had died, the silence that had begun crushing her when she'd gone to his study at their half-wrecked manor days later and found one of his pathetic little wood carvings. She'd wanted to scream and scream, but there had been so many people around. She'd held herself together until the meeting with all those war heroes had ended. Then she'd let herself fall. Straight into this silent pit. "The others are waiting," Feyre said. "Elain should be done by now." "I want to talk to her." "She'll come visit when she's ready." Nesta held her sister's stare. Feyre's eyes gleamed. "You think I don't know why you've pushed even Elain away?" Nesta didn't want to talk about it. About the fact that it had always been her and Elain. And, somehow, now it had become Feyre and Elain instead. Elain had chosen Feyre and these people, and left her behind. Amren had done the same. She'd made it clear on the barge. Nesta didn't care that during the war with Hybem, her own tentative bond had formed with Feyre, forged over common goals: protect Elain, save the human lands. They were excuses, Nesta had realized, to paper over what now boiled and raged in her heart. Nesta didn't bother replying, and Feyre didn't speak again as she departed. There was nothing to bind them together anymore. <|title|>Chapter 3 <|startofchapter|>Cassian watched Rhysand carefully stir his tea. He'd seen Rhys slice up their enemies with the same cold precision that he was now using with that spoon. They sat in the High Lord's study, illuminated by the light of green glass lamps and a heavy iron chandelier. The two-level atrium occupied the northern end of the business wing, as Feyre called it. There was the main floor of the study--bedecked in the hand-knotted blue carpets that Feyre had gone to Cesere to select from its artisans--with its two sitting areas, Rhys's desk, and twin long tables near the bookshelves. At the far end of the room, a little dais led into a broad raised alcove flanked by more books--and in its center, a massive, working model of their world, the stars and planets around it, and some other fancy things that had been explained to Cassian once before he deemed them boring and proceeded to ignore them completely. Az, of course, had been fascinated. Rhys had built the model himself centuries ago. It could not only track the sun, but also tell time, and it somehow allowed Rhys to ponder the existence of life beyond their own world and other things Cassian had, again, instantly forgotten. On the mezzanine, accessible by an ornate wrought-iron spiral staircase just to the left when one walked in, were more books--thousands in this space alone--a few glass cabinets full of delicate objects that Cassian stayed away from (for fear of breaking them with his "bear paws," as Mor described his hands), and several of Feyre's paintings. There were plenty of those on the bottom level, too, some in shadow and meant to stay that way, some revealed by the streaming light reflecting off the river at the foot of the sloping lawn. Cassian's High Lady had a way of capturing the world that always made him pause. Her paintings sometimes unsettled him. The truths she portrayed weren't always pleasant ones. He'd gone to her studio a few times to watch her paint. Surprisingly, she had let him. The first time he'd visited, he'd found Feyre tense at her easel. She was painting what he realized was an emaciated rib cage, so thin he could count most of the bones. When he spotted a familiar birthmark on the too-thin left arm beside it, he eyed the same mark amid the tattoo on her own extended arm, brush in hand. He merely nodded to her, an acknowledgment that he understood. He had never been as thin as Feyre during his own years of poverty, but he understood the hunger in each brushstroke. The desperation. The hollow, empty feeling that felt like those grays and blues and pale, sickly white. The despair of the black pit behind that torso and arm. Death, hovering close like a crow awaiting carrion. He'd thought about that painting a great deal in the days afterward-- how it had made him feel, how close they'd all come to losing their High Lady before they'd ever met her. Rhys finished stirring his tea and set down his spoon with terrible gentleness. Cassian raised his eyes to the portrait behind his High Lord's mammoth desk. The golden faelight orbs in the room were positioned to make it seem alive, glowing. Feyre's face--a self-portrait--seemed to laugh at him. At the mate whose back was to her. So she could watch over him, Rhys said. Cassian prayed that the gods were watching over him as Rhys sipped from his tea and said, "You're ready?" He leaned back in his seat. "I've gotten young warriors in line before." Rhys's violet eyes glowed. "Nesta's not some young buck pushing the boundaries." "I can handle her." Rhys stared at his tea. Cassian recognized that face. That serious, unnervingly calm face. "You did good work getting the Illyrians back in order this spring, you know." He braced himself. He'd been anticipating this talk since he'd spent four months with the Illyrians, soothing the jagged edges amongst the war- bands, making sure the families who'd lost fathers and sons and brothers and husbands were taken care of, that they knew he was there to help and to listen, and generally making it very fucking clear that if they rose up against Rhys, there would be hell to pay. The Blood Rite last spring had taken care of the worst of them, including the troublemaker Kallon, whose arrogance hadn't been enough to compensate for his shoddy training when he'd been slain just miles from the slopes of Ramiel. That Cassian had heaved a sigh of relief at the news of the young male's demise had lingered with him, but the Illyrians had stopped their grumbling soon after. And Cassian had spent the time since then rebuilding their ranks, overseeing the training of promising new warriors and making sure the seasoned ones were still in good enough shape to fight again. Replenishing their depleted numbers had at least given the Illyrians something to focus on--and Cassian knew there was little he could add anymore beyond the occasional inspection and council meeting. So the Illyrians were at peace--or as peaceful as a warrior society could be, with their constant training. Which was what Rhys wanted. Not just because a rebellion would be a disaster, but because of this. What he knew Rhys was about to say. "I think it's time for you to take on bigger responsibilities." Cassian grimaced. There it was. Rhys chuckled. "You can't honestly mean to tell me you didn't know the Illyrian situation was a test?" "I'd hoped not," he grumbled, tucking in his wings. Rhys smirked, though he quickly sobered. "Nesta is not a test, though. She's ... different." "I know." Even before she'd been Made, he'd seen it. And after that terrible day in Hybern ... He'd never forgotten the Bone Carver's whispered words in the Prison. What if I tell you what the rock and darkness and sea beyond whispered to me, Lord of Bloodshed? How they shuddered in fear, on that island across the sea. How they trembled when she emerged. She took something-- something precious. She ripped it out with her teeth. What did you wake that day in Hybern, Prince of Bastards? That final question had chased him from slumber more nights than he cared to admit. Cassian made himself say, "We haven't seen a hint of her power since the war. For all we know, it vanished with the Cauldron's breaking." "Or maybe it's dormant, as the Cauldron is now asleep and safely hidden in Cretea with Drakon and Miryam. Her power could rise at any moment." A chill skittered down Cassian's spine. He trusted the Seraphim prince and the half-human woman to keep the Cauldron concealed, but there would be nothing they or anyone could do to control its power if awoken. Rhys said, "Be on your guard." "You sound like you're afraid of her." "I am." Cassian blinked. Rhys lifted a brow. "Why do you think I sent you to get her this morning?" Cassian shook his head, unable to help his laugh. Rhys smiled, lacing his fingers behind his head and leaning back in his seat. "You need to get out in the practice ring more, brother," Cassian told him, surveying his friend's powerful body. "Don't want that mate of yours to find any soft bits." "She never finds any soft bits when I'm around her," Rhys said, and Cassian laughed again. "Ts Feyre going to kick your ass for what you said earlier?" "I already told the servants to clear out for the rest of the day as soon as you take Nesta up to the House." "I think the servants hear you fighting plenty." Indeed, Feyre had no hesitation when it came to telling Rhys that he'd stepped out of line. Rhys threw him a wicked smile. "It's not the fighting I don't want them hearing." Cassian grinned right back, even as something like jealousy tugged on his gut. He didn't begrudge them their happiness--not at all. There were plenty of times when he'd see the joy on Rhys's face and have to walk away to keep from weeping, because his brother had waited for that love, earned it. Rhys had gone to the mat again and again to fight for that future with Feyre. For this. But sometimes, Cassian saw that mating ring, and the portrait behind the desk, and this house, and just ... wanted. The clock chimed ten thirty, and Cassian rose. "Enjoy your not- fighting." "Cassian." The tone stopped him. Rhys's face was carefully calm. "You didn't ask what bigger responsibilities I have in mind for you." "I assumed Nesta was big enough," he hedged. Rhys gave him a knowing look. "You could be more." "I'm your general. Isn't that enough?" "Ts it enough for you?" Yes, he almost said. But found himself hesitating. "Oh, you're certainly hesitating," Rhys said. Cassian tried to snap up his mental shields, but found they were intact. Rhys was smiling like a cat. "You still reveal everything on that face of yours, brother," Rhys crooned. But his amusement swiftly faded. "Az and I have good reason to believe that the human queens are scheming again. I need you to look into it. Deal with it." "What, we're doing some role reversal? Az gets to lead the Illyrians now?" "Don't play stupid," Rhys said coolly. Cassian rolled his eyes. But they both knew Azriel would sooner disband and destroy Illyria than help it. Convincing their brother that the Illyrians were a people worth saving was still a battle amongst the three of them. Rhys went on, "Azriel is juggling more than he'll admit right now. I'm not dumping another responsibility on him. This task of yours will help him." Rhys flashed a challenging smile. "And let us all see what you're really made of." "You want me to play spy?" "There are other ways to glean information, Cass, besides peeking through keyholes. Az isn't a courtier. He works from the shadows. But I need someone--I'll need you--standing in the open. Mor can fill you in on the details. She'll be back from Vallahan at some point today." "I'm no courtier, either. You know that." The thought made his stomach churn. "Scared?" Cassian let the Siphons atop the backs of his hands shimmer with inner fire. "So I'm to deal with these queens as well as train Nesta?" Rhys leaned back, his silence confirmation. Cassian strode toward the shut double doors, reining in a string of curses. "We're in for a long few months, then." He was almost to the door when Rhys said quietly, "You certainly are." "Did you keep those fighting leathers from the war?" Cassian said to Nesta by way of greeting as he stalked into the entry hall. "You'll need them tomorrow." "I made sure Elain packed them for her," Feyre replied from her perch on the stairs, not looking at her stiff-backed sister standing at their base. He wondered if his High Lady had noticed the disappearing servants yet. The secret smile in Feyre's eyes told him she knew plenty about it. And what was coming for her in a few minutes. Thank the gods he was getting out of here. He'd probably have to fly to the sea itself not to hear Rhys. Or feel his power when he ... Cassian stopped himself before he could finish the thought. He and his brothers had put a good deal of distance between the stupid youths they'd been--fucking any female who showed interest, often in the same room as each other--and the males they were now. He wanted to keep it that way. Nesta just crossed her arms. "Are you winnowing us up to the House?" he asked Feyre. As if in answer, Mor said from behind him, "I am." She winked at Feyre. "She's got a special meeting with Rhysie." Cassian grinned as Mor strode in from the residential wing. "I thought you wouldn't be back until later today." He threw open his arms, folding her against his chest and squeezing tight. Mor's waist-length golden hair smelled of cold seas. She squeezed him back. "I didn't feel like waiting until the afternoon. Vallahan is already knee-deep in snow. I needed some sunshine." Cassian pulled away to scan her beautiful face, as familiar to him as his own. Her brown eyes were shadowed despite her words. "What's wrong?" Feyre rose from her seat, noting the strain as well. "Nothing," Mor said, flipping her hair over a shoulder. "Liar." "I'll tell you all later," Mor conceded, and looked toward Nesta. "You should wear the leathers tomorrow. When you train up at Windhaven, you'll want them against the cold." Nesta leveled a bored, icy look at Mor. Mor just beamed at her in return. Feyre took that as a good moment to casually step between them, Rhys's shield still hard as steel around her. Never mind that they'd all be real damn close in about a minute. "Today we'll let you get settled at the House --you can unpack your things. Get some rest, if you want." Nesta said nothing. Cassian dragged a hand through his hair. Cauldron spare them. Rhys expected him to play politics when he couldn't even navigate this? Mor smirked, as if reading the thought on his face. "Congratulations on your promotion." She shook her head. "Cassian the courtier. I never thought I'd see the day." Feyre snickered. But Nesta's eyes slid to him, surprised and wary. He said to her, if only to beat her to it, "Still a bastard-born nobody, don't worry." Nesta's lips thinned. Feyre said carefully to Nesta, "We'll talk soon." Nesta again didn't reply. It seemed she had stopped speaking to Feyre at all. But at least she was going willingly. Semi-willingly. "Shall we?" Mor said, offering up either elbow. Nesta gazed at the floor, her face pale and gaunt, eyes blazing. Feyre met his stare. The look alone conveyed everything she was begging of him. Nesta stepped past her, grabbed Mor's forearm, and watched a spot on the wall. Mor cringed at him, but Cassian didn't dare share the look. Nesta might not be gazing at them, but he knew she saw and heard and assessed everything. So he merely took Mor's other arm and winked at Feyre before they all vanished into wind and darkness. Mor winnowed them into the sky right above the House of Wind. Before the stomach-dropping plunge could register, Nesta was in Cassian's arms, his wings spread, as he flew toward the stone veranda. It had been a long while since she'd been held by him, since she'd seen the city so small below. He could have flown them both up here, Nesta realized as he alighted and Morrigan vanished from her deadly plummet with a wave. The rules of the House were simple: no one could winnow directly inside thanks to its heavy wards, so it was a choice to either walk up the ten thousand steps, winnow and drop a terrifying distance to the veranda--likely breaking bones --or winnow to the edge of the wards with someone who had wings to fly the rest of the way in. But being in Cassian's arms ... She'd rather have risked breaking every bone in her body from the plunge to the veranda. Thankfully, the flight was over in a matter of seconds. Nesta shoved out of his grip the moment her feet hit the worn stones. Cassian let her, folding his wings and lingering by the rail, all of Velaris glittering below and beyond him. She'd spent weeks here last year--during that terrible period after being turned Fae, begging Elain to demonstrate any sign of wanting to live. She'd barely slept for fear of Elain walking off this veranda, or leaning too far out of one of the countless windows, or simply throwing herself down those ten thousand stairs. Her throat closed at the surge of memories and at the sprawling view-- the glimmering ribbon of the Sidra far below, the red-stoned palace built into the side of the flat-topped mountain itself. Nesta dug her hands into her pockets, wishing she'd opted for the warm gloves Feyre had coaxed her to take. She'd refused. Or silently refused, since she had not uttered a word to her sister after they'd left the study. Partially because she was afraid of what would come out. For a long moment, Nesta and Cassian watched each other. The wind ripped at his shoulder-length dark hair, but he might have been standing in a summer field for all the reaction he yielded to the cold-- so much sharper up here, high above the city. It was all she could do to keep her teeth from clattering their way out of her skull. Cassian finally said, "You'll be staying in your old room." As if she had any sort of claim on this place. On anywhere at all. He went on, "My room's a level above that." "Why would I need to know that?" The words snapped out of her. He began walking toward the glass doors that led into the mountain's interior. "In case you have a bad dream and need someone to read you a story," he drawled, a half smile dancing on his face. "Maybe one of those smutty books you like so much." Her nostrils flared. But she walked through the door he held open for her, nearly sighing at the cozy warmth filling the red stone halls. Her new residence. Sleeping site. It wasn't a home, this place. Just as her apartment hadn't been a home. Neither had her father's fancy new house, before Hybern had half- destroyed it. And neither had the cottage, or the glorious manor before that. Home was a foreign word. But she knew this level of the House of Wind well: the dining room to the left, and the stairway to her right that would take her down two levels to her floor, and the kitchens a level below that. The library far, far beneath it. She wouldn't have cared where she stayed, except for the convenience of the small, private library also on her level. Which had been the place where she'd discovered those smutty books, as Cassian called them. She'd devoured a few dozen of them during those weeks she'd first been here, desperate for any lifeline to keep her from falling apart, from bellowing at what had been done to her body, her life--to Elain. Elain, who would not eat, or speak, or do anything at all. Elain, who had somehow become the adjusted one. In the months leading to and during the war, Nesta had managed. Had stepped into this world, with these people, and started to see it--a future. Until she'd been hunted by the King of Hybern and the Cauldron. Until she'd realized that everyone she cared for would be used to hurt her, break her, trap her. Until that last battle when she couldn't stop one thousand Illyrians from dying, and had instead been able to save only one. Him. She would do it again, if forced to. And knowing that ... She couldn't bear that truth, either. Cassian aimed for the downward stairs, his every movement brimming with unfaltering arrogance. "I don't need an escort to my room." No matter that his rooms were that way, too. "I know how to get there." He threw a smirk over a muscled shoulder and strode down the stairs anyway. "I just want to make sure you arrive in one piece before I settle in." He nodded to the landing they passed, the open archway that led into the hall with his bedroom. She knew it only because she'd had little more to do during those initial weeks as High Fae than wander this palace like a ghost. Cassian added, "Az is in the room two doors down from mine." They reached the level of her bedroom and he swaggered along the hall. "You probably won't see him, though." "He's here to spy on me?" Her words bounced off the red stone. Cassian said tightly, "He says he'd rather stay up here than at the river house." That made two of them. "Why?" "I don't know. He's Az. He likes his space." He shrugged, the faelight filtering through the golden sconces gilding the taloned apex of his wings. "He'll keep to himself, so most of the time it'll be only you and me." She didn't dare reply. Not to all that statement implied. Alone--with Cassian. Here. Cassian stopped in front of a familiar, arched wood door. He leaned against the jamb, hazel eyes monitoring her every step. She knew the House belonged to Rhys. Knew Cassian's entire existence was paid for by Rhys, just as the High Lord bankrolled all of his Inner Circle. Knew that the fastest and deepest way to annoy Cassian, hurt him right now would be to strike for that, to make him doubt the work he did and whether he deserved to be here. The instinct crept up, a rising wave, each word selected to slice and wound. She'd always had the gift, if it could be called that. Yet it wasn't a curse, not entirely. It had served her well. He scanned her face as she stopped in front of the bedroom door. "Let's hear it, Nes." "Don't call me that." She dangled the words like bait. Let him think her vulnerable. But he pushed off the door, wings tucking in. "You need a hot meal." "I don't want one." "Why?" "Because I'm not hungry." It was true. Her appetite had been the first thing to go after that battle. Only instinct and the occasional social requirement to appear like she gave a shit about anything kept her eating. "You won't last through an hour of training tomorrow without food in your belly." "I'm not training at that horrible place." She'd hated Windhaven from the first time she'd seen it, cold and bleak and full of humorless, harsh-faced people. The Siphon strapped atop Cassian's left hand gleamed, a red band of light twining from the stone to wrap around the door handle. It yanked the iron downward, the door swinging open with a creak, then vanished like smoke. "You were given an order, as well as the alternative to following it. You want to go back to the human lands, be my guest." Then go somewhere else. He'd likely have that preening Morrigan dump her over the border like so much baggage. And Nesta would have called the bluff, except ... she knew what she'd face down south. The war had done little to warm human sentiments toward the Fae. She had nowhere to go. Elain, mourn as she might for the life she would have had with Graysen, had found a place, a role here. Tending to the gardens of Feyre's veritable palace on the river, helping other residents of Velaris restore their own destroyed gardens--she had purpose, and joy, and friends: those two half-wraiths who worked in Rhysand's household. But those things had always come easily to her sister. Had always made Elain special. Had made Nesta fight like hell to keep Elain safe at all costs. The Cauldron had learned that. The King of Hybern had learned it, too. An old, heavy weight tugged her down, oblivion beckoning. "I'm tired." Her words came out mercifully flat. "Take the day to rest, then," Cassian said, his voice a shade quiet. "Mor or Rhys will winnow us up to Windhaven after breakfast tomorrow." She said nothing. He went on, "We'll start easy: two hours of training, then lunch, then you'll be brought back here to meet with Clotho." She didn't have the energy to ask further about the training, or the work in the library with its high priestess. She didn't really care. Let Rhysand and Feyre and Amren and Cassian make her do this bullshit. Let them think it could somehow make a lick of difference. Nesta didn't bother to reply before she strode through the archway and into her bedroom. But she felt his stare on her, assessing every step over the threshold, the way her hand gripped the side of the door, the way she flexed her fingers before she slammed it shut. Nesta waited mere feet inside the bedroom, blinking at the glaring light through the wall of windows at its other end. A scuff of boots on stone informed her that he'd left. It wasn't until the sound faded completely that she took in the room before her, unchanged since she'd last been in it, the connecting door to Elain's old suite now sealed shut. The wide space easily accommodated a mammoth four-poster bed against the wall to her left, as well as a small sitting area to her right, complete with a sofa and two chairs. A carved marble fireplace occupied the wall before the sitting area, mercifully dark, and multiple rugs lay scattered throughout, offering reprieve from the chilly stone floors. But that wasn't what she'd liked about this room. No, it was what she now faced: the wall of windows that overlooked the city, the river, the flatlands and distant sparkle of sea beyond. All that land, all those people, so far away. As if this palace floated in the clouds. There had been some days up here when the mist had been thick enough to block the view below, swirling so close to the window that she'd been able to trail her fingers through it. No tendrils of mist drifted by now, though. The windows revealed nothing but a clear early-autumn day, the sunlight near-blinding. Seconds ticked by. Minutes. A familiar roaring built in her ears. That heavy hollowness tugged her down, as surely as some faerie creature wrapping its bony hands around her ankle and yanking her beneath a dark surface. As surely as she had been shoved under that eternal, icy water in the Cauldron. Nesta's body became distant, foreign, as she shut the heavy gray velvet curtains against the light. Shrouding the room in darkness bit by bit. She ignored the three bags and two trunks set beside the dresser as she approached the bed. She barely managed to toe off her shoes before she slid beneath the layers of white down blankets and quilts, closed her eyes, and breathed. And breathed. And breathed. <|title|>Chapter 4 <|startofchapter|>Mor had already commandeered a table at the riverfront cafe, an arm slung across the back of a wrought-iron chair, the other elegantly draped over her crossed knees. Cassian halted a few feet from the maze of tables along the walkway, smiling to himself at the sight of her: head tipped toward the sun, unbound hair gleaming and rippling around her like liquid gold, her full lips curled upward, basking in the light. She never stopped appreciating the sunshine. Even five hundred years after leaving that veritable prison she'd called home and the monsters who claimed her as kin, his friend--his sister, honestly--still savored every moment in the sun. As if the first seventeen years of her life, spent in the darkness of the Hewn City, still lurked around her like Az's shadows. Cassian cleared his throat as he approached the table, offering pleasant smiles to the other patrons and people along the walkway who either gawked or waved at him, and by the time he sat, Mor was already smirking, her brown eyes lit with amusement. "Don't start," he warned, settling his wings around the chair's back and motioning to the owner of the cafe, who knew him well enough to understand that meant he wanted water--no tea or sweets, both of which Mor had before her. Mor grinned, so beautiful it took his breath away. "Can't I enjoy the sight of my friend being fawned over by the public?" He rolled his eyes, and murmured his thanks to the owner as a pitcher of water and a glass appeared before him. Mor said when the owner had gone to tend to other tables, "I seem to remember a time when you enjoyed that sort of thing, too." "I was a young, arrogant idiot." He cringed to recall how he'd strutted around after successful battles or missions, believing he deserved the praise of strangers. For too damn long, he'd indulged in that bullshit. It had taken walking these same streets after Rhys had been imprisoned by Amarantha-- after Rhys sacrificed so much to shield this city, and seeing the disappointment and fear in so many faces--to make Cassian realize what a fool he'd been. Mor cleared her throat, as if sensing the direction of his thoughts. She didn't possess Rhys's skill set, but having survived in the Court of Nightmares, she'd learned to read the subtlest of expressions. A mere blink, she'd once told him, might mean the difference between life and death in that miserable court. "She's settled, then?" Cassian knew who she meant. "Taking a nap." Mor snorted. "Don't." His attention drifting to the glittering Sidra mere feet away. "Please don't." Mor sipped her tea, the portrait of elegant innocence. "We'd be better off throwing Nesta into the Court of Nightmares. She'd thrive there." Cassian clenched his jaw, both at the insult and the truth. "That's exactly the sort of existence we're trying to steer her away from." Mor assessed him with a bob of her thick lashes. "It pains you seeing her like this." "All of it pains me." He and Mor had always had this kind of relationship: truth at all costs, however harsh. Ever since that first and only time they'd slept together, when he'd learned too late that she'd hidden from him the terrible repercussions. When he'd seen her broken body and known that even if she'd lied to him, he'd still played a part. Cassian blew out a breath, shaking away the blood-soaked memory still Staining his mind five centuries later. "It pains me that Nesta has become ... this. It pains me that she and Feyre are always at each other's throats. It pains me that Feyre hurts over it, and I know Nesta does, too. It pains me that ..." He drummed his fingers on the table, then sipped from his water. "I really don't want to talk about it." "All right." The breeze ruffled the gauzy fabric of Mor's twilight-blue dress. He again let himself admire her perfect face. Beyond the disastrous consequences for Mor after their night together, the fallout with Rhys afterward had been awful, and Azriel had been so furious in his own quiet way that Cassian had quelled any further desire for Mor. Had let lust turn into affection, and all romantic feelings turn into familial bonds. But he could still admire her sheer beauty--as he'd admire any work of art. Even though he knew well that what lay inside Mor was far more lovely and perfect than her exterior. He wondered if she knew that. Drinking again, he said, "Tell me what happened in Vallahan." The ancient, mountainous Fae territory across the northern sea had been stirring since before the war with Hybern, and had been both enemy and ally to Prythian in different historical eras. What role Vallahan's hot-tempered king and proud people would play in this new world of theirs was yet to be decided, though much of its fate seemed to depend upon Mor's now-frequent presence at their court as Rhys's emissary. Indeed, Mor's eyes shuttered. "They don't want to sign the new treaty." "Fuck." Rhys, Feyre, and Amren had spent months working on that treaty, with input from their allies in other courts and territories. Helion, High Lord of the Day Court and Rhys's closest ally, had been the most involved. Helion Spell-Cleaver was unrivaled in sheer, swaggering arrogance--he'd probably made up the moniker himself. But the male had one thousand libraries at his disposal, and had put them all to good use for the treaty. "I've spent weeks in that blasted court," Mor said, poking at the flaky pastry beside her teacup, "freezing my ass off, trying to kiss their cold asses, and their king and queen refused the treaty. I came home on the earlier side today because I knew any more last-minute pushing from me would be unwelcome. My time there was supposed to be a friendly visit, after all." "Why won't they sign it?" "Because those stupid human queens are stirring--their army still isn't disbanded. The Queen of Vallahan even asked me what the point of a peace treaty would be when another war, this time against the humans, might redraw the territory lines far below the wall. I don't think Vallahan is interested in peace. Or allying with us." "So Vallahan wants another war in order to add to their territory?" They'd already seized more than their fair share after the War five hundred years ago. "They're bored," Mor said, frowning with distaste. "And the humans, despite those queens, are far weaker than we are. Pushing into human lands is low-hanging fruit. Montesere and Rask are likely thinking the same thing." Cassian groaned skyward. That had been the fear during the recent war: that those three territories across the sea might ally with Hybern. Had they, there would have been no chance at all of survival. Now, even with Hybern's king dead, its people remained angry. An army might be raised again in Hybern. And if it united with Vallahan, if Montesere and Rask joined with the goal of claiming more territory from the humans ... "You already told Rhys this." It wasn't a question, but Mor nodded. "That's why he's asking you to look into what's going on with the human queens. I'm taking a few days off before I head back to Vallahan--but Rhys needs to know where the human queens stand in all of this." "So you're supposed to convince Vallahan not to start another war, and I'm supposed to convince the human queens not to do so, either?" "You won't get near the human queens," Mor said frankly. "But from what I observed in Vallahan, I know they're up to something. Planning something. We just can't figure out what, or why the humans would be stupid enough to start a war they cannot win." "They'd need something in their arsenal that could grant them the advantage." "That's what you have to find out." Cassian tapped his booted foot on the stones of the walkway. "No pressure." Mor drained her tea. "Playing courtier isn't all nice clothes and fancy parties." He scowled. Long moments passed in amiable silence, though Cassian half-heard the wind whispering over the Sidra, the merry chatter of the people around them, the clink of silverware against plates. Content to let him think, Mor returned to her sunning. Cassian straightened. "There's one person who knows those queens inside and out. Who can offer some insight." Mor opened an eye, then slowly sat forward, hair falling around her like a rippling golden river. "Oh?" "Vassa." Cassian hadn't dealt much with the ousted human queen--the only good one out of the surviving group, who had been betrayed by her fellow queens when they'd sold her to a sorcerer-lord who'd cursed her to be a firebird by day, woman by night. She'd been lucky: they'd given the other rebellious queen in their midst to the Attor. Who had then impaled her on a lamppost a few bridges away from where Cassian and Mor now sat. Mor nodded. "She might be able to help." He leaned his arms on the table. "Lucien is living with Vassa. And Jurian. He's supposed to be our emissary to the human lands. Let him deal with it." Mor took another bite from her pastry. "Lucien can't be entirely trusted anymore." Cassian started. "What?" "Even with Elain here, he's become close with Jurian and Vassa. He's voluntarily living with them these days, and not just as an emissary. As their friend." Cassian went over all he'd heard and observed from his encounters with Lucien since the war, trying to contemplate it like Rhys and Mor would. "He's spent months helping them sort out the politics of who rules Prythian's slice of the human lands," Cassian said slowly. "So Lucien can't be unbiased in reporting to us on Vassa." Mor nodded gravely. "Lucien might mean well, but any reports would be skewed--even if he isn't aware of it--in their favor. We need someone outside of their little bubble to collect information and report." She finished off her pastry. "Which would be you." Fine. That made sense. "Why haven't we already contacted Vassa about this?" Mor waved a hand, though her shadowed eyes belied her casual gesture. "Because we're just now piecing it all together. But you should definitely speak with her, when you can. As soon as you can, actually." Cassian nodded. He didn't dislike Vassa, though meeting her would also entail talking with Lucien and Jurian. The former he'd learned to live with, but the latter ... It didn't matter that it turned out that Jurian had been fighting on their side. That the human general who'd been Amarantha's tortured prisoner for five centuries had played Hybern after being rebirthed by the Cauldron, and had helped Cassian and his family win the war. Cassian still didn't like the man. He rose, leaning to ruffle Mor's shining hair. "I miss you these days." She'd been away frequently lately, and each time she returned, a shadow he couldn't place dimmed her eyes. "You know we'd warn you if Keir ever came here." Her asshole of a father still hadn't called in his favor with Rhys: to visit Velaris. "Eris bought me time." Her words were laced with acid. Cassian had tried not to believe it, but he knew Eris had done it as a gesture of good faith. He'd invited Rhysand into his mind to see exactly why he'd convinced Keir to indefinitely delay his visit to Velaris. Only Eris had that sort of sway with the power-hungry Keir, and whatever Eris had offered Keir in exchange for not coming here was still a mystery. At least to Cassian. Rhys probably knew. From Mor's pale face, he wondered if she knew, too. Eris must have sacrificed something big to spare Mor from her father's visit, which would have likely been timed for a moment that would maximize tormenting her. "It doesn't matter to me." Mor waved off the conversation with a flip of her hand. He could tell something else was eating at her. But she'd let him in when she was ready. Cassian walked around the table and pressed a kiss to the top of her head. "Get some rest." He shot skyward before she could answer. Nesta woke to pure darkness. Darkness that she had not witnessed in years now. Since that ramshackle cottage that had become a prison and a hell. Jolting upright, hands clutching at her chest, she gasped for air. Had it been some fever dream on a winter's night? She was still in that cottage, still starving and poor and desperate-- No. The air in the room was toasty, and she was the lone person in the bed, not clinging to her sisters for warmth, always squabbling over who got the coveted middle place in the bed on the coldest nights, or the edges on the hottest summer ones. And though she'd become as bony as she'd been during those long winters ... this body was new, too. Fae. Powerful. Or it had once been. Scrubbing at her face, Nesta slid from the bed. The floors were warmed. Not the icy wooden planks in the cottage. Padding to the window, she drew back the drapes and peered out at the darkened city below. Golden lights shone along the streets, dancing on the twining band of the Sidra. Beyond that, only starlight silvered the lowlands before the cold and empty sea. A scan of the sky revealed nothing regarding how far off dawn might be, and a long moment of listening suggested the household remained asleep. All three of them who occupied it. How long had she slept? They'd arrived by eleven in the morning, and she'd fallen asleep soon after that. She'd consumed absolutely nothing all day. Her stomach grumbled. But she ignored it, leaning her brow against the cool glass of the window. She let the starlight gently brush her head, her face, her neck. Imagined it running its shimmering fingers down her cheek, as her mother had done for her and her alone. My Nesta. Elain shall wed for love and beauty, but you, my cunning little queen ... You shall wed for conquest. Her mother would thrash in her grave to know that, years later, her Nesta had come dangerously close to marrying a weak-willed woodcutter's son who had sat idly by while his father beat his mother. Who had put his hands on her when she called things off between them. Who had then attempted to take what she hadn't offered. Nesta had tried to forget Tomas. She often found herself wishing the Cauldron had ripped those memories away just as it had her humanity, but his face sometimes sullied her dreams. Her waking thoughts. Sometimes, she could still feel his rough hands pawing at her, bruising her. Sometimes, the coppery tang of his blood still coated her tongue. Pulling back from the window, Nesta studied those distant stars again. Half-wondered if they might speak. My Nesta, her mother had always called her, even on her deathbed, so wasted and pale from typhus. My little queen. Nesta had once delighted in the title. Had done her best to fulfill its promise, indulging in a dazzling life that had melted away as soon as the debtors swept in and all her so-called friends had revealed themselves to be nothing more than envious cowards wearing smiling masks. Not one of them had offered to help save the Archeron family from poverty. They had thrown them all, mere children and a crumbling man, to the wolves. So Nesta had become a wolf. Armed herself with invisible teeth and claws, and learned to strike faster, deeper, more lethally. Had relished it. But when the time came to put away the wolf, she'd found it had devoured her, too. The stars flickered above the city, as if blinking their agreement. Nesta curled her hands into fists and climbed back into bed. Cauldron damn him, maybe he shouldn't have agreed to bring her here. Cassian lay awake in his behemoth of a bed--large enough for three Illyrian warriors to sleep side by side, wings and all. Little in the room itself had changed in the past five hundred years. Mor occasionally groused about wanting to redecorate the House of Wind, but he liked this room how it was. He'd awoken at the sound of a door shutting and been instantly alert, heart hammering as he pulled free the knife he kept on the nightstand. Two more were hidden under his mattress, another set above the doorway, and two swords lay beneath the bed and in a dresser drawer, respectively. That was just his collection. The Mother knew what Az had stored in his own room. He supposed that between him, Az, Mor, and Rhys, in the five centuries they'd used the House of Wind, they had filled it with enough weapons to arm a small legion. They'd hidden and stashed and forgotten about so many of them that there was always a good chance of sitting on a couch and being poked in the ass by something. And a good chance that most of the weapons were now little more than rust in their sheaths. But the ones in this bedroom, those he kept oiled and clean. Ready. The knife gleamed in the starlight, his Siphons fluttering with red light as his power scanned the hall beyond the door. But no threat emerged, no enemy breaching the new wards. Hybern's soldiers had broken through more than a year ago, nearly getting their hands on Feyre and Nesta in the library. He hadn't forgotten it--that terror on Nesta's face as she'd raced for him, arms outstretched. But the sound in the hall ... Azriel, he'd realized a heartbeat later. That he'd heard the door at all told him Az wanted him aware of his return. Hadn't wanted to talk, but had wanted Cassian to know that he was around. Which had left Cassian here, staring at the ceiling, his Siphons slumbering once more and knife again sheathed and set on the nightstand. From the stars' position, he knew it was past three--dawn was still far off. He should get some sleep. Tomorrow would be hard enough. As if his silent plea had gone out into the world, a smooth male voice purred into his mind. Why are you up so late? Cassian scanned the sky beyond the wall of windows, as if he'd see Rhys flying there. I have the same question for you. Rhys chuckled. I told you: I had some apologizing to do with my mate. A long, wicked pause. We're taking a break. Cassian laughed. Let the poor female sleep. She was the one who initiated this round. Pure male satisfaction edged every word. You still didn't answer my question. Why are you snooping on me at this hour? I wanted to make sure all was well. It's not my fault you were already up. Cassian let out a soft groan. It's fine. Nesta went to sleep right after we got here and stayed in bed. I'm assuming she's still asleep. You got there before eleven. I know. It's three fifteen in the morning. I know. The silence was pointed enough that Cassian added, Don't butt in. I wouldn't dream of it. Cassian didn't particularly want to have this conversation, not at three in the morning and certainly not twice in one day. I'll check in tomorrow night with an update on the first lesson. Rhys's pause was again too pointed to ignore. But his brother said, Mor will bring you up to Windhaven. Good night, Cass. The dark presence in his mind faded, leaving him hollow and chilled. Tomorrow would be a battlefield unlike any other he'd walked onto. Cassian wondered how much of him would be left intact by the end of it. <|title|>Chapter 5 <|startofchapter|>"If you don't eat that, you're going to regret it in about thirty minutes." Seated at the long table in the House of Wind's dining room, Nesta looked up from the plate of scrambled eggs and steaming bowl of porridge. Sleep still weighed her bones, sharpening her temper as she said, "I'm not eating this." Cassian dug into his own portion--nearly double what lay before her. "It's either that or nothing." Nesta kept perfectly still in her chair, keenly aware of every movement in the fighting leathers she'd donned. She'd forgotten how it felt to wear pants--the nakedness of having her thighs and ass on display. Mercifully, Cassian had been too busy reading some report to see her slink in and slide into her seat. She glanced toward the doorway, hoping a servant might appear. "I'll eat toast." "You'll burn through that in ten minutes and be tired." Cassian nodded toward the porridge. "Put some milk in it if you need to make it more palatable." He added before she could demand it, "There's no sugar." She clenched the spoon. "As punishment?" "Again, it'll give you energy for a short blast, and then make you crash." He shoveled eggs into his mouth. "You need to keep your energy level constant throughout the day--foods full of sugar or flimsy bread give you a temporary high. Lean meats, whole grains, and fruits and vegetables keep you relatively steady and full." She drummed her nails on the smooth table. She'd sat here several times before with the members of Rhysand's court. Today, with only the two of them, it felt obscenely large. "Are there any other areas of my daily life that you're going to be presiding over?" He shrugged, not pausing his eating. "Don't give me a reason to add any more to the list." Arrogant asshole. Cassian nodded toward the food again. "Eat." She shoved the spoon into the bowl but didn't lift it. "Have it your way, then." He finished his porridge and returned to the eggs. "How long will today's session be?" The dawn had revealed clear skies, though she knew the Illyrian Mountains had their own weather. Might already be crusted in the first snows. "As I said yesterday: the lesson is two hours. Right until lunch." He set his bowl on his plate, piling the silverware within. They vanished a heartbeat later, taken by the magic of the House. "Which will be the next time we eat." He glanced pointedly at her food. Nesta leaned back in her chair. "One: I'm not participating in this lesson. Two: I'm not hungry." His hazel eyes guttered. "Not eating won't bring your father back." "That has nothing to do with this," she hissed. "Nothing." He braced his forearms on the table. "We're going to cut the bullshit. You think I haven't gone through what you're dealing with? You think I haven't seen and done and felt all that before? And seen those I love deal with it, too? You aren't the first, and you won't be the last. What happened to your father was terrible, Nesta, but--" She shot to her feet. "You don't know anything." She couldn't stop the shaking that overtook her. From rage or something else, she didn't know. She balled her hands into fists. "Keep your fucking opinions to yourself." He blinked at the profanity, at what she guessed was the white-hot rage crinkling her face. And then he said, "Who taught you to curse?" She squeezed her fists harder. "You lot. You have the filthiest mouths I've ever heard." Cassian's eyes narrowed with amusement, but his mouth remained a thin line. "I'll keep my fucking opinions to myself if you eat." She threw every bit of venom she could muster into her gaze. He only waited. Unmovable as the mountain into which the House had been built. Nesta sat down, grabbed the bowl of porridge, shoved a lumpy spoonful into her mouth, and nearly gagged at the taste. But she forced it down. Then another spoonful. Another. Until the bowl was clean and she started on the eggs. Cassian monitored each bite. And when there was nothing left, she scooped up her plate and bowl and held his stare as she dumped her dishes atop each other, the sound of the rattling silverware filling the room. She again rose, stalking toward him. The doorway beyond him. He stood as well. Nesta could have sworn he wasn't breathing as she passed, close enough that a shift of her elbow would have had it brushing his stomach. She said sweetly, "I look forward to your silence." Unable to help the smirk blooming on her mouth, she aimed for the door. But a hand on her arm stopped her. Cassian's eyes blazed, the red Siphon tethered on the back of the hand that gripped her fluttering with color. A wicked, taunting smile curved his lips. "Glad to see you woke up ready to play, Nesta." His voice dropped to a low rumble. She couldn't help the thundering of her heart at that voice, the challenge in his eyes, the nearness and size of him. Had never been able to help it. Had once let him nuzzle and lick at her throat because of it. Had let him kiss her during the final battle because of it. Barely a kiss --about all he could manage in his injured state--and yet it had shattered her entirely. I have no regrets in my life, but this. That we did not have time. That I did not have time with you, Nesta. I will find you again in the next world-- the next life. And we will have that time. I promise. She relived those moments more often than she cared to admit. The press of his fingers as he'd cupped her face, the way his mouth had felt and tasted, tinged with blood but still tender. She couldn't bear it. Cassian didn't so much as blink, though his grip on her arm gentled. She willed herself not to swallow. Willed her surging blood to chill to ice. His eyes again narrowed with amusement, but he let go. "You have five minutes until we leave." Nesta managed to step away. "You're a brute." He winked. "Born and raised." She managed another step. If she refused to leave the House, Cassian or Morrigan or Rhys could just haul her to Windhaven. And if she flat-out refused to do anything, they'd drop her in the human lands without a second thought. The realization was enough to steel her further. "Don't ever put your hands on me again." "Noted." His eyes still blazed. Her fingers curled once more. She selected her next words like throwing knives. "If you think this training nonsense is going to result in you climbing into my bed, you're delusional." She added with a slice of a smile, "I'd sooner let in a mangy street dog." "Oh, it's not going to result in me climbing into your bed." Nesta snickered, victory achieved, and had reached the stairs when he crooned, "You'll climb into mine." She whirled toward him, foot still suspended midair. "I'd rather rot." Cassian threw her a mocking smile. "We'll see." She fumbled for more of those sharp-edged words, for a sneer or a snarl or anything, but his smile grew. "You have three minutes to get ready now." Nesta debated chucking the nearest thing at him--a vase on a little pedestal beside the doorway. But demonstrating that he'd gotten under her skin would be too satisfying for him. So she merely shrugged and walked through the doorway. Slowly. Utterly unaffected by him and his swaggering, insufferable boasts. Climb into his bed, indeed. Those pants were going to kill him. Brutally, thoroughly kill him. Cassian hadn't forgotten the sight of Nesta in Illyrian fighting leathers during the war--not at all. But compared to the memory ... Mother above. Every word, every language he knew had vanished at the sight of her striding past, straight-backed and unhurried as any noble lady presiding over her household. Cassian knew he'd let her win that round, that he'd lost the upper hand the moment she threw him that little shrug and continued into the hall, unaware of the view it presented. How it made every thought beyond the most primal eddy out of his mind. Settling himself required the entire three minutes she was downstairs. The Mother knew he had enough to deal with today, both with Nesta's lesson and beyond it, without descending into thoughts of peeling those pants off her and worshipping every inch of that spectacular backside. He couldn't afford distractions like that. Not for a million reasons. But fuck--when had he last had a satisfying roll in the sheets? Certainly not since the war. Maybe since before Feyre had freed them all from Amarantha's grip. Cauldron boil him, it had been the month before Amarantha had fallen, hadn't it? With that female he'd met at Rita's. In an alley outside the pleasure hall. Against a brick wall. Quick and dirty and over within minutes, neither he nor the female wanting anything more than swift release. That had been more than two years ago. It had been his hand ever since. He should have scratched that particular itch before deciding that living in the House with Nesta was a good idea. She was hurting and adrift and the last thing she needed was him panting after her. Grabbing her arm like an animal, unable to stop himself from drawing near. She wanted nothing to do with him. She'd said as much at Winter Solstice. I've made my thoughts clear enough on what I want from you. A whole lot of nothing. It had cracked an intrinsic piece of him, some final resistance and shred of hope that everything they'd endured during the war might amount to something. That when he spilled his heart to her as he lay dying, that when she'd covered him with her body and chosen to die alongside him, she'd chosen him, too. A stupid fucking hope, and one he should have known better than to harbor. So that Winter Solstice night on the icy streets, when he knew she'd only shown up at the town house to get the money Feyre had dangled in exchange for making an appearance, when she'd asserted that she wanted nothing to do with him ... he'd thrown the present he'd spent months hunting down into the frozen Sidra and then busied himself with quelling the growing dissent amongst the Illyrians. And he'd stayed away from her for the intervening nine months. Far, far away. He'd come so close to making a stupid mistake that night, to laying his heart bare for her to rip out of his chest. He'd hardly managed to walk away with some semblance of pride. Over his cold, dead body would she do that to him again. Nesta emerged, her braided hair now coiled across the crown of her head like a woven tiara. He made a point not to look beneath her neck. At the body left on display. She needed to gain back the weight she'd lost, and pack on some muscle, but ... those fucking leathers. "Let's go," he said, his voice rough and cold. Thank the Cauldron for that. On the veranda beyond the dining room's glass doors, Mor landed, as if plunging from the thirty feet above the wards was nothing. For her, Cassian supposed it was. Mor hopped from foot to foot, rubbing her arms and gritting her teeth, and gave him a look that said, You owe me so big for this, asshole. Nesta scowled, but slung on her cloak, each movement graceful and unhurried, then aimed for where Mor waited. Cassian would fly them both out beyond the wards' reach, then Mor would winnow them to Windhaven. Where he'd somehow find a way to convince Nesta to train. But thankfully, Nesta knew that she had to do the bare minimum today, which meant going to Windhaven. She'd always known how to wage this kind of emotional, mental warfare. She'd have made a fine general. Might still be one, someday. Cassian couldn't tell if it would be a good thing. To turn Nesta into that sort of a weapon. She'd pointed at the King of Hybern in a death-promise before she'd been turned High Fae against her will. Months later, she'd held up his severed head like a trophy and stared into his dead eyes. And if the Bone Carver had spoken true about her emerging from the Cauldron as something to fear ... Fuck. He didn't bother with his cloak as he yanked open the glass doors, breathing in a face full of crisp autumn air, and stalked toward Mor's opening arms. No ice or snow crusted the mountain hold of Windhaven, but it didn't stop the bitter cold from slamming into Nesta the moment they appeared. Morrigan vanished with a wink at Cassian and a warning glower thrown at Nesta, leaving them assessing the field stretching ahead. A few small stone houses rose to the right, and beyond them stood some new residences made of fresh pine. A village--that was what this place had become recently. But immediately before them lay the fighting rings, right along the edge of the flat mountaintop, fully stocked with various weapons, weights, and training supplies. Nesta had no idea what any of the impressive varieties were, beyond their basic names: sword, dagger, arrow, shield, spear, bow, brutal-looking round-spiky-ball-on-a-chain ... On their other side smoldered fire pits, clouds of smoke drifting to a fenced-in array of livestock, sheep and pigs and goats, all shaggy but well fed. And, of course, the Illyrians themselves. Females tended to steaming pots and pans around those fires--and all of them halted when Cassian and Nesta appeared. So did the dozens of males in those sparring rings. None smiled. A broad-shouldered, stocky male whom Nesta vaguely recognized sauntered their way, flanked two deep by younger males. They all had their wings tucked in tight, perhaps to walk as a unit, but as they stopped in front of Cassian, those wings spread slightly. Cassian kept his in what Nesta called his casual spread--not wide, but not tucked in close. The position conveyed the perfect amount of ease and arrogance, readiness and power. The familiar male's gaze snagged on her. "What's her business here?" Nesta gave him a secretive smile. "Witchcraft." She could have sworn Cassian muttered a plea to the Mother before he cut in, "I will remind you, Devlon, that Nesta Archeron is our High Lady's sister, and will be treated with respect." The words held enough of a bite that even Nesta glanced at Cassian's stone-cold face. She had not heard that unyielding tone since the war. "She will be training here." Nesta wanted nothing more than to shove him off the nearby cliff edge. Devlon's face curdled. "Any weapons she touches must be buried afterward. Leave them in a pile." Nesta blinked. Cassian's nostrils flared. "We will do no such thing." Devlon sniffed at her, his cronies snickering. "Are you bleeding, witch? If you are, you will not be allowed to touch the weapons at all." Nesta made herself pause. Contemplate the best way to knock the bastard down a few pegs. Cassian said with remarkable steadiness, "Those are outdated superstitions. She can touch the weapons whether she has her cycle or not." "She can," Devlon said, "but they will still be buried." Silence fell. Nesta didn't fail to note that Cassian's expression had darkened as he stared down Devlon. But he said abruptly, "How are the new recruits faring?" Devlon opened his mouth, then shut it, irritation flashing there at a fight denied. "Fine," he spat, and turned away, his soldiers following. Cassian's face tightened with each breath, and Nesta braced herself, a thrill slowly building in her blood, for him to rip into Devlon. But Cassian growled, "Let's go," and began walking toward an empty training area. Devlon glared over a shoulder, and Nesta threw him a cool look before striding after Cassian. The Illyrian's gaze lingered like a burning brand on her spine. Cassian didn't go for one of the countless weapons racks stationed throughout the training area. He just halted in the farthest ring, hands on his hips, and waited for her. Like hell would she join him. She spied a weatherworn rock near the rack of weapons, its smoothness either from the harsh climate or the untold number of warriors who'd taken a seat on it as she did then. Its frigid surface bit into her skin even through the thickness of the leathers. "What are you doing?" Cassian's handsome face was nearly predatory. She crossed her legs at the ankles and arranged the fall of her cape like the train of a gown. "I told you: I'm not training." "Get up." He'd never ordered her like that. Get up, she'd sobbed that day before the King of Hybern. Get up. Nesta met his stare. Willed hers to be distant and unruffled. "I am officially attending training, Cassian, but you can't make me do a lick of it." She motioned to the mud. "Drag me through it, if you want, but I won't lift a finger." The Illyrians' stares pelted them like stones. Cassian bristled. Good. Let him see what a waste of life, what an utter wretch, she'd become. "Get the hell up." His words were a soft snarl. Devlon and his group had returned, attracted by their argument, and gathered beyond the edge of the circle. Cassian's hazel eyes remained fixed on her, though. A slight pleading note flickered in them. Get up, a small voice whispered in her head, her bones. Don't humiliate him like this. Don't give these assholes the satisfaction of seeing him made a fool. But her body refused to move. She'd drawn her line, and to yield--to him, to anyone-- Something like disgust filled his face. Disappointment. Anger. Good. Even as something crumpled inside her, she couldn't stop the relief. Cassian turned away from her, drawing the sword sheathed down his back. And without another word, without a glance, he began his morning exercises. Let him hate her. It was better that way. <|title|>Chapter 6 <|startofchapter|>Each series of steps and movements Cassian went through was beautiful and lethal and precise, and it was all Nesta could do to not gawk. She'd never been able to look away from him. From the moment they'd met, she'd developed a keen awareness of his presence in any space, any room. She hadn't been able to stop it, to block it out, no matter how much she suggested otherwise. Go! he had begged her as he lay dying. I can't, she'd wept. I can't. She didn't know where the person she'd been in that moment had gone. Couldn't find her way back to her. But even as she sat on that rock and stared at the swaying pines covering the mountains, she watched Cassian from the corner of her eye, aware of every graceful movement, the rasp of his steady breathing, the flow of his dark hair in the wind. "Hard at work, I see." Morrigan's voice drew Nesta's gaze from the mountains and the warrior who seemed so much a part of them. The stunning female stood beside her, brown eyes fixed on Cassian, admiration shining in them. There was no sign of Devlon or his followers, as if they'd drifted away long ago. Had it been two hours already? Mor said mildly, "He is pretty, isn't he?" Nesta's spine stiffened at the warmth in her tone. "Just ask him." No amusement lit Morrigan's face as she shifted her attention down to Nesta. "Why aren't you out there?" "I'm taking a break." Morrigan's gaze swept over Nesta's face, noting the lack of sweat or flushed skin, the hair barely out of place. The female said quietly, "My vote would have been to dump you right back in the human lands, you know." "Oh, I know." Nesta refused to stand, to meet the challenge. "Good thing being Feyre's sister has its advantages." Morrigan's lip curled. Beyond her, Cassian had halted his smooth movements. Dark fire simmered in Morrigan's eyes. "I knew plenty of people like you once." Her hand drifted to her abdomen. "You never deserve the benefit of the doubt that good people like him give you." Nesta was well aware of that. And knew what manner of people Morrigan referred to--those who dwelled in the Court of Nightmares in the Hewn City. Feyre had never told her the full story, but Nesta knew the bare details: the monsters who had tormented and brutalized Morrigan until she was thrown to the wolves. Nesta leaned back on her hands, the cold rock biting through her gloves. She opened her mouth, but Cassian had reached them, breathless and gleaming with sweat. "You're early." "I wanted to see how things were coming along." Morrigan pulled her burning gaze from Nesta. "Seems like today was a slow start." Cassian raked his fingers through his hair. "You could say that." Nesta clenched her jaw hard enough to hurt. Morrigan extended a hand to him, and then threw one toward Nesta without so much as a glance. "Shall we?" Morrigan was a self-righteous busybody. The thought raged through Nesta as she stood in the subterranean library beneath the House of Wind. A vain, self-righteous busybody. Cassian hadn't spoken to her upon their return. She hadn't waited to see if he'd offer lunch, either, before going to her room and taking a bath to warm her bones. When she'd emerged, she found that a note had been slipped beneath her door. In tight, bold lettering, it told her to be in the library at one. No threats, no promises to ship her off to the human lands. As if he didn't care whether she obeyed. Well, at least breaking him had been accomplished faster than she'd anticipated. She'd ventured to the library not because of any desire to obey his or Rhysand's commands, but because the alternative was equally unbearable: sitting in her silent bedroom, nothing but the roaring in her head to fill the quiet. It had been more than a year since she'd last been down here. Since those terrifying moments when Hybern's assassins had snuck in, chasing her and Feyre into the dark heart of the library. She peered over the edge of the landing's stone railing, straight into the black pit far below. No ancient creature slumbered in that darkness anymore, but the dimness remained. And at its bottom lay the ground where Cassian had landed, reaching for her. There had been such rage on his face at the sight of her terror-- She sliced off the thought. Pushed back the tremor that went through her, and focused on the female sitting at the desk, nearly hidden by columns of books stacked there. The female's hands were wrecked. There was no polite way of describing them beyond that. Bones bent and knobbed, fingers at the wrong angles ... Feyre had once mentioned that the priestesses in this library had difficult pasts. To say the least. Nesta didn't want to know what had been done to Clotho, the library's high priestess, to render her thus. To have her tongue cut out and then deliberately healed that way so the damage might never be undone. Males had hurt her, and-- Hands shoving her down, down, down into freezing water, voices laughing and sneering. A brutish male face grinning as he anticipated the trophy that would be pulled forth-- She couldn't stop it. Couldn't save Elain, sobbing on the floor. Couldn't save herself. No one was coming to rescue her, and these males would do what they wanted, and her body was not her own, not human--not for much longer-- Nesta wrenched her thoughts back to the present, blasting back the memory. Her face veiled in the shadows beneath her pale hood, Clotho sat in silence, as if she'd seen the thoughts blare through Nesta, as if she knew how often the memory of that day in Hybern woke her. The limpid blue stone crowning the hood of Clotho's robe flickered like a Siphon in the dim light as she slid a piece of parchment across the desk. You can begin today by shelving books on Level Three. Take the ramp behind me to reach it. There will be a cart with the books, which are organized alphabetically by author. If there is no author, set them aside and ask for help at the end of your shift. Nesta nodded. "When is the end of my shift?" Using her wrists and the backs of her hands, Clotho pulled a small clock to herself. Pointed with a bulging knuckle to the six o'clock marker. Five hours of work. Nesta could do that. "Fine." Clotho considered her again. Like she could see the churning, roaring sea inside her, that refused to leave her alone for so much as a moment, that refused to grant her a second of peace. Nesta lowered her eyes to the desk. Forced herself to release a breath. But with its escape past her lips, that familiar weight swept in. I am worthless and I am nothing, Nesta nearly said. She wasn't sure why the words bubbled up, pressing on her lips to voice them. I hate everything that I am. And I am so, so tired. I am tired of wanting to be anywhere but in my own head. She waited for Clotho to gesture, to do anything to say she'd heard the thoughts. The priestess motioned to the library above and below. A silent dismissal. Feet heavy, Nesta made her way to the sloping ramp. The task was menial, but required enough concentration that time slipped away, her mind quieting to a blissful nothing. No one approached Nesta as she hunted down sections and shelves, fingers skimming over the spines of books as she searched for the right place. There were at least three dozen priestesses who worked and researched and healed here, though it was nearly impossible to count them when they all wore the same pale robes and so many kept the hoods over their faces. The ones who'd left their hoods down had offered her tentative smiles. This was their sanctuary, gifted to them by Rhysand. No one could enter without their permission. Which meant they'd approved her presence, for whatever reason. Nesta's hands were near-withered with dust by the time a bell chimed six silvery peals throughout the cavernous library, ringing from its top levels down to the black pit. Some priestesses rose from where they worked at the desks and chairs on each level; some remained. She found Clotho at the same desk. Did she ever lift her hood? She must, in order to bathe, but did she ever show anyone her face? "I'm done for the day," Nesta announced. Clotho slid another note across the desk. Thank you for your assistance. We will see you tomorrow. "All right." Nesta pocketed the note. But Clotho held up a broken hand. Nesta watched with no shortage of awe as a fountain pen lifted above a piece of paper and began to write. Wear clothes you don't mind getting dusty. You'll wreck that beautiful dress down here. Nesta glanced to the gray gown she'd thrown on. "All right," she repeated. The pen began moving again, somehow spelled to connect with Clotho's thoughts. It was nice to meet you, Nesta. Feyre speaks highly of you. Nesta turned away. "No one likes a liar, Priestess." She could have sworn a breath of amusement fluttered from beneath the female's hood. Cassian didn't come to dinner. Nesta had stopped in her room only long enough to wash the dust from her hands and face, and then nearly sprinted upstairs, stomach growling. The dining room had been empty. The place setting for one confirmed that she was in for a solitary meal. She'd stared at the sunset-bathed city far below, the sole sounds her rustling dress and creaking chair. Why was she surprised? She'd humiliated him at Windhaven. He was probably with his friends at the river house, ranting at them to find some other way to deal with her. A plate of food appeared, dumped unceremoniously onto the place mat. Even the House hated her. Nesta scowled at the red-stoned room. "Wine." None appeared. She lifted the glass before her. "Wine." Nothing. She tapped her nails on the table's smooth surface. "Were you told to not give me wine?" Talking to a house: a new low. But as if in answer, the glass filled with water. Nesta snarled toward the open archway at her back. "Funny." She surveyed the food: half a roast chicken seasoned with what smelled like rosemary and thyme; mashed potatoes swimming in butter; and green beans sauteed with garlic. That silence roared in her head, in the room. She drummed her fingers again. Ridiculous. This whole thing, this high-handed interference was ridiculous. Nesta stood and aimed for the doorway. "Keep your wine. I'll get my own. <|title|>Chapter 7 <|startofchapter|>Without the wall's magic blocking access to the human lands, Mor winnowed Cassian after sundown directly to the manor that had become home and headquarters to Jurian, Vassa, and--apparently--Lucien. Even more than a year later, the ravages of war lay evident around the estate: trees felled, barren patches of earth where greenery had not yet returned, and a general bleak openness that made the gray-stoned house seem like an accidental survivor. In the moonlight, that starkness was even emptier, the remnants of trees silvered, the shadows in the pockmarked earth deeper. Cassian didn't know to whom the home had once belonged, and apparently neither did its new occupants. Feyre had told him that they called themselves the Band of Exiles. Cassian snorted to himself at the thought. Mor didn't linger upon dropping him at the house's arched wooden door, smirking in a way that told him even if he begged her to help, she wouldn't. No, she wanted to see him play courtier, precisely as Rhys had asked. He hadn't planned on starting this mission today, but after that disastrous attempt at a lesson with Nesta, he'd needed to do something. Anything. Nesta had known exactly what bullshit she was pulling by refusing to get off that rock. How it would appear to Devlon and the other preening assholes. She'd known, and done it anyway. So as soon as he'd dumped Nesta at the House, he'd headed to a deserted cliff by the sea where the roar of the surf drowned the raging heat in his bones. He'd stopped by the river house to admit to his failure, but Feyre had only simmered with annoyance at Nesta's behavior, and Rhys had given him a wary, amused look. It was Amren who had said, Let her dig her own grave, boy. Then offer her a hand. I thought that's what this past year has been, he'd countered. Keep reaching out your hand, had been Amren's only reply. He'd found Mor soon after that, explained that he needed to be transported, and here he was. He raised his fist to the door, but the wooden slab pulled away before he could touch it. Lucien's scarred, handsome face appeared, his golden eye whirring. "I thought I sensed someone else arriving." Cassian stepped into the house, floorboards creaking beneath his boots. "You just got here?" "No," Lucien said, and Cassian marked the tightness of his shoulders beneath the dark gray jacket he wore, the taut silence emanating from every stone of the house. He marked its layout, in case he needed to fight his way to an exit. Which, given the displeasure that Lucien radiated as he strode for an archway to their left, seemed a distinct possibility. Without turning, Lucien said, "Eris is here." Cassian didn't falter. Didn't reach for the knife strapped to his thigh, though it was an effort to block the memory of Mor's battered face. The note nailed to her abdomen, her naked body dumped like garbage at the border of the Autumn Court. The fucking bastard had found her there and left her. She had been on death's threshold and-- Cassian's plans for what he'd one day do to him went far beyond the pain inflicted by a knife. Eris's suffering would last weeks. Months. Years. Cassian didn't care that Eris had convinced Keir to delay his visit to Velaris, had apparently done so out of whatever shred of kindness remained in him. Didn't care that Rhys had noted something in Eris that had earned his trust. None of that mattered to Cassian one fucking bit. His attention focused on the red-haired male seated near the roaring fire in the surprisingly fancy parlor. He knew enough to keep tabs on an enemy. Eris lounged in a golden chair, legs crossed, his pale face the portrait of courtly arrogance. Cassian's fingers curled. Every time he'd seen the prick these past five centuries, he'd struggled with it. This blinding rage at the mere sight of him. Eris smiled, well aware of it. "Cassian." Lucien's gold eye clicked, reading Cassian's rage while warning flashed in his remaining russet eye. The male had grown up alongside Eris. Had dealt with Eris's and Beron's cruelty. Had his lover slaughtered by his own father. But Lucien had learned to keep his cool. Right. Rhys had asked Cassian to do this. He should think like Rhys, like Mor. Push aside the rage. Cassian gave himself a second to do so, vaguely aware of Vassa saying something. He had noted and half-dismissed the two humans in the room: the brown-haired warrior--Jurian--and the red-haired young queen. If Rhys and Mor were here ... They wouldn't say a word about anything in front of Eris. Would pretend this was a friendly visit, to check on how the human lands were holding together. Even if Eris was most likely their ally. No, Eris was their ally. Rhys had bargained with him, worked with him. Eris had held up his end at every turn. Rhys trusted him. Mor, despite all that had happened, trusted him. Sort of. So Cassian supposed he should do so as well. His head hurt. So many things to calculate. He'd done it on battlefields, but these mind games and webs of lies ... Why had Rhys asked him to do this? He'd been direct in dealing with the Illyrians: he'd laid out the hell that would be brought down upon them if they rebelled, and shown up to help with whatever they needed. That was in no way comparable to this. Cassian blinked, and registered what Vassa had said: General Cassian. A pleasure. He gave the queen a swift, perfunctory bow. "Your Majesty." Jurian coughed, and Cassian glanced to the human warrior. Once human? Partially human? He didn't know. Jurian had been sliced apart by Amarantha, his consciousness somehow trapped within his eye, which she'd mounted on a ring and worn for five hundred years. Until his lingering bones had been used by Hybern to resurrect his body and return that essence into this form, the same one that had led armies on those long-ago battlefields during the War. Who was Jurian now? What was he? From his spot on a ridiculous pink sofa by the far wall, Jurian said, "It only goes to her head when you call her that." Vassa straightened, her cobalt jacket a sharp contrast to the red-gold of her hair. Of the three redheaded people in this room, Cassian liked her coloring the best: the golden hue of her skin, the large, uptilted blue eyes framed by dark lashes and brows, and the silken red hair, which she'd cut to her shoulders since he'd last seen her. Vassa said to Jurian, "I am a queen, you know." A queen by night, and firebird by day, sold by her fellow human queens to a sorcerer-lord who had enchanted her. Damned her into transforming each dawn into a bird of fire and ash. Cassian had waited until sundown to visit, so as to find her in her human form. He needed her to be able to speak. Jurian crossed an ankle over a knee, his muddy boots dull in the firelight. "Last I heard, your kingdom was no longer yours. Are you still a queen?" Vassa rolled her eyes, then looked to Lucien, who sank onto the sofa beside Jurian. Like the Fae male had settled similar arguments between them before. But Lucien's attention was upon Cassian. "Did you come with news or orders?" Keenly aware of Eris's presence near the fire, Cassian kept his gaze upon Lucien. "We give you orders as our emissary." He nodded to Jurian and Vassa. "But when you are with your friends, we only give suggestions." Eris snorted. Cassian ignored him, and asked Lucien, "How's the Spring Court?" He had to give Lucien credit: the male was somehow able to move between his three roles--an emissary for the Night Court, ally to Jurian and Vassa, and liaison to Tamlin--and still dress immaculately. Lucien's face revealed nothing of how Tamlin and his court fared. "It's fine." Cassian didn't know why he'd expected an update regarding the High Lord of Spring. Lucien only gave those in private to Rhys. Eris snorted again at Cassian's fumbling, and, unable to help himself, Cassian at last turned toward him. "What are you doing here?" Eris didn't so much as shift in his seat. "Several dozen of my soldiers were out on patrol in my lands several days ago and have not reported back. We found no sign of battle. Even my hounds couldn't track them beyond their last known location." Cassian's brows lowered. He knew he shouldn't let anything show, but ... Those hounds were the best in Prythian. Canines blessed with magic of their own. Gray and sleek like smoke, they could race fast as the wind, sniff out any prey. They were so highly prized that the Autumn Court forbade them from being given or sold beyond its borders, and so expensive that only its nobility owned them. And they were bred rarely enough that even one was extremely difficult to come by. Eris, Cassian knew, had twelve. "None of them could winnow?" Cassian asked. "No. While the unit is one of my most skilled in combat, none of its soldiers are remarkable in magic or breeding." Breeding was tossed at Cassian with a smirk. Asshole. Vassa said, "Eris came to see if I could think of any reason why his soldiers might have gotten into trouble with humans. His hounds detected strange scents at the site of the abduction. Ones that seemed human, but were ... odd, somehow." Cassian lifted a brow at Eris. "You believe a group of humans could kill your soldiers? They can't be that skilled, then." "Depends on the human," Jurian said, the male's face dark. Vassa's was a mirror. Cassian grimaced. "Sorry. I-- Sorry." Some courtier. But Eris shrugged a shoulder. "I think plenty of parties are interested in triggering another war, and this would be the start of it. Though perhaps your court did it. I wouldn't put it past Rhysand to winnow my soldiers away and plant some mysterious scents to throw us off." Cassian flashed him a savage grin. "We're allies, remember?" Eris gave him an identical smile. "Always." Cassian couldn't stop himself. "Maybe you made your own soldiers vanish--if they even vanished at all--and are just making this up for the same bullshit reason you just spewed out." Eris chuckled, but Jurian cut in, "There have been tensions amongst the humans regarding your kind. But as far as we know, as far as we've heard from Lord Graysen's forces, the humans here have kept to the old demarcation lines, and have no interest in starting trouble." Yet was left unsaid. Would asking about the human queens on the continent reveal Rhys's hand? The conversation had shifted toward it, so he could bring it up as idle talk, rather than as the reason he'd come here ... Fuck, his head hurt. "What about your--your sisters?" He nodded to Vassa. "Would they have anything to do with this?" Eris's gaze shot to him, and Cassian reined in his curse. Perhaps he'd said too much. He wished Mor were here. Even if putting her and Eris in a room together ... No, he'd save her that misery. Vassa's cerulean eyes darkened. "We were just getting to that, actually." She gestured to Cassian. "You've heard the same rumors we have: they're Stirring again across the sea, and are poised to start trouble." "Are they stupid enough to do it is the real question," Jurian said. "They're anything but stupid," Lucien said, shaking his head. "But leaving a human scent at the site is so obvious a clue that it seems unlikely it was one of them." "Any move they make is heavily weighed," Vassa said, glancing to the wall of windows overlooking the destroyed lands beyond. "Though I cannot think why any of them would capture your soldiers," she said to Eris, who seemed to be monitoring each word out of their mouths. "There are other Fae on the continent itself, so why bother to cross the sea to take yours? And why not the Spring Court's? Tamlin wouldn't notice anyone missing at this point." Lucien cringed, and Cassian, while inclined to smirk at the thought of the asshole suffering, found himself frowning. If war was coming, they needed Tamlin and his forces in fighting shape. Needed Tamlin ready. Rhys had been visiting him regularly, making sure he'd be both on their side and capable of leading. How Rhys had managed not to kill the High Lord of Spring was something Cassian still couldn't understand. But that was why Rhys was High Lord, and Cassian his blade. He knew if he ever got the name of the human bastard who'd put his hands on Nesta, nothing would stop him from finding the man. A conversation he'd had with Nesta years ago, when she'd still been human, forever lurked in the back of his mind. How she'd stiffened at his touch, and he'd known--scented and seen the fear in her eyes and known--that a man had hurt her. Or tried to. She'd never told him the details, but she'd confirmed it enough by refusing to share the man's name. He'd often contemplated how he'd kill the man, if Nesta gave him the go-ahead. Peeling his skin from his bones would be a good start. His friends would understand the wound it pressed. How far the pain of that ancient wound would push him to go. A razed Illyrian camp was all that remained of the first and last time he'd let himself sink to that level of rage. And Rhys had appointed him to play courtier. To put aside the blade and use his words. It was a joke. Eris uncrossed his legs. "I suppose this could be to sow tensions amongst us. To make us eye each other with suspicion. Weaken our bonds." "Hybern would have done that," Jurian agreed. "He might have taught them a thing or two." Before Nesta had beheaded him. But Vassa said, "The queens require no teaching. They were well versed in treachery before they ever contacted Hybern. And have dealt with greater monsters than him." Cassian could have sworn flames rippled across her blue eyes. Both Jurian and Lucien stared at her, the former's face utterly unreadable, and the latter's pained. Cassian suppressed his jolt. He should have asked someone before coming here how much time remained before Vassa would be forced to return to the continent--to the sorcerer-lord at a remote lake who held her leash, and had allowed her to leave only temporarily, as part of a bargain Feyre's father had struck. Feyre's father ... and Nesta's father. Cassian blocked out the memory of the man's neck being snapped. Of Nesta's face as it had happened. And deciding to damn caution to hell, he asked, "Which of the queens would do something this bold?" Vassa's golden face tightened. "Briallyn." The once-young, once-human queen who had been turned High Fae by the Cauldron. But in its rage at whatever Nesta had taken from it, the Cauldron had punished Briallyn. She was Made immortal Fae, yes--but she was withered into a crone. Doomed to be old for millennia. She'd made no secret of her hatred for Nesta. Her desire for revenge. If Briallyn made a move against Nesta, he'd kill the queen himself. Cassian tried to think over the bellowing beast in his head that tightened every muscle of his body until only bloody violence would appease it. "Easy," Lucien said. Cassian snarled. "Easy," Lucien repeated, and flame sizzled in his russet eye. The flame, the surprising dominance within it, hit Cassian like a stone to the head, knocking him from his need to kill and kill and kill whatever might threaten-- They were all staring. Cassian rolled his tensed shoulders, stretching out his wings. He'd revealed too much. Like a stupid brute, he'd let them all see too much, learn too much. "Send that shadowsinger of yours to track Briallyn," Jurian ordered, his face grave. "If she's somehow capable of capturing a unit of Fae soldiers, we need to know how. Swiftly." Spoken like the general Jurian had once been. Cassian said to Vassa, "You really think Briallyn would do something like this? Be that blatant? Someone has to be trying to fool us into going after her." Lucien asked, "How would she even get here and vanish that quickly? Crossing the sea takes weeks. She'd need to winnow to pull it off." "The queens can winnow," Jurian corrected. "They did so during the war, remember?" But Vassa said, "Only when several of us are together. And it is not winnowing as the Fae do, but a different power. It's akin to the way all seven High Lords can combine their powers to perform miracles." Well, fuck. Eris said, "I have it on good authority that the other three queens have scattered to the winds." Cassian tucked away the information and the questions it raised. How did Eris know that? "Briallyn has been residing alone in their palace for weeks now. Long before my soldiers vanished." "So she can't winnow, then," Cassian concluded. "And again--would she really be foolish enough to do something like this if the other queens have left?" Vassa's eyes darkened. "Yes. The others' departure would serve to remove obstacles to her ambitions. But she'd only do this if she had someone of immense power behind her. Perhaps pulling her strings." Even the fire seemed to quiet. Lucien's eye clicked. "Who?" "You wonder who is capable of making a unit of Fae soldiers across the sea vanish? Who could give Briallyn the power to winnow--or do it for her? Who could aid Briallyn so she'd be bold enough to do such a thing? Look to Koschei." Cassian froze as memories clicked into place, as surely as one of Amren's jigsaw puzzles. "The sorcerer who imprisoned you is named Koschei? Is he ... is he the Bone Carver's brother?" Everyone gaped at him. Cassian clarified, "The Bone Carver mentioned a brother to me once, a fellow true immortal and a death-lord. That was his name." "Yes," Vassa breathed. "Koschei is---was--the Bone Carver's older brother." Lucien and Jurian looked at her in surprise. But Vassa's gaze lay upon him. Fear and hatred filled it, as if speaking the male's name were abhorrent. Her voice hoarsened. "Koschei is no mere sorcerer. He's confined to the lake only due to an ancient spell. Because he was outsmarted once. Everything he does is to free himself." "Why was he imprisoned?" Cassian asked. "The story is too long to tell," she hedged. "But know that Briallyn and the others sold me to him not through their devices, but his. By words he planted in their courts, whispered on the winds." "He's still at the lake," Lucien said carefully. Lucien had been there, Cassian recalled. Had gone with Nesta's father to the lake where Vassa was held captive. "Yes," Vassa said, relief in her eyes. "But Koschei is as old as the sea-- older." "Some say he is Death itself," Eris murmured. "I do not know if that is true," Vassa said, "but they call him Koschei the Deathless, for he has no death awaiting him. He is truly immortal. And would know of anything that might give Briallyn an edge against us." "And you think Koschei would do all of this," Cassian pressed, "not out of sympathy for the human queens, but with the goal of freeing himself?" "Certainly." Vassa peered at her hands, fingers flexing. "I fear what may happen if he ever gets free of the lake. If he sees this world on the cusp of disaster and knows he could strike, and strike hard, and make himself its master. As he once tried to do, long ago." "Those are legends that predate our courts," Eris said. Vassa nodded. "It is all I have gleaned from my time enslaved to him." Lucien stared out the window--as if he could see the lake across a sea and a continent. As if he were setting his target. But Cassian had heard enough. He didn't wait for their good-byes before heading for the archway, and the front hall behind it. He'd made it two steps beyond the front door, breathing in the crisp night air, when Eris said behind him, "You make a terrible courtier." Cassian turned to find Eris shutting the front door and leaning against it. His face was pale and stony in the moonlight. "What do you know?" "As little as you," Cassian said, offering a truth that he hoped Eris would deem a deception. Eris sniffed the night breeze. Then smiled. "She couldn't be bothered to come inside to say hello?" How he'd detected Mor's lingering scent, Cassian didn't know. Perhaps Eris and his smokehounds had more in common than he realized. "She didn't know you were here." A lie. Mor had probably sensed it. He'd spare her the pain of coming back here, and have Rhys retrieve him. He'd fly north for a few hours--until he was in range of Rhys's power--and then shoot a thought toward him. Eris's long red hair ruffled in the wind. "Whatever it is you're doing, whatever it is you're looking into, I want in." "Why? And no." "Because I need the edge Briallyn has, what Koschei has told her or shown her." "To overthrow your father." "Because my father has already pledged his forces to Briallyn and the war she wishes to incite." Cassian started. "What?" Eris's face filled with cool amusement. "I wanted to feel out Vassa and Jurian." He didn't mention his brother, oddly enough. "But they clearly know little about this." "Explain what the fuck you mean by Beron pledging his forces to Briallyn." "It's exactly what it sounds like. He caught wind of her ambitions, and went to her palace a month ago to meet with her. I stayed here, but I sent my best soldiers with him." Cassian refrained from sniping about Eris opting out, especially as the last words settled. "Those wouldn't happen to be the same soldiers who went missing, would they?" Eris nodded gravely. "They returned with my father, but they were ... off. Aloof and strange. They vanished soon after--and my hounds confirmed that the scents at the scene are the same as those on gifts Briallyn sent to curry my father's favor." "You knew it was her this entire time?" Cassian motioned to the house and the three people inside it. "You didn't think I'd just spill all that information, did you? I needed Vassa to confirm that Briallyn could do something like that." "Why would Briallyn ally with your father only to abduct your soldiers?" "That's what I'd like to find out." "What does Beron say?" "He is unaware of it. You know where I stand with my father. And this unholy alliance he's struck with Briallyn will only hurt us. All of us. It will turn into a Fae war for control. So I want to find answers on my own--rather than what my father tries to feed me." Cassian surveyed the male, his grim face. "So we take out your father." Eris snorted, and Cassian bristled. "I am the only person my father has told of his new allegiance. If the Night Court moves, it will expose me." "So your worry about Briallyn's alliance with Beron is about what it means for you, rather than the rest of us." "I only wish to defend the Autumn Court against its worst enemies." "Why would I work with you on this?" "Because we are indeed allies." Eris's smile became lupine. "And because I do not believe your High Lord would wish me to go to other territories and ask them to help with Briallyn and Koschei. To help them remember that all it might take to secure Briallyn's alliance would be to hand over a certain Archeron sister. Don't be stupid enough to believe my father hasn't thought of that, too." Cassian's rage flashed red before his eyes. He'd revealed that weakness earlier. Let Eris see how much Nesta meant, what he'd do to defend her. Fool, he cursed himself. Stupid, useless fool. "I could kill you now and not worry about this at all," Cassian mused. He'd enjoyed beating the shit out of the male that night on the ice with Feyre and Lucien. And he'd waited centuries to kill him, anyway. "Then you would certainly have a war on your hands. My father would go straight to Briallyn--and Koschei, I suppose--and then go to the other discontent territories, and you would be wiped off the proverbial map. Perhaps literally, since the Night Court would be divvied up between the other territories if Rhysand and Feyre die without an heir." Cassian clenched his jaw. "So you're to be my ally whether I wish it or not?" "The brute understands at last." Cassian ignored the barb. "Yes. What you know, I want to know. I will notify you of any movement on my father's part regarding Briallyn. So send out your shadowsinger. And when he returns, find me." Cassian stared at him from under lowered brows. Eris's mouth curled upward, and before he winnowed into the night like a ghost, he said, "Stick to fighting battles, General. Leave the ruling to those capable of playing the game." <|title|>Chapter 8 <|startofchapter|> Nesta didn't bother to go to the wine cellar. Or to the kitchen. They'd be locked. But she knew where the stairs lay. Knew that particular door, at least, would not be locked. Still snarling, Nesta yanked open the heavy oak door and peered down the steep, narrow stairwell. Spiral stairs. Each a foot high. Ten thousand steps, around and around and around. Only the occasional slitted window to offer a breath of air and a glimpse of progress. Ten thousand steps between her and the city--and then a half-mile walk at least from the bottom of the mountain to the nearest tavern. And awaiting, blessed oblivion. Ten thousand steps. She was no longer human. This High Fae body could do it. She could do it. She couldn't do it. The dizziness hit her first. Winding around, over and over, eyes trained downward to avoid a slip that would kill her, caused her head to spin. Her empty stomach churned. But she focused, counting each step. Seventy. Seventy-one. Seventy-two. The city below barely drew any closer through the occasional slitted windows she passed. Her legs started to shake; her knees groaned with the effort of keeping her upright, balancing on the steep drop of each step. Nothing but her own breathing and the sound of her scuffing steps filled the narrow space. All she could see was the endlessly curving, perfect arc of the wall ahead. It never altered, save for those tiny, too-rare windows. Around and around and around and around and around-- Eighty-six, eighty-seven-- Down and down and down and down-- One hundred. She halted, no window in sight, and the walls pushed, the floor kept moving-- Nesta leaned into the red stone wall, let its coolness sink into her brow. Breathed. Nine thousand nine hundred steps to go. Bracing a hand on the wall, she renewed her descent. Her head spun again. Her legs wobbled. She got in eleven more steps before her knees buckled so suddenly she nearly slid. Only her hand grappling at the uneven wall kept her from wiping out. The stairwell spun and spun and spun, and she shut her eyes against it. Her jagged panting bounced off the stones. And in the stillness, she had no defenses against what her mind whispered. She couldn't shut out her father's final words to her. I loved you from the first moment I held you in my arms. Please, she'd begged the King of Hybern. Please. He'd snapped her father's neck anyway. Nesta gritted her teeth, blowing out breath after breath. She opened her eyes and stretched out her leg to take another step. It trembled so badly that she didn't dare. She didn't let herself dwell on it, rage about it, as she turned around. Didn't even let herself feel the defeat. Her legs protested, but she forced them upward. Away. Around and around again. Up and up, one hundred and eleven steps. She was nearly crawling by the last thirty, unable to get a breath down, sweat pooling in the bodice of her dress, her hair sticking to her damp neck. What the hell were the benefits of becoming High Fae if she couldn't endure this? The pointed ears, she'd learned to like. The infrequent cycle, which Feyre had warned would be painful, had actually been a boon, something Nesta was happy to worry about only twice a year. But what was the point of it--of any of it--if she couldn't conquer these stairs? She kept her eyes on each step, rather than the twisting wall and the dizzying sensation it brought. This hateful House. This horrible place. She grunted as the oak door at the top of the stairwell became visible at last. Fingers digging into the steps hard enough for the tips to bark in pain, she dragged herself up the last few, slithering on her belly onto the hallway floor. And arrived face-first in front of Cassian, smirking as he leaned against the adjacent wall. Cassian had needed some time before seeing her again. He'd updated Rhys and the others immediately upon returning; they'd received his information with dour, somber faces. By the end of it, Azriel was preparing for some reconnaissance on Briallyn as Amren pondered what powers or resources the queen and Koschei might possess, if they had indeed captured Eris's soldiers so easily. And then Cassian had been slapped with a new order: keep an eye on Eris. Beyond the fact that he approached you, Rhys had said, you are my general. Eris commands Beron's forces. Be in communication with him. Cassian had started to object, but Rhys had directed a pointed look at Azriel, and Cassian had caved. Az had too much on his plate already. Cassian could deal with that piece of shit Eris on his own. Eris wants to avoid a war that would expose him, Feyre had guessed. If Beron sides with Briallyn, Eris would be forced to choose between his father and Prythian. The careful balance he's struck by playing both sides would crumble. He wants to act when it's convenient for his plans. This threatens that. But no one had been able to decide which was the bigger threat for them: Briallyn and Koschei, or Beron's willingness to ally with them. While the Night Court had been trying to make the peace permanent, the bastard had been doing his best to start another war. After an unusually quiet dinner, Cassian had flown back up to the House. And found the oak door to the stairs open, Nesta's scent lingering. So he'd waited. Counted the minutes. It had been worth it. Seeing her claw her way onto the landing, panting, hair curling with the sweat sliding down her face--completely worth his generally shit day. Nesta was still sprawled on the hall floor when she hissed, "Whoever designed those stairs was a monster." "Would you believe that Rhys, Az, and I had to climb up and down them as punishment when we were boys?" Her eyes shimmered with temper--good. Better than the vacant ice. "Why?" "Because we were young and stupid and testing boundaries with a High Lord who didn't understand practical jokes regarding public nudity." He nodded toward the stairs. "I got so dizzy on the hike down that I puked on Az. He then puked on Rhys, and Rhys puked all over himself. It was the height of summer, and by the time we made the trek back up, the heat was unbearable, we all reeked, and the scent of the vomit on the stairs had become horrific. We all puked again as we walked through it." He could have sworn the corners of her mouth were trying to twitch upward. He didn't hold back his own grin at the memory. Even if they'd still had to hike back down and mop it all up. Cassian asked, "What stair did you make it to?" "One hundred eleven." Nesta didn't rise. "Pathetic." Her fingers pushed into the floor, but her body didn't move. "This stupid House wouldn't give me wine." "I figured that would be the only motivator to make you risk ten thousand stairs." Her fingers dug into the stone floor once more. He threw her a crooked smile, glad for the distraction. "You can't get up, can you." Her arms strained, elbows buckling. "Go fly into a boulder." Cassian pushed off the wall and reached her in three strides. He wrapped his hands under her arms and hauled her up. She scowled at him the entire time. Glared at him some more when she swayed and he gripped her tighter, keeping her upright. "I knew you were out of shape," he observed, stepping away when she'd proved she wasn't about to collapse, "but a hundred steps? Really?" "Two hundred, counting the ones up," she grumbled. "Still pathetic." She straightened her spine and raised her chin. Keep reaching out your hand. Cassian shrugged, turning toward the hall and the stairwell that would take him up to his rooms. "If you get tired of being weak as a mewling kitten, come to training." He glanced over a shoulder. Nesta still panted, her face flushed and furious. "And participate." Nesta sat at the breakfast table, grateful she'd left her room soon after sunrise to make the trek up to the dining room. It had taken her double the time it normally would, thanks to her stiff, throbbing legs. Getting out of bed had required gritted teeth and a litany of cursing. Everything afterward had only gotten worse. Bending to put her legs into her pants, going to the bathroom, even just heaving open the door. There wasn't one part of her legs that didn't ache. So she'd left her room early, not wanting to give Cassian the satisfaction of seeing her limp and grimace into the dining room. The problem, of course, was that now she wasn't entirely certain she could stand. So she'd taken a good, long while eating her meal. Was choking down the porridge when Cassian prowled through the dining room doors, took one look at her, and smirked. He knew. Somehow, the swaggering asshole knew. She might have snapped something, but Azriel stalked into the room on his heels. Nesta straightened at the shadowsinger's appearance, the darkness clinging to his shoulders as he offered her a grim smile. Azriel was nothing short of beautiful. Even with those scarred hands and the shadows that flowed from him like smoke, she'd always found him to be the prettiest of the three males who called themselves brothers. Cassian slid into the chair opposite hers, his food instantly appearing before him, and said with grating cheer, "Morning, Nesta." She threw him an equally saccharine smile. "Good morning, Cassian." Azriel's hazel eyes danced, but he said nothing as he gracefully took his place beside Cassian, a plate of his own food appearing. "I haven't seen you in a while," Nesta said to him. She couldn't remember the last time, actually. Azriel took a bite of his eggs before replying. "Likewise." The shadowsinger nodded toward her clothes. "How's training?" Cassian cut him a sharp look. Nesta glanced between them. There was no way Azriel didn't know about yesterday. Cassian had probably gloated about the incident with the Stairs, too. She sipped from her tea. "Training is fantastic. Absolutely riveting." Azriel's mouth curled up at the corner. "I hope you're not giving my brother a hard time." She set down her teacup. "Is that a threat, Shadowsinger?" Cassian took a long drink from his own tea. Drained it to the dregs. Azriel said coolly, "I don't need to resort to threats." The shadows coiled around him, snakes ready to strike. Nesta gave him a smile, holding his stare. "Neither do I." She leaned back in her chair and said to Cassian, who was frowning at both of them, "I want to train with him instead." She could have sworn Cassian went still. Interesting. Azriel coughed into his tea. Cassian drummed his fingers on the table. "I think you'll find that Az is even less forgiving than I am." "With that pretty face?" she crooned. "I have a hard time believing that." Azriel ducked his head, focusing on his food. "You want to train with Az," Cassian said tightly, "then go ahead." He appeared thoughtful for a moment, his eyes lighting before he added, "Though I doubt that you'll survive a lesson with him, when you can't manage to walk down a hundred stairs without being so sore the next morning that you're unable to get out of your chair." She braced her feet on the floor. He'd read every tinge of pain on her face if she stood, but letting him see he was right-- Azriel studied the two of them as she planted her hands on the table, bit down on her yelp, and stood in a great rush. Cassian shoveled more eggs into his mouth and said around them, "Doesn't count when you use your hands to do most of the work." Nesta schooled her face into utter disdain, even as a hiss rose inside her. "I bet that isn't what you've been telling yourself at night." Azriel's shoulders shook with silent laughter as Cassian set down his fork, his eyes gleaming with challenge. Cassian's voice dropped an octave. "Is that what those smutty books teach you? That it's only at night?" It took a heartbeat for the words to settle. And she couldn't stop it, the heat that sprang to her face, her glance at his powerful hands. Even with Azriel now biting his lip to keep from laughing, she couldn't stop herself. Cassian said with a wicked smile, "It could be anytime--dawn's first light, or when I'm bathing, or even after a long, hard day of practice." She didn't miss the slight emphasis he put on long, hard. Nesta couldn't stop her toes from curling in her boots. But she said with a slight smile, striding for the doorway, refusing to let one bit of the discomfort in her sore legs show, "Sounds like you have a lot of time on your hands, Cassian." "You're in deep shit," Azriel said mildly to him on the chilly veranda as Nesta donned her cloak inside. "I know," Cassian muttered. He had no idea how it had happened: how he'd gone from mocking Nesta to taunting her with his own bedroom habits. Then imagining her hand wrapped around him, pumping him, until he was a heartbeat away from exploding out of his chair and leaping into the skies. He knew Az had been well aware of the shift in his scent. How his skin had become too tight at the way she said his name, his cock an insistent ache rubbing against the buttons of his pants. He could count on one hand the number of times she'd addressed him by name. The thought of that one hand led him back to her hand, squeezing him rough and hard, just the way he liked it-- Cassian gritted his teeth and breathed in the crisp morning air. Willed it to settle him. Made himself focus on the morning wind's sweet song. The wind around Velaris had always been lovely, gentle. Not like the vicious, unforgiving mistress that ruled the peaks of Illyria. Az chuckled, the wind shifting the strands of his dark hair. "You two need a chaperone up here?" Yes. No. Yes. "I thought you were the chaperone." Az threw him a wicked smile. "I'm not entirely sure I'm enough." Cassian flipped him off. "Good luck today." Az would leave soon to begin his spying on Briallyn--Feyre had decided it last night. Though Rhys had asked Cassian to look into the human queens, the subterfuge would fall to Az. Azriel's hazel eyes glimmered. He squeezed Cassian's shoulder, his hand a warm weight against the chill. "Good luck to you, too." Cassian didn't know why he'd thought Nesta would enter the sparring ring with him today. She sat her ass right on the same rock as the day before and did not move. By the time Mor had appeared to winnow them to the camp, he'd managed to get enough control over himself that he'd stopped thinking about what Nesta's hands would feel like and started considering what they'd cover today. He'd planned to keep the lesson to an hour, then leave her at Rhys's mother's old house while he did a standard check of the Illyrian war- bands' state of rebuilding their ranks. He wouldn't mention that they might be flying into battle soon, depending on what Az learned. He didn't tell Nesta any of this information, either. Especially about Eris. She'd made her contempt of the Fae realms perfectly clear. And he'd be damned if he gave her one more verbal weapon to wield against him, since she'd likely see right through him and realize he knew all of this political scheming and planning was far beyond his abilities. He also didn't let himself consider whether it was wise to leave her alone up here even for an hour. "So we're back to this?" Cassian asked, ignoring how every single asshole in the camp watched him. Them. Her. Nesta picked at her nails, wisps of her braided hair drifting free in the wind. She'd hunched over her knees, keeping her body as compact as possible. He said, "You'd stop being so cold if you got up and moved." She only folded one ankle over another. "If you want to sit on that rock and freeze for the next two hours, go ahead." "Fine." "Fine." "Fine." "Good one, Nes." He threw her a mocking grin that he knew made her see red, and strode to the center of the practice area. He halted in its heart, allowing his breathing to take over. When she didn't reply, he let himself fall into that calm, steady place within his mind, let his body begin the series of motions he'd performed for five centuries straight. The initial steps were to remind his body that it was about to start working. Stretching and breathing, concentrating on everything from his toes to the tips of his wings. Waking everything up. It got harder from there. Cassian yielded to instinct and movement and breath, only dimly aware of the female watching from that rock. Keep reaching out your hand. Cassian was breathless by the time he finished an hour later. Nesta, to his satisfaction, had become rigid with cold. But she hadn't moved. Hadn't even shifted during his exercises. Wiping the sweat from his brow, he noted that her lips had taken on a blue tinge. Unacceptable. He indicated Rhys's mother's house. "Go wait in there. I have business to attend to." She didn't move. Cassian rolled his eyes. "Either you sit out here for the next hour, or you can go inside and warm up." She wasn't that stubborn--was she? Thankfully, a blast of icy wind hit the camp at that exact moment, and Nesta began moving toward the house. Its interior was indeed warm, with a fire crackling in the sooty hearth that occupied much of the main room. Feyre or Rhys must have woken the house for them. He held the door for Nesta as she walked in, already rubbing her hands. Slowly, Nesta surveyed the space: the kitchen table before the windows, the little sitting area that occupied the other half of the room, the narrow staircase that led to the exposed upstairs hallway and the two bedrooms beyond. One of those rooms had been his since childhood--the first bedroom, the first night indoors, he'd ever experienced. This house was the first true home he'd ever had. He knew every scratch and splinter, every dent and burn mark, all of it preserved with magic. There, the gouged-out spot by the base of the railing--that was where he'd cracked his head when Rhys had tackled him during one of their countless brawls. There, that stain on the old red couch: that was when he'd spilled his ale while the three of them were drunk out of their minds on their first solo night in this house at age sixteen--Rhys's mother had been off in Velaris for a rare visit to her mate--and Cassian had been too stupid drunk to know how to clean it. Even Rhys, swaying with the combination of ale and liquor, had failed to lift the stain, his magic accidentally setting it instead of wiping it away. They'd rearranged the throw pillows to hide it from his mother when she returned the next morning, but she'd spied it immediately. Perhaps it had something to do with the fact that they'd still been drunk, given away by Az's relentless hiccupping. Cassian nodded to the kitchen table. "Since you're so good at sitting, why don't you make yourself comfortable?" When she didn't answer, he turned to find Nesta standing in front of the hearth, arms tightly crossed, the flickering light dancing in her beautiful hair. She didn't look up at him. She'd always stood with that stillness. Even as a human. It had only amplified when she'd become High Fae. Nesta stared at the fire as if it murmured to that burning soul of hers. "What are you looking at?" he asked. She blinked, seeming to realize he was still there. A log on the fire popped, and she flinched. Not in surprise, he noted, but in dread. Fear. He glanced between her and the fire. Where had she gone, for those few moments? What horror had she been reliving? Her face had blanched. And shadows dimmed her blue-gray eyes. He knew that expression. Had seen it and felt it so many times he'd lost track. "There are some shops in the village," he offered, suddenly desperate for anything to remove that hollowness from her. "If you don't feel like sitting in here, you could visit them." Nesta still said nothing. So he let it drop, and left the house in silence. <|title|>Chapter 9 <|startofchapter|>Nesta stepped into the warmth of the small shop. The bell above the door jangled as she entered. The floors were fresh pine, all polished and gleaming, a matching counter occupying the back, an open door beyond it revealing a rear room. Clothes for both males and females occupied the space, some displayed on dummies, others folded neatly along display tables. A dark-haired female appeared on the other side of the counter, her braided-back hair shining in the lights. Her face was striking--elegant and sharp, contrasting with her full mouth. Her angular eyes and light brown skin suggested a heritage from another region, perhaps a recent ancestor from the Dawn Court. The light in those eyes was direct. Clear. "Good morning," the female said, her voice solid and frank. "Can I help you?" If she recognized Nesta, she didn't let on. Nesta gestured down at her fighting leathers. "I was looking for something warmer than this. The cold leaks through." "Ah," the female said, glancing toward the door and the empty street beyond. Worried that someone might see her in here? Or waiting for another customer? "The warriors are all such proud fools that they never complain about the leathers being cold. They claim they keep them perfectly warm." "They're decently warm," Nesta confessed, part of her smiling at the way the female had said proud fools. As if she shared Nesta's instinct to be unimpressed by the males in the camp. "But the cold still hits me." "Hmmm." The woman folded back the partition on the counter, entering the showroom proper. She surveyed Nesta from head to toe. "I don't sell fighting gear, but I wonder if we could get fleece-lined leathers made." She nodded toward the street. "How often do you train?" "I'm not training. I'm ..." Nesta struggled for the right words. Honestly, what she was doing was being a wretched asshole. "I'm watching," she said a shade pathetically. "Ah." The female's eyes glinted. "Brought here against your will?" It was none of her business. But Nesta said, "Part of my duties to the Night Court." She wanted to see if the female would pry, to see if she really did not know her. If she would judge her for being a miserable waste of life. The female angled her head, her braid slipping over the shoulder of her simple, homespun gown. Her wings twitched, the motion drawing Nesta's eye. Scars ran down them--unusual for the Fae. Azriel and Lucien were two of the few who bore scars, both from traumas so terrible Nesta had never dared ask for details. For this female to bear them as well-- "My wings were clipped," the female said. "My father was a ... traditional male. He believed females should serve their families and be confined to their homes. I disagreed. He won, in the end." Sharp, short words. Rhys's mother, Feyre had once told her, had nearly been doomed to such a fate. Only the arrival of his father had stopped the clipping from occurring. She'd been revealed as his mate, and endured the miserable union mostly from gratitude for her unharmed wings. No one, it seemed, had been there to save this female. "I'm sorry." Nesta shifted on her feet. The female waved a slim hand. "It's of no consequence now. This shop keeps me busy enough that some days I forget I could ever fly in the first place." "No healer can repair them?" Her face tightened, and Nesta regretted her question. "It is extremely complex--all the connecting muscles and nerves and senses. Short of the High Lord of Dawn, I'm not certain anyone could handle it." Thesan, Nesta recalled, was a master of healing--Feyre bore his power in her veins. Had offered to use it to heal Elain from her stupor after being turned High Fae. Nesta blocked out the memory of that pale face, the empty brown eyes. "Anyway," the female said quickly, "I can make inquiries to my suppliers about whether the leathers could be made warmer. It might take a few weeks, possibly a month, but I'll send word as soon as I hear." "That's fine. Thank you." A thought clanged through Nesta. "I-- How much will it cost?" She had no money. "You work for the High Lord, do you not?" The female angled her head again. "I can send the bill to Velaris." "They ..." Nesta didn't want to admit how low she'd fallen--not to this stranger. "I actually don't need the warmer clothes." "I thought Rhysand paid you all well." "He does, but I am ..." Fine. If the female could be blunt, so could she. "I'm cut off." Curiosity flooded the female's eyes. "Why?" Nesta stiffened. "I don't know you well enough to tell you that." The female shrugged. "All right. I can still make inquiries. Get a price for you. If you're cold out there, you shouldn't suffer." She added pointedly, "No matter what the High Lord may think." "I think he'd rather Cassian threw me off the edge of that cliff over there." The female snorted. But she held out a hand toward Nesta. "I'm Emerie." Nesta took her hand, surprised to find her grip like iron. "Nesta Archeron." "I know," Emerie said, releasing Nesta's hand. "You killed the King of Hybern." "Yes." There was no denying that fact. And she couldn't bring herself to lie that she wasn't the least bit smug about it. "Good." Emerie's smile was a thing of dangerous beauty. She said again, "Good." There was steel in this female. Not just in her straight spine and chin, but in her eyes. Nesta turned toward the door and waiting cold, unsure what to do with the naked approval of what so many others had regarded either with awe or fear or doubt. "Thank you for your help." So strange, to speak polite, normal words. Strange to wish to offer them, and to a stranger no less. Males and females, children darting amongst them, gawked at Nesta as she exited onto the street. A few hurried their children along. She met their stares with cool indifference. You're right to hide your children from me, she wanted to say. I am the monster you fear. "Same task as yesterday?" Nesta asked Clotho by way of greeting, still half- chilled from the camp she'd departed only ten minutes earlier. Cassian had barely spoken upon returning to Rhysand's mother's house, his face taut with whatever he'd dealt with at the other Illyrian villages, and Morrigan had been just as sour-faced when she'd appeared to winnow them back to the House of Wind. Cassian had dumped Nesta on the landing veranda without so much as a farewell before he pivoted to where Mor dusted herself off. Within seconds, he was carrying the blond beauty into the brisk wind. It shouldn't have bothered her--seeing him flying away with another female in his arms. Some small part of her knew it wasn't remotely fair to feel that body-tightening irritation at the sight. She had pushed him away again and again, and he had no reason to believe she'd wish it differently. And she knew he had a history with Morrigan, that they'd been lovers long ago. She'd turned from the sight, entering the House through its dining room, where she found a bowl of some sort of pork-and-bean soup waiting. A silent, thoughtful offering. She'd just said to the House, "I'm not hungry," before striding down to the library. Now she waited as Clotho wrote out an answer and handed over a piece of paper. Nesta read, There are books to be shelved on Level Five. Nesta peered over the railing beside Clotho's desk, silently counting. Five was ... very far down. Not within the first ring of true darkness, but hovering in the dimness above it. "Nothing lives down there anymore, right? Bryaxis hasn't come back?" Clotho's enchanted pen moved. The second note read, Bryaxis never harmed any of us. "Why?" The pen scratched along the paper. I think Bryaxis took pity on us. We saw our nightmares come true before we came here. It was an effort not to look at Clotho's gnarled hands or try to pierce the shadows beneath her hood. The priestess added to the note, I can reassign you to a higher level. "No," Nesta said hoarsely. "I'II manage." And that was that. An hour later, her leathers covered in dust, Nesta slumped at an empty wooden table, in need of a pause. That same bowl of pork-and-bean soup appeared on the table. She peered at the distant ceiling. "I said I'm not hungry." A spoon appeared alongside the bowl. And a napkin. "This is absolutely none of your business." A glass of water thudded down next to the soup. Nesta crossed her arms, leaning back in the chair. "Who are you talking to?" The light female voice had Nesta twisting around, stiffening as she found a priestess in the robes of an acolyte standing between the two nearest shelves. Her hood was thrown back, and faelight danced in the rich coppery chestnut of her pin-straight hair. Her large teal eyes were as clear and depthless as the stone usually atop a priestess's hood, and a scattering of freckles lay across her nose and cheeks, as if someone had tossed them with a careless hand. She was young--almost coltish, with her slender, elegant limbs. High Fae, and yet ... Nesta couldn't explain the way she sensed that there was something else mixed into her. Some secret beneath the pretty face. Nesta gestured to the soup and water, but they were gone. She scowled at the ceiling, at the House that had the nerve to pester her and then make her look like a lunatic. But she said to the priestess, "I wasn't talking to anyone." The priestess hefted the five tomes in her arms. "Are you finished for today?" Nesta glanced at the cart of books she'd left unsorted. "No. I was taking a break." "You've only been working for an hour." "I didn't realize anyone was timing me." Nesta allowed every bit of unpleasantness to show in her face. She'd already conversed with one stranger today, fulfilling her quota of basic decency. Being kind to a second one was beyond her. The acolyte remained unimpressed. "It's not every day we have someone new in our library." She dumped the books onto Nesta's cart. "These can be shelved." "I don't answer to acolytes." The priestess drew up to her full height, which was slightly taller than average for Fae females. A crackling sort of energy buzzed around her, and Nesta's power grumbled in answer. "You're here to work," the acolyte said, her voice unruffled. "And not only for Clotho." "You speak rather informally of your high priestess." "Clotho does not enforce rank. She encourages us to use her name." "And what is your name?" She would certainly be complaining to Clotho about this impertinent acolyte's attitude. The priestess's eyes glittered with amusement, as if aware of Nesta's plan. "Gwyneth Berdara." Unusual, for these Fae to use family names. Even Rhys didn't use one, as far as Nesta knew. "But most call me Gwyn." A level above, two priestesses walked by the railing in silence, hooded heads bowed and books in their arms. Nesta could have sworn one of them watched, though. Gwyn tracked the focus of her attention. "That's Roslin and Deirdre." "How can you tell?" With their hoods on, they appeared nearly identical save for their hands. "Their scents," Gwyn said simply, and turned to the books she'd left on the cart. "Do you plan to shelve these, or do I need to take them elsewhere?" Nesta leveled a flat look at her. Living down here, there was a good chance the priestesses didn't know who she was. What she'd done. What power she bore. "I'll do it," Nesta said through clenched teeth. Gwyn hooked her hair behind her arched ears. Freckles dotted her hands, too, like splattered bits of rust. If marks of trauma lingered, any evidence was hidden by her robe. But Nesta knew well how invisible wounds could be. How they could scar as deeply and badly as any physical breaking. And it was for that reminder alone that Nesta said more gently, "I'll do it right now." Perhaps she had a little bit of her decency quota left. Gwyn marked the change. "I don't need your pity." The words were sharp, as clear as her teal eyes. "It wasn't pity." "I've been here for nearly two years, but I haven't become so disconnected from others that I can't tell when someone remembers why I am here and alters their behavior." Gwyn's mouth flattened to a line. "I don't need to be coddled. Only spoken to like a person." "I doubt you'll enjoy the way I speak to most people," Nesta said. Gwyn snorted. "Try me." Nesta looked at her from under lowered brows again. "Get out of my sight." Gwyn grinned, a broad, bright thing that showed most of her teeth and made her eyes sparkle in a way Nesta knew her own never had. "Oh, you're good." Gwyn turned back to the stacks. "Really good." She vanished into the gloom. Nesta stared after her for a long moment, wondering if she'd imagined the whole thing. Two friendly conversations in one day. She had no idea when such a thing had last occurred. Another hooded priestess drifted by, and offered Nesta a bob of the chin in greeting. Quiet settled around her, as if Gwyn had been a summer storm that blew in and evaporated within a moment. Sighing, Nesta gathered the books Gwyn had left on the cart. Hours later, dusty and exhausted and finally hungry, Nesta stood before Clotho's desk and said, "Same story tomorrow?" Clotho wrote, Are you not pleased by your work? "I would be if your acolytes didn't boss me around like a servant." Gwyneth mentioned she had run into you earlier. She works for Merrill, my right hand, who is a fiercely demanding scholar. If Gwyneth's requests were abrupt, it was due to the pressing nature of the work she does. "She wanted me to shelve her books, not find more." Other scholars need them. But I am not in the business of explaining my acolytes' behavior. If you did not like Gwyneth's request, you should have said so. To her. Nesta bristled. "I did. She's a piece of work." Some might say the same of you. Nesta crossed her arms. "Some might." She'd have bet that Clotho was smiling beneath her hood, but the priestess wrote, Gwyneth, like you, has her own history of bravery and survival. I would ask that you give her the benefit of the doubt. Acid that felt an awful lot like regret burned in Nesta's veins. She shoved it aside. "Noted. And the work is fine." Clotho only wrote, Good night, Nesta. Nesta trudged up the steps, and entered the House proper. The wind seemed to moan through the halls, answered only by her grumbling stomach. The private library was mercifully empty when she strode through the double doors, instantly relaxing at the sight of all those books crammed close, the sunset on the city below, the Sidra a living band of gold. Sitting at the desk before the wall of windows, she said to the House, "I'm sure you won't do it now, but I would like that soup." Nothing. She sighed up at the ceiling. Fantastic. Her stomach twisted, as if it'd devour her organs if she didn't eat soon. She added tightly, "Please." The soup appeared, a glass of water beside it. A napkin and silverware followed. A fire roared to life in the hearth, but she said quickly, "No fire. No need." It banked to nothing, but the faelights in the room flared brighter. Nesta was reaching for her spoon when a plate of fresh, crusty bread appeared. As if the House were a fussing mother hen. "Thank you," she said into the quiet, and dug in. The faelights flickered once, as if to say, You're welcome. <|title|>Chapter 10 <|startofchapter|>Nesta ate until she couldn't fit another morsel into her body, helping herself to thirds of the soup. The House seemed more than happy to oblige her, and had even offered her a slice of double-chocolate cake to finish. "Ts this Cassian-approved?" She picked up the fork and smiled at the moist, gleaming cake. "It certainly isn't," he said from the doorway, and Nesta whirled, scowling. He nodded toward the cake. "But eat up." She put down the fork. "What do you want?" Cassian surveyed the family library. "Why are you eating in here?" "Isn't it obvious?" His grin was a slash of white. "The only thing that's obvious is that you're talking to yourself." "I'm talking to the House. Which is a considerable step up from talking to you." "It doesn't talk back." "Exactly." He snorted. "I walked into that one." He stalked across the room, eyeing the cake she still didn't touch. "Are you really ... talking to the House?" "Don't you talk to it?" "No." "It listens to me," she insisted. "Of course it does. It's enchanted." "It even brought food down to the library unasked." His brows rose. "Why?" "I don't know how your faerie magic works." "Did you ... do anything to make it act that way?" "If you're taking a page from Devlon's book and asking if I did any witchcraft, the answer is no." Cassian chuckled. "That's not what I meant, but fine. The House likes you. Congratulations." She growled, and he leaned over her to pick up the fork. She went stiff at his closeness, but he said nothing as he took a bite of the cake. He let out a hum of pleasure that traveled along her bones. And then took another bite. "That's supposed to be mine," she groused, peering up at him as he continued to eat. "Then take it from me," he said. "A simple disarming maneuver would do, considering my center of gravity is off balance and I'm distracted by this delicious cake." She glowered at him. He took a third bite. "These are the things, Nes, that you'd learn in lessons with me. Your threats would be a hell of a lot more impressive if you could back them up." She drummed her fingers on the desk. Eyed the fork in his hands and pictured stabbing him in the thigh with it. "You could do that, too," he said, reading the direction of her stare. "I could teach you how to turn anything into a weapon. Even a fork." She bared her teeth, but Cassian only set down the fork with grating precision and walked out, leaving her the half-eaten cake. Nesta read the deliciously erotic romance she'd found on a shelf of the private library until her eyelids grew so heavy only iron will could hold them open. It was then that she trudged down the hall to her bedroom and collapsed into bed, not bothering to change out of her clothes before she sprawled on the mattress. She woke freezing in the dark of night, roused herself enough to strip off the leathers, and climbed under the sheets, teeth clattering. A moment later, a fire blazed in the hearth. "No fire," she ordered, and it vanished again. She could have sworn a tentative curiosity curled around her. Shivering, she waited for the sheets to warm to her body temperature. Long minutes passed, and then the bed heated. Not from her own naked body, but some manner of spell. The very air warmed, too, as if someone had blown a great breath into the space. Her shaking stopped, and she nestled into the warmth. "Thank you," she murmured. The House's only answer was to slide the still-open drapes shut. By the time they'd finished swaying, she was again asleep. Elain had been stolen. By Hybern. By the Cauldron, which had seen Nesta watching it and watched her in turn. Had noted her scrying with bones and stones and made her regret it. She had done this. Brought this upon them. Touching her power, wielding it, had done this, and she would never forgive herself, never-- Elain would surely be tormented, ripped apart body and soul. A crack cleaved the world. Her father stood before her, neck twisted. Her father, with his soft brown eyes, the love for her still shining in them as their light faded-- Nesta jolted awake, nausea rippling through her as she grasped at the sheets. Deep in her gut, her soul, something writhed and twined around itself, seeking a way out, seeking a way into the world-- Nesta shoved it down. Stomped on her power. Slammed every mental door she could on it. Dream, she told it. Dream and memory. Go away. Her power grumbled in her veins, but obeyed. The bed had become hot enough that Nesta kicked off the sheets before rubbing her hands over her sweat-soaked face. She needed a drink. Needed anything to wash this away. She dressed swiftly, not quite feeling her body. Not quite caring what time it was or where she was, thinking only of the obstacle between her and that pleasure hall. The door to the ten thousand steps was already open, the faelights in the hall dimmed to near darkness. Her boots scuffed on the stones as she approached, glancing behind her to make sure no one followed. Hands shaking, she began the descent. Around and around and around. I loved you from the first moment I held you in my arms. Down and down and down. That ancient Cauldron opening an eye to stare at her. To pin her in place. The Cauldron dragging her into itself, into the pit of Creation, taking and taking from her, merciless despite her screaming-- Around and down, exactly as she had been pulled in by the Cauldron, crushed beneath its terrible power-- Nausea swelled, her power with it, and her foot slipped. She had only a heartbeat to grab for the wall, but too late. Her knees banged into the steps, her face hitting a second later, and then she was twisting and careening down, blasting into the wall, ricocheting off and tumbling down step after step after step. She flung out a hand blindly, nails biting into stone. Sparks exploded as she cried out and held on. The world stopped moving. Her body halted its plunge. Sprawled across the steps, hand clutching the stone, she panted, great sawing breaths that cut with each inhale. She shut her eyes, savoring the stillness, the utter lack of motion. And in the quiet, pain set in. Barking, bleating pain across every part of her body. The coppery tang of blood filled her mouth. Something wet and warm slid down her neck. A sniff told her it was blood, too. And her fingernails, the ones gripping the stone steps-- Nesta blinked at her hand. She had seen sparks. Her fingers were embedded in the stone, the rock glowing as if lit with an inner flame. Gasping, she snatched back her hand, and the stone went dark. But the fingerprints remained, four furrows buried in the top of the step, a single hole in the riser where her thumb had pressed. Icy dread sluiced through her. Sent her to her battered legs, knees groaning as she sprinted upward. Away from that handprint, forever etched in stone. "So, who won the fight?" Cassian asked the next morning as she sat on her rock and watched him go through his exercises. He hadn't asked at breakfast about the black eye and cut chin or how stiffly she'd moved. Neither had Mor upon her arrival. That the bruising and cuts remained at all told Nesta how bad the fall had been, but as High Fae, with her improved healing, they were already on the mend. As a human, she supposed, the fall might have killed her. Perhaps this Fae body had its advantages. Being human, being weak in this world of monsters, was a death sentence. Her High Fae body was her best chance at survival. Cassian's reticence had only lasted an hour into his routine. He stood in the center of the sparring ring, panting, sweat running down his face and neck. "What fight?" She examined her mangled nails. Even with the ... whatever it was she'd flung out to catch herself, her nails had cracked. She didn't let herself name what had come from within her, didn't let herself acknowledge it. By dawn, it had been strangled into submission. "The one between you and the stairs." Nesta cut him a glare. "I don't know what you're talking about." Cassian began moving once more, drawing his sword and running through a series of movements that all seemed designed to hack a person in two. "You know: three in the morning, you leave your room to get shitfaced- drunk in town, and you're in such a rush to conquer the steps that you fall down a good thirty of them before you can stop yourself." Had he seen the step? The handprint? She demanded, "How do you know that?" He shrugged. "Are you watching me?" Before he could answer, she spat, "You were watching and didn't come to help?" Cassian shrugged again. "You stopped falling. If you'd kept at it, someone would have eventually come to catch you before you hit the bottom." She hissed at him. He only grinned and beckoned with a hand. "Want to join me?" "I should push you down those stairs." Cassian sheathed his sword down his back in one elegant movement. Five hundred years of training--he must have drawn and sheathed that sword so many times it was muscle memory. "Well?" he demanded, an edge creeping into his voice. "If you've got those glorious bruises, you might as well claim it came from training and not a pathetic tumble." He added, "How many stairs did you manage this time?" Sixty-six. But Nesta said, "I'm not training." At the edge of the ring, males were watching them again. They'd been watching Cassian first, partially with awe and partially with what she could only assume was envy. No one moved like he did. No one even came close. But now their stares turned amused--mocking him. Once, last year, she might have gone up to those males and ripped them apart. Might have let a bit of that terrible power within her show so they truly believed she was a witch and would curse them and a thousand generations of their offspring if they insulted Cassian again. Nesta stretched out her legs, leaning her bruised palms on the stone. "Enjoy your exercises." Cassian bristled. But he held out his hand again. "Please." She'd never heard him say that word. It was a rope thrown between them. He'd meet her halfway--let her win the power battle, admit defeat, if she would just get off the rock. She told herself to get up, to take that outstretched hand. But she couldn't. Couldn't bring her body to rise. His hazel eyes were bright with pleading in the morning sun, the wind dancing in his dark hair. Like he was made from these mountains, crafted from wind and stone. He was so beautiful. Not in the way that Azriel and Rhys were beautiful, but in an uncut way. Savage and unrelenting. The first time she'd seen Cassian, she couldn't take her eyes off him. She felt like she'd spent her life surrounded by boys, and then a man--a male, she supposed--had suddenly appeared. Everything about him had radiated that confident, arrogant masculinity. It had been heady and overwhelming, and all she'd wanted, all she'd wanted for so many months, was to touch him, smell him, taste him. Get close to that strength and throw everything she was against it because she knew he'd never break, never falter, never balk. But the light in his eyes dimmed as he lowered his hand. She deserved his disappointment. Deserved his resentment and disgust. Even if it carved something vital from her. "Tomorrow, then," Cassian said. He didn't speak to her again for the rest of the day. <|title|>Chapter 11 <|startofchapter|>The private library's doors were locked. Nesta jangled the handle, but it refused to open. She said quietly, "Open this door." The House ignored her. She tried the handle again, shoving a shoulder into the door. "Open this door." Nothing. She continued slamming her shoulder into the door. "Open this door right now." The House declined to obey. She gritted her teeth, panting. She'd had more books than yesterday to shelve, as the priestesses had apparently heard from Gwyn that Nesta was to be their errand girl. So they began dumping their tomes on her cart--and a few asked her to retrieve books as well. Nesta had heeded them, if only because finding the requested books took her to new places in the library and occupied her thoughts, but by the time the clock had struck six, she was exhausted and dusty and hungry. She'd ignored the sandwich the House had laid out for her in the afternoon, and this had apparently pissed off the House enough that it now refused to allow her entry into the private library. "All I want," Nesta ground out, "is a nice, hot meal and a good book." She tried the handle again. "Please." Nothing. Nothing at all. "Fine." She stormed down the hall. Hunger alone carried her up to the dining room, where she found Cassian mid-meal, Azriel across from him. The shadowsinger's face was solemn, his eyes wary. Cassian, his back to her, only stiffened, no doubt alerted either by her scent or the cadence of her steps. She didn't speak as she aimed for a chair halfway down the table. A place setting and spread of food appeared as she reached her seat. She had a feeling that if she took the plate and left, it'd vanish from her hands before she reached the door. Nesta maintained her silence as she slid into her chair, picked up her fork, and dug into the fillet of beef and roasted asparagus. Cassian cleared his throat and said to Azriel, "How long will you be gone?" "I'm not sure." The shadowsinger's eyes bore into her before he added, "Vassa was right to suspect something deadly amiss. Things are dangerous enough over there that it would be wiser for me to keep my base here at the House and winnow back and forth." Curiosity bit deep, but Nesta said nothing. Vassa--she hadn't seen the enchanted human queen since the war had ended. Since the young woman had tried to speak to her about how wonderful Nesta's father had been, how he had been a true father to her, helped her and won her this temporary freedom, and on and on until Nesta's bones were screaming to get away, her blood boiling to think that her father had found his courage for someone other than her and her sisters. That he'd been the father she had needed--but for someone else. He had let their mother die in his refusal to send his merchant fleet hunting for a cure for her, had fallen into poverty and let them starve, but had decided to fight for this stranger? This nobody queen peddling a sad tale of betrayal and loss? That thing deep in Nesta stirred, but she ignored it, pushed it down as best she could without the distraction of music or sex or wine. She took a sip of her water, letting it cool her throat, her belly, and supposed that would have to be enough. "What'd Rhys say about it?" Cassian asked around a mouthful of food. "Who do you think insisted I not risk a base over there?" "Protective bastard." A note of affection rang in Cassian's words, though. Silence fell again. Azriel nodded at her. "What happened to you?" She knew what he meant: the black eye that was finally fading. Her hands and chin had healed, along with the bruising on her body, but the black eye had turned greenish. By tomorrow morning, it'd be gone entirely. "Nothing," she said without looking at Cassian. "She fell down the stairs," Cassian said, not looking at her, either. Azriel's silence was pointed before he asked, "Did someone ... push you?" "Asshole," Cassian growled. Nesta lifted her eyes from her plate enough to note the amusement in Azriel's gaze, even though no smile graced his sensuous mouth. Cassian went on, "I told her earlier today: if she'd bother to train, she'd at least have bragging rights for the bruises." Azriel took a calm sip of his water. "Why aren't you training, Nesta?" "I don't want to." "Why not?" Cassian muttered, "Don't waste your breath, Az." She glared at him. "I'm not training in that miserable village." Cassian glared right back. "You've been given an order. You know the consequences. If you don't get off that fucking rock by the end of this week, what happens next is out of my hands." "So you'll tattle to your precious High Lord?" she crooned. "Big, tough warrior needs oh-so-powerful Rhysand to fight his battles?" "Don't you fucking talk about Rhys with that tone," Cassian snarled. "Rhys is an asshole," Nesta snapped. "He is an arrogant, preening asshole." Azriel sat back in his seat, eyes simmering with anger, but said nothing. "That's bullshit," Cassian spat, the Siphons on the backs of his hands burning like ruby flames. "You know that is bullshit, Nesta." "I hate him," she seethed. "Good. He hates you, too," Cassian shot back. "Everyone fucking hates you. Is that what you want? Because congratulations, it's happened." Azriel let out a long, long breath. Cassian's words pelted her, one after another. Hit her somewhere low and soft, and hit hard. Her fingers curled into claws, scraping along the table as she flung back at him, "And I suppose now you'll tell me that you are the only person who doesn't hate me, and I'm supposed to feel something like gratitude, and agree to train with you." "Now I tell you I'm done." The words rumbled between them. Nesta blinked, the only sign of surprise she'd allow. Azriel tensed, as if surprised as well. But she sliced into Cassian before he could go on. "Does that mean you're done panting after me as well? Because what a relief that will be, to know you've finally taken the hint." Cassian's muscled chest heaved, his throat working. "You want to rip yourself apart, go right ahead. Implode all you like." He stood, meal half- finished. "The training was supposed to help you. Not punish you. I don't know why you don't fucking get that." "I told you: I'm not training in that miserable village." "Fine." Cassian stalked out, his pounding steps fading down the hall. Alone with Azriel, Nesta bared her teeth at him. Azriel watched her with that cool quiet, keeping utterly still. Like he saw everything in her head. Her bruised heart. She couldn't bear it. So she stood, only two bites taken from her food, and left the room as well. She returned to the library. The lights blazed as brightly as they had during the day, and a few lingering priestesses wandered the levels. She found her cart, filled again with books needing to be shelved. No one spoke to her, and she spoke to no one as she began to work, with only the roaring silence in her head for company. E: Amren had been wrong. Keep reaching out your hand was utter bullshit when the person it was extended to could bite hard enough to rip off fingers. Cassian sat on the flat top of the mountain in which the House of Wind had been built, peering down into the open-air training ring beneath him. The stars glinted overhead, and a brisk autumn breeze that whispered of changing leaves and crisp nights flowed past him. Below, Velaris was a golden sparkle, accented along the Sidra with a rainbow of color. He had never failed at anything. Not like this. And he'd been so stupidly desperate, so stupidly hopeful, that he hadn't believed she'd truly refuse. Until today, when he'd seen her on that rock and known she'd wanted to get up, but watched her shut down the instinct. Watched her clamp that steel will over herself. "You're not the brooding type." Cassian started, whipping his head to find Feyre sitting beside him. She dangled her feet into the emptiness, her golden-brown hair ruffled by the wind as she peered into the training pit. "Did you fly in?" "Winnowed. Rhys said you were 'thinking loudly.' " Feyre's mouth quirked to the side. "I figured I'd see what was happening." A fine skin of power remained wrapped around his High Lady, invisible to the naked eye but glittering with strength. Cassian nodded toward her. "Why's Rhysie still got that ironclad shield on you?" It was mighty enough to guard all of Velaris. "Because he's a pain in the ass," Feyre said, but smiled softly. "He's still learning how it works, and I still haven't figured out how to break free of it. But with the queens a renewed threat, and Beron in the mix, especially if Koschei is their puppet master, Rhys is perfectly happy to leave it on." "Everything with those queens is a fucking headache," Cassian grumbled. "Hopefully, Az will figure out what they're really up to. Or at least what Briallyn and Koschei are up to." Rhys was still contemplating what to do about Eris's demands. Cassian supposed he'd get his orders on that front soon. And would then have to deal with the asshole. General to general. "Part of me dreads what Azriel will find," Feyre said, leaning back on her hands. "Mor's heading off to Vallahan again tomorrow. I worry about that, too. That she'll come back with worse news about their intentions." "We'll deal with it." "Spoken like a true general." Cassian knocked Feyre's shoulder with his wing, a casual, affectionate gesture. One he never dared make with the females of any Illyrian community. Illyrians were psychotic on a good day about who touched their wings and how, and wing-touching outside of the bedroom, training, or mortal combat was an enormous taboo. But Rhys never cared, and Cassian had needed the contact. Always needed physical contact, he'd learned. Probably thanks to a childhood spent with precious little of it. Feyre seemed to understand his need for a reassuring touch, because she said, "How bad is it?" "Bad." It was all he could bring himself to admit. "But she's going to the library?" "She went back to the library tonight. She's still down there for all I know." Feyre gave a hmm of contemplation, gazing at the city. His High Lady looked so young--he always forgot how young she truly was, considering what she'd already faced and achieved in her life. At twenty-one, he'd still been drinking and brawling and fucking, unconcerned with anything and anybody except his ambition to be the most skilled of Illyrian warriors since Enalius himself. At twenty-one, Feyre had saved their world, mated, and found true happiness. Feyre asked, "Did Nesta say why she won't train?" "Because she hates me." Feyre snorted. "Cassian, Nesta does not hate you. Believe me." "She sure as shit acts like it." Feyre shook her head. "No, she doesn't." Her words were pained enough that he frowned. "She doesn't hate you, either," he said quietly. Feyre shrugged. The gesture made his chest ache. "For a while, I thought she didn't. But now I don't know." "I don't understand why you two can't just ..." He struggled for the right word. "Get along? Be civil? Smile at each other?" Feyre's laugh was hollow. "It's always been that way." "Why?" "I have no idea. I mean, it was always that way with us, and our mother. She only had an interest in Nesta. She ignored me, and saw Elain as barely more than a doll to dress up, but Nesta was hers. Our mother made sure we knew it. Or she just cared so little what we thought or did that she didn't bother to hide it from us." Resentment and long-held pain laced every word. That a mother would do such a thing to her children ... "But when we fell into poverty, when I started hunting, it got worse. Our mother was gone, and our father wasn't exactly present. He wasn't fully there. So it was me and Nesta, always at each other's throats." Feyre rubbed her face. "I'm too exhausted to go over every detail. It's all just a tangled mess." Cassian refrained from observing that both sisters seemed to need each other--that Nesta perhaps needed Feyre more than she realized. And from mentioning that this mess between the two females hurt him more than he could express. Feyre sighed. "That's my long way of saying that if Nesta hated you ... I know what it looks like, and she doesn't hate you." "She might after what I said to her tonight." "Azriel filled me in." Feyre rubbed her face again. "I don't know what to do. How to help her." "Three days in and I'm already at my wits' end," he said. They sat in silence, the wind drifting past them. Mist gathered on the Sidra far below, and white plumes of smoke from countless chimneys rose to meet it. Feyre asked, "So what do we do?" He didn't know. "Maybe the library work will be enough to pull her out of this." But even as he spoke the words, they rang false. Feyre apparently agreed. "No, in the library she can hide in the silence and amongst the shelves. The library was meant to balance what the training does." He rolled his shoulders. "Well, she said she's not training in that miserable village, so we're at an impasse." Feyre sighed again. "Seems like it." But Cassian paused. Blinked once, and peered down at the training ring before him. "What?" He snorted, shaking his head. "I should have known." A tentative smile bloomed on Feyre's mouth, and Cassian leaned in to kiss her cheek. He only got within an inch of her face before his lips met night-kissed steel. Right--the shield. "That level of protection is insane." She smoothed her thick cream sweater. "So is Rhys." Cassian sniffed, trying and failing to detect her scent. "He's got your scent shielded, too?" Feyre grinned. "It's all part of the same shield. Helion wasn't joking about it being impenetrable." And despite everything, Cassian grinned back. Memory washed over him from when he'd met her in the dining room several levels below, this girl who would become his High Lady. She'd been so horribly thin then, so dead-eyed and withdrawn that it had taken all his self-control not to fly to the Spring Court and rip Tamlin limb from limb. Cassian shook the thought away, focusing instead on the revelation before him. One last time. He'd try one last time. <|title|>Chapter 12 <|startofchapter|>Nesta stood in the training ring atop the House of Wind and scowled. "I thought we were going up to Windhaven." Cassian strode over to the rope ladder laid out on the ground and straightened a rung. "Change of plans." No trace of that red-hot anger had remained on his face this morning when she'd walked into the breakfast room. Azriel was already gone, and Cassian hadn't said a word about why he'd left. Something about the queens, presumably, judging by what she'd heard the previous night. When she'd finished her porridge, she'd looked for any sign of Morrigan, but the female had never appeared. And Cassian had led her here, not speaking on the walk up. Everyone hates you. The words had lingered, like a bell that wouldn't stop ringing. He finally clarified, "Mor's gone back to Vallahan, and Rhys and Feyre are busy. So there's no one to winnow us to Windhaven. We'll be training here today." He gestured to the empty ring. Free of any watching eyes. He added with a sharp grin that made her swallow, "Just you and me, Nes." Nesta had said last night she wasn't training at the village. She'd said it multiple times, Cassian had realized. She wasn't training at that miserable village. He should have realized it days ago. He knew her better than that, after all. Nesta might be willing to face down the King of Hybern himself, but she was proud as all hell. Appearing foolish, making herself vulnerable-- she'd rather die. Would rather sit on a freezing rock in the icy wind for hours than look like a fool in front of anyone, especially arrogant warriors predisposed to mock any female who attempted to fight like them. It didn't matter to him where she trained. So long as she began the training. If she refused today, he didn't know what he'd do. The morning sun beat down, promising a warm day, and Cassian removed his leather jacket before rolling up a shirtsleeve. "Well?" he asked, lifting his eyes to her face. The hesitation made his chest tighten unbearably. But he stomped on that hope, slowly folding his other sleeve. He wondered if she noticed his fingers trembling slightly. Pretend everything is normal. Don't scare her off. There was nowhere for her to plant that beautiful ass here. He'd already moved the lounge chairs that Amren--and sometimes Mor--liked to use for sunbathing while he and the others trained. When Nesta remained by the doorway, Cassian found himself saying, "I'll make a bargain with you." Her eyes flashed. Fae bargains were no idle thing. He knew Feyre had already versed Nesta in them, when her sister had first come here. As a precaution. From Nesta's wary gaze, he knew she remembered Feyre's warnings well: Fae bargains were bound by magic and marked in ink upon one's body. The ink would not fade until the bargain had been fulfilled. And if the bargain was broken ... the magic could exact terrible vengeance. Cassian maintained a casual stance. "If you do an hour of exercises right now, I'll owe you a favor." "I don't need any favors from you." "Then name your price." He struggled to calm his racing heart. "An hour of training for whatever you want." "That's a fool's bargain for you." Her eyes narrowed. "I thought you were a general. Aren't you supposed to be good at negotiating?" His mouth quirked upward. She wasn't fighting him. "For you, I have no strategies." She studied him with unflinching focus. "Anything I want?" "Anything." He added wryly, "Anything short of you ordering me to fall out of the sky and smash my head on the earth." She didn't smile the way he'd hoped. Her eyes turned to chips of ice. "You truly believe me capable of such a thing?" "No," he said without hesitation. Her mouth tightened. Like she didn't believe him. And--those were purple smudges under her eyes. How long had she worked in the library last night? Demanding to know why she'd stayed up so late wouldn't be wise. He'd save that battle for another time. In an hour, perhaps. She surveyed him again, and Cassian willed himself to stand still, to appear open and nonthreatening and not like his very heart was in his bloody, outstretched hands. She said at last, "Fine. Let's just say it will be a favor. Of whatever size I wish." It was dangerous to allow this. Deadly. Stupid. But he said, "Yes." He extended his hand. One last time. Keep reaching out your hand. "A bargain." He met her steely expression with his own. "You train with me for an hour, and I'll owe you one favor of whatever size you wish." "Agreed." She slid her hand into his and shook firmly. Magic zapped between them, and she gasped, recoiling. Cassian let it thunder into him, like a stampede of galloping horses. He rode it out. Whatever her power was, it had made the bargain more intense. Demanding. He scanned his hands, his bare forearms, seeking any hint of a tattoo beyond the Illyrian ones he bore for luck and glory. Nothing. It had to be somewhere. He peeled off his shirt and scanned the muscled planes of his torso. Nothing. He approached the narrow mirror leaned against one end of the ring, left there for them to study their technique while exercising alone. Stopping before it, Cassian twisted, staring over a shoulder at his tattooed back. There, dead in the center of the Illyrian tattoo snaking down his spine, a new tattoo had appeared. An eight-pointed star, whose compass points radiated in sharp lines across and up the groove of his back, twining with the Illyrian markings long inked there. The eastern and western points of the star shot right onto his wings, black blending into black. A matching one, he knew, would be on Nesta's spine. He tried not to think about her bare expanse of skin, now marked in black ink, as he faced her. Nesta's eyes weren't on the mirror, though. No, they'd fixed on his torso. On his chest, on his abdominal muscles, on his bare arms. Her pulse fluttered in her throat. He didn't dare move, not as her gaze fixed on the vee of muscles that sloped beneath the waist of his pants. Not as her eyes darkened, her lashes bobbing as color crept over her pale skin. His blood heated, skin tightening over bone and muscle, as if it could feel the touch of her blue-gray eyes, as if it were her fingers running over his stomach. Lower. He knew better than to throw out a teasing remark. Rile her, and she'd not only refuse to train, bargain or no, but she'd stop looking at him like that. Slowly, her eyes trailed up his body, lingering on his carved pectorals and the Illyrian tattoo that swirled over one of them before flowing down his left arm. He might have flexed. Slightly. His voice thick, he managed to say, "Ready?" Cauldron boil him, he knew the question held more meanings than he cared to unravel. From the glimmer in her eyes, he knew she got it. But she squared her shoulders. "All right. I owe you one hour of training." "You sure as hell do." Cassian mastered his breathing, shoving aside that roaring desire. He strode to the center of the ring, but opted to keep his shirt off. Because of the warm day. Because his skin was now burning hot. He gestured to the space beside him, and flashed her his broadest grin. "Let's see what you've got, Archeron." A bargain--with Cassian. Nesta didn't know how she'd allowed herself to agree to it, to let that magic pass between them and mark her, but ... Everyone hates you. Maybe it was that fact alone that had her agreeing to this insanity. She had no idea what favor she'd call in from him, but ... Fine. This training ring, with its high walls, the sky her only witness--here, she supposed, she could let him do his worst. No matter that Cassian without a shirt bordered on obscene, even with the collection of scars peppering his golden-brown skin. The one on his left pectoral was especially horrific--and one she knew he hadn't received during the war with Hybern. She didn't want to know what had been bad enough to leave a scar on his quick-healing body. Especially when all evidence of the devastating wound he'd gotten during the war was gone. Only rippling muscle and skin remained. Honestly, there were so many muscles she couldn't count them all. Muscles on his damned ribs. She didn't know people could have them there. And those ones that flowed into his pants, like a golden arrow pointing to exactly what she wanted-- Nesta shook the thought out of her head as she approached Cassian in the center of the ring. He grinned like a fiend. She stopped a good three feet away, the morning sun warm on her hair, her cheeks. It was the closest she'd stood to him without arguing or bickering in ... a long time. Cassian rolled his powerful shoulders, his sprawling tattoo shifting with the movement. "All right. We start with the basics." "Swords?" She indicated the rack of weapons against the wall to the left of the archway into the stairwell. His mouth curled upward. "You won't be getting to swords yet. You need to learn to control your movements, your balance. You'll develop basic strength and awareness of your body before you'll pick up even a wooden practice sword." He glanced at her laced-up boots. "Feet and breathing." She blinked. "Feet?" "Your toes especially." He was completely serious. "What about my toes?" "Learning how to grip the ground, to balance your weight--it builds a foundation for everything else." "I'm going to be exercising my toes." He chuckled. "You thought it'd be swords and arrows on day one?" Arrogant ass. "You threw my sister into the training ring and did just that." "Your sister already possessed a skill set you don't have, and also lacked the luxury of time." Hunting to keep them fed had taught Feyre that skill set. Hunting, while Nesta had stayed home, safe and warm, and let Feyre venture into that forest alone. Those skills Feyre had honed had allowed her to survive against the High Fae and all their terrors, but ... Feyre only had them because of what she'd been forced to do. Because Nesta hadn't been the one to do it. To step up. She found Cassian watching carefully. As if he heard those thoughts, felt their weight on her. "Feyre taught me how to use a bow." Only a few lessons, and long ago, but Nesta remembered. It was one of the few times she and Feyre had been allies. "Not an Illyrian bow." Cassian gestured to a rack of massive bows and quivers beside the mirror. The bows were nearly as tall as a grown woman. "It took me until I was a mature adult to have the strength to even string one of those." Nesta crossed her arms, drumming her fingers on her biceps. "So I'm going to spend an hour out here, wiggling my toes?" Cassian's grin bloomed again. "Yes." At some point, Nesta began sweating. Her feet ached, her legs turned to jelly. She'd taken off her boots and gone through a few stances with Cassian, focusing on clenching her toes, finding her balance, and generally looking like a fool. At least no one was around to see her standing on one leg while hinging at the hip, the other leg rising behind her. Or using two wooden poles to steady herself while she swung her foot from pole to pole, working her way up each stick. Or doing a basic squat--that it turned out was all wrong, her weight misplaced and back too arched. All basic, stupid things. And all things she failed utterly at. Cassian didn't seem even remotely impressed as she rose from the squat he'd made her hold while supporting a wooden stick above her head. "Stand straight up, head first." Nesta obeyed. "No." He motioned for her to sink back down. "Head first. Don't curl your back or lean forward. Shoot straight up." "I'm doing that." "You're hunching. Push your feet into the ground. Grip with your toes as you bring your head right-- Yes." She glared as she stood. Cassian just said, "Do another good one, then our hour's up." She did so, panting hard, knees trembling and thighs bleating in burning pain. When she'd finished, she propped herself up with the pole she'd lifted over her head. "That's it?" "Unless you want to bargain with me for a second hour." "You really want to owe me two favors?" "If it'll keep you here to finish the lesson, sure." "I'm not sure I can take any more of these stretches." "Then we'll do some breathing work and then a cooldown." "What's a cooldown?" "More stretching." He grinned. When she opened her mouth, he explained, "It's designed to help bring your body back to a normal pace and limit any soreness you'll have later." His tone held no condescension. So she asked, "And what's breathing work?" "Exactly what it sounds like." He put a hand on his stomach, right on those rippling muscles, and took a big, inhaling breath before slowly releasing it. "Your power when you fight comes from many places, but your breathing is one of the big ones." He nodded toward the stick in her hands. "Thrust it forward like you're skewering someone with a spear." Brows rising, she did so, the motion awkward and inelegant. He only nodded. "Now do it again, and as you do, inhale." She did, the motion markedly weaker. "And now do it again, but exhale with the thrust." It took her a second or two to orient her breathing, but she obeyed, shoving the stick forward as she blew out a breath. Power rippled down her arms, her body. Nesta blinked at the stick. "I could feel the difference." "It's all linked. Breath and balance and movement. Bulky muscle like this"--he tapped that absurdly contoured stomach of his--'"means shit when you don't know how to utilize it." "So how do you learn to control your breathing?" He smiled again, hazel eyes bright in the sun. "Like this." So began another series of movements, all so damned simple when he demonstrated, but nearly impossible to coordinate in her own body when she went to replicate them. But she focused on her breathing, on the power of it, as if her lungs were the bellows of some great forge. The sun arced higher, crossing the training space, dragging the shadows with it. Inhale. Exhale. Breaths accented by a deep lunge, or a squat, or balancing on one leg. All exercises she'd done in the first hour, but now revealed anew with the added layer of breathing. Breathing in and out, out and in, body and mind flowing, her concentration unwavering. Cassian's commands were firm, but gentle, encouraging without being irksome. Hold it, hold it, hold it--and release. Good. Again. Again. Again. There wasn't a part of her body that wasn't sliding with sweat, wasn't one part that wasn't shaking as he bade her lie down on a black mat at the far end of the ring. "Cooldown," he said, kneeling and patting the mat. She was too tired to object, practically flinging herself onto it and Staring at the sky. The blue bowl arched into forever, the sun stinging against the sweat on her face. Wisps of clouds drifted through the dazzling blue, unconcerned with her entirely. Her mind had become as clear as that sky, the fog and pressing shadows gone. "Do you like flying?" She didn't know where the question came from. He peered down at her. "I love it." The truth rang out in those words. "It's freedom and joy and challenge." "I met a female shop owner at Windhaven who'd had her wings clipped." She turned her head from the sky to look over at him. His face had tightened. "Why do Illyrians do that?" "To control their women," Cassian said with quiet anger. "It's an old tradition. Rhys and I tried to stamp it out by making it illegal, but change takes a while amongst the High Fae. For stubborn asses like the Illyrians, it takes even longer. Emerie--I'm assuming that's who you met, since she's the only female shop owner--was one who slipped through the cracks. It was during Amarantha's reign, and ... a lot of shit slipped through the cracks." His eyes turned haunted, not only from what had been done to Emerie by her father, Nesta could tell, but at the memories of those fifty years. The guilt. And perhaps it was to save him from reliving those memories, to banish that unwarranted guilt in his eyes, that she nestled against the mat and said, "Cooldown." "You sound eager." She met his stare. "I ..." She swallowed. Hated herself for balking, and forced herself to say, "The breathing makes my head stop being so ..." Horrible. Awful. Miserable. "Loud." "Ah." Understanding washed over his face. "Mine too." For a moment, she held his gaze, watched the wind tug at the strands of his shoulder-length hair. The instinct to touch the sable locks had her pressing her palms to the mat, as if physically restraining herself. "Right." Cassian cleared his throat. "Cooldown." She'd done well. Really damn well. Nesta finished the cooldown and sprawled on the black mat, as if needing to piece herself together. Rally her strength. Cassian let her, rising to his feet and walking to the water station to the right of the archway. "You need to drink as much water as you can," he said, taking two glasses and filling them from the ewer on the small table. He returned to her side, sipping from his own. Nesta remained prone, limbs loose, eyes closed, the sunlight making her hair, her sweaty skin, shine. He couldn't stop the image from rising: of her lying in his bed like this, sated, her body limp with pleasure. He swallowed hard. She cracked open an eye, sitting up slowly, and took the water he extended. Chugged it, realized how thirsty she was, and eased to her feet. He watched as she aimed for the ewer, filling her glass and draining it twice more before she finally set it down. "You never told me what you wanted for the second hour of training," he said eventually. She looked over a shoulder. Her skin was rosy in a way he hadn't seen for a long, long time, her eyes bright. The breathing, she'd said, had helped her. Settled her. Looking at the slight change on her face, he believed it. What would happen when the high wore off remained to be seen. Small steps, he assured himself. Small, small steps. Nesta said, "The second hour was on the house." She didn't smile, didn't so much as wink, but Cassian grinned. "Generous of you." She rolled her eyes, but without her usual venom. "I have to change before I go to the library." As Nesta entered the archway, the gloom of the stairwell beyond it, Cassian blurted, "I didn't mean what I said last night--about everyone hating you." She halted, her blue-gray eyes frosting. "It's true." "Its not." He dared one step closer. "You're here because we don't hate you." He cleared his throat, running a hand through his hair. "I wanted you to know that. That we don't--that I don't hate you." She weighed whatever the hell lay in his stare. Likely more than was wise to let her see. But she said quietly, "And I have never hated you, Cassian." With that, she walked through the doorway into the House, as if she hadn't hit him right in the gut, first with the words, then by using his name. It wasn't until she'd vanished down the stairs that he released the breath he'd been holding. <|title|>Chapter 13 <|startofchapter|>She was starving. It was the only thought that occupied Nesta as she shelved book after book. That, and how sore her body was. Her thighs burned with each foot she walked up and down the ramp of the library, her arms unbearably stiff with each book she lifted to its resting place. That much soreness, just from stretches and balance exercises. She didn't want to consider what a workout like the ones she'd seen Cassian go through would do to her. She was pathetic for being so weak. Pathetic for now being unable to walk so much as a step without grimacing. "Cooldown, my ass," she grumbled, heaving a tome into her hands. She peered at the title and groaned. It belonged on the other side of this level--a good five-minute walk across the central atrium and down the endless hall. Her throbbing legs might very well give out halfway there. Her stomach gurgled. "I'll deal with you later," she told the book, and scanned the other titles remaining in her cart. None, fortunately or unfortunately, needed to be shelved in the section that book belonged in. To lug the cart all the way over there would be exhausting--better to just carry the tome, even if it was an essentially meaningless trip to deposit one book. Not that she had anything better to do with her time. Her day. Her life. Whatever clarity she'd felt in the training ring levels and levels above fogged up again. Whatever calm and quiet she'd managed to capture in her head had dissipated like smoke. Only moving would keep it at bay. Nesta found the next shelf required--quite a ways above her head, with no stool in sight. She rose onto her toes, legs shrieking in protest, but it was too high. Nesta was on the taller side for a female, standing a good two inches above Feyre, but this shelf was out of reach. Grunting, she attempted to shelve the book with her fingertips, arms straining. "Oh, good. It's you," a familiar female voice said from down the row. Nesta pivoted to discover Gwyn striding swiftly toward her, arms laden with books and coppery hair shimmering in the dim light. Nesta didn't bother to look pleasant as she lowered herself fully onto her feet. Gwyn angled her head, as if finally realizing what she'd been doing. "Can't you use magic to put it up on the shelf?" "No." The word was cool and sullen. Gwyn's brows twitched toward each other. "You don't mean to tell me you've been shelving everything by hand?" "How else would I do it?" Gwyn's teal eyes narrowed. "You have power, though, don't you?" "It's none of your concern." It was no one's concern. She had none of the High Fae's usual gifts. Her power--that thing--was utterly alien. Grotesque. But Gwyn shrugged. "Very well." She dumped her books right into Nesta's arms. "These can go back." Nesta staggered under the books' weight and glared. Gwyn ignored the look, instead glancing around before lowering her voice. "Have you seen volume seven of Lavinia's The Great War?" Nesta scanned her memory. "No. I haven't come across that one." Gwyn frowned. "It's not on its shelf." "So someone else has it." "That's what I was afraid of." She released a dramatic breath. "Why?" Gwyn's voice quieted into a conspiratorial whisper. "I work for someone who is very ... demanding." Memory tugged at Nesta. Someone named Merrill, Clotho had told her the other day. Her right hand. "I take it you're not fond of the person?" Gwyn leaned against one of the shelves, crossing her arms with a casualness that belied her priestess's robes. Again, she wore no hood and no blue stone atop her head. "Honestly, while I consider many of the females here to be my sisters, there are a few who are not what I would consider nice." Nesta snorted. Gwyn again peered down the row. "You know why we're all here." Shadows swarmed her eyes--the first Nesta had seen there. "We all have endured ..." She rubbed her temple. "So I hate, I hate to even speak ill of any one of my sisters here. But Merrill is unpleasant. To everyone. Even Clotho." "Because of her experiences?" "I don't know," Gwyn said. "All I know is that I was assigned to work with Merrill and aid in her research, and I might have made a teensy mistake." She grimaced. "What manner of mistake?" Gwyn blew out a sigh toward the darkened ceiling. "I was supposed to deliver volume seven of The Great War to Merrill yesterday, along with a stack of other books, and I could have sworn I did, but this morning, while I was in her office, I looked at the stack and saw I'd given her volume eight instead." Nesta reined in her eye rolling. "And this is a bad thing?" "She'll kill me when it's not there for her to read today." Gwyn hopped from foot to foot. "Which could be any moment. I got away the instant I could, but the book isn't on the shelf." She halted her fidgeting. "Even if I found the book, she'd spot me swapping it into the pile." "And you can't tell her?" Gwyn couldn't be serious about the killing thing. Though with the faeries, Nesta supposed it might be a possibility. Despite this place being one of peace. "Gods, no. Merrill doesn't accept mistakes. The book is supposed to be there, I told her it was there, and ... I messed up." The priestess's face paled. She looked almost ill. "Why does it matter?" Emotion stirred in those remarkable eyes. "Because I don't like to fail. I can't ..." Gwyn shook her head. "I don't want to make any more mistakes." Nesta didn't know how to unpack that statement. So she just said, "Ah." Gwyn went on, "These females took me in. Gave me shelter and healing and family." Again, her large eyes darkened. "I cannot stand to fail them in anything. Especially someone as demanding as Merrill. Even when it might seem trivial." Admirable, though Nesta was loath to admit it. "Have you left this mountain since you arrived?" "No. Once we come in, we do not leave unless it is time for us to depart --back to the world at large. Though some of us remain forever." "And never see daylight again? Never feel fresh air?" "We have windows, in our dormitories." At Nesta's confused expression, she clarified, "They're glamoured from sight on the mountainside. Only the High Lord knows about them, since they're his spells. And you now, I suppose." "But you don't leave?" "No," Gwyn said. "We don't." Nesta knew she could let the conversation end there, but she asked, "And what do you do with the time you're not in the library? Practice your ... religious things?" Gwyn huffed a soft laugh. "In part. We honor the Mother, and the Cauldron, and the Forces That Be. We have a service at dawn and at dusk, and on every holy day." Nesta must have made a face of distaste because Gwyn snorted. "It's not so dull as all that. The services are beautiful, the songs as fair as any you'd hear in a music hall." That did sound rather interesting. "I enjoy the dusk services," Gwyn continued. "The music was always my favorite part of it, you know. I mean, not here. I was a priestess--an acolyte still--before I came here." She added a shade quietly, "In Sangravah." The name sounded familiar to Nesta, but she couldn't place it. Gwyn shook her head, her face pale enough that her freckles stood out in stark relief. "I need to return to Merrill before she starts wondering where I am. And come up with some way to save my hide when she can't find that book in the pile." She jerked her chin to the books in Nesta's hands. "Thanks for that." Nesta only nodded, and the priestess was gone, coppery-brown hair fading from sight. She made it back to her cart with minimal wincing and grunting, though standing still for so long with Gwyn had made it nearly impossible for her to start walking again. A few priestesses drifted by, either directly past her or on one of the levels above or below, utterly silent. This whole place was utterly silent. The only bit of color and sound came from Gwyn. Would she remain here, locked beneath the earth, for the rest of her immortal life? It seemed a shame. Understandable for what Gwyn must have endured, yes--what all these females had endured and survived. But a shame as well. Nesta didn't know why she did it. Why she waited until no one was around before she said into the hushed air of the library, "Can you do me a favor?" She could have sworn she sensed a pause in the dust and dimness, a piqued interest. So she asked, "Can you get me volume seven of The Great War? By someone named Lavinia." The House had no problem sending her food--perhaps it could find the tome for her. Again, Nesta could have sworn she felt that pause of interest, then a sudden vacancy. And then a thump sounded on her cart as a gray leather-bound book with silver lettering landed atop her pile. Nesta's lips curved upward. "Thank you." A soft, warm breeze brushed past her legs, like a cat wending between them in warm greeting and farewell. When the next priestess passed, Nesta approached her. "Excuse me." The female halted so swiftly her pale robes swayed with her, the blue stone on her hood gleaming in the soft faelight. "Yes?" Her voice was soft, breathy. Curly black hair peeked out from her robe, and rich brown skin gleamed on her lovely, delicate hands. Like Clotho, she wore her hood over her face. "Merrill 's office--where is it?" Nesta gestured to the cart behind her. "I have a few books for her but don't know where she works." The priestess pointed. "Three levels up--Level Two--at the end of the hall on your right." "Thank you." The priestess hurried along, as if even that moment of social interaction had been too much. But Nesta gazed toward the level three stories above. Her aching body did not make for easy stealth work, but Nesta mercifully didn't encounter anyone on her way up. She knocked on the shut wood door. "Enter." Nesta opened the door to a rectangular cell of a room, occupied by a desk on the far side and two bookshelves lining both long walls. A small pallet lay to the left of the desk, a blanket and pillow neatly aligned. As if the hooded priestess with her back to Nesta sometimes couldn't be bothered to return to the dormitory to sleep. No sign of Gwyn. Nesta wondered if she'd already been dismissed for her so-called failure. But Nesta took a few steps into the room, surveying the shelf to her right before she said, "I brought the books you requested." The female hunched over her work, the scratching of her pen filling the room. "Fine." She didn't so much as turn. Nesta scanned the other shelf. There--volume eight of The Great War. Nesta had taken a silent step toward it when the priestess's head snapped up. "I didn't ask for any more books. And where's Gwyneth? She should have returned half an hour ago." Nesta asked as blandly and stupidly as she could, "Who's Gwyneth?" Merrill turned at that, and Nesta was greeted with a surprisingly young face--and a stunningly beautiful one. All the High Fae were beautiful, but Merrill made even Mor look drab. Hair white as fresh snow contrasted against the light brown of her skin, and eyes the color of a twilight sky blinked once, twice. As if focusing on the here and now and not whatever work she'd been doing. She noted Nesta's leathers, the lack of any robes or stone atop her braided hair, and demanded, "Who are you?" "Nesta." She hefted the books in her arms. "I was told to bring these to you." Volume eight of The Great War lay mere inches away. If she just stuck out a hand to her left, she could snatch it off the shelf. Swap it out with volume seven from the stack in her arms. Merrill's remarkable eyes narrowed. She looked as young as Nesta, yet an ornery sort of energy buzzed around her. "Who gave you those orders?" Nesta blinked, the portrait of stupidity. "A priestess." Merrill's full mouth tightened. "Which priestess?" Gwyn was right in her assessment of this female. Being assigned to work with her seemed more like a punishment than an honor. "I don't know. You all wear those hoods." "These are the sacred clothes of our order, girl. Not those hoods." Merrill returned to her papers. Nesta asked, because it would piss off the female, "So you didn't ask for these books, Roslin?" Merrill threw down her pen and bared her teeth. "You think I'm Roslin?" "I was told to bring these books to Roslin, and someone said your--her office was here." "Roslin is on Level Four. I am on Level Two." She said it as if it implied some sort of hierarchy. Nesta shrugged again. And might have enjoyed the hell out of it. Merrill seethed, but returned to her work. "Roslin," she muttered. "Insufferable, inane Roslin. Endless prattling." Nesta reached a stealthy hand toward the shelf to her left. Merrill whipped her head around, and Nesta snapped her arm down to her side. "Never disturb me again." Merrill pointed to the door. "Get out and shut the door behind you. If you see that silly Gwyneth, tell her she's expected here immediately." "Apologies," Nesta said, unable to keep the glimmer of annoyance out of her eyes, but Merrill was already twisting back to her desk. It had to be now. One eye on the priestess, Nesta moved. She coughed to cover the whisper of books moving. And by the time Merrill whipped her head around again, Nesta made sure she wasn't so much as looking toward the shelf. Where volume seven of The Great War stood in place of volume eight, which now sat atop the other books in Nesta's arms. Nesta's heart pounded in her entire body. Merrill hissed, "What are you lingering for? Get out." "Apologies," Nesta repeated, bowing at the waist, and left. Shut the door behind her. And only when she stood in the silent hall did she allow herself to smile. She found Gwyn the same way she'd found Merrill: by asking a priestess, this one more quiet and withdrawn than the other. So trembling and nervous that even Nesta had used her most gentle voice. And been unable to shake the heaviness in her heart as she'd walked to the first-level reading area. Across the hushed, cavernous space, it was easy to hear Gwyn's soft singing as she flitted from table to table, looking at the piles of discarded books. Trying desperately to find the missing tome. The words of Gwyn's merry song were in a language Nesta didn't know, but for a heartbeat, Nesta allowed herself to listen--to savor the pure, sweet voice that rose and fell with sinuous ease. Gwyn's hair seemed to glow brighter with her song, skin radiating a beckoning light. Drawing any listener in. But Merrill's warning clanged through the beauty of Gwyn's voice, and Nesta cleared her throat. Gwyn whirled toward her, glow fading even as her freckled face lit with surprise. "Hello again," she said. Nesta only extended volume eight of The Great War. Gwyn gasped. Nesta threw her a wicked smile. "This was shelved improperly. I swapped it with the right book." Gwyn didn't seem to need more than that, thankfully, and clutched the book to her chest like a treasure. "Thank you. You've just saved me from a terrible tongue-lashing." Nesta arched a brow at the book. "What's Merrill researching, anyway?" Gwyn frowned. "Lots of things. Merrill's brilliant. Horrible, but brilliant. When she first came here, she was obsessed with theories regarding the existence of different realms--different worlds. Living on top of each other without even knowing it. Whether there is merely one existence, our existence, or if it might be possible for worlds to overlap, occupying the Same space but separated by time and a whole bunch of other things I can't even begin to explain to you because I barely understand them myself." Nesta's brows rose. "Really?" "Some philosophers believe there are eleven worlds like that. And some believe there are as many as twenty-six, the last one being Time itself, which ..." Gwyn's voice dropped to a whisper. "Honestly, I looked at some of her early research and my eyes bled just reading her theorizing and formulas." Nesta chuckled. "I can imagine. But she's researching something else now?" "Yes, thank the Cauldron. She's writing a comprehensive history of the Valkyries." "The who?" "A clan of female warriors from another territory. They were better fighters than the Illyrians, even. The Valkyrie name was just a title, though-- they weren't a race like the Illyrians. They hailed from every type of Fae, usually recruited from birth or early childhood. They had three stages of training: Novice, Blade, and finally Valkyrie. To become one was the highest honor in their land. Their territory is gone now, subsumed into others." "And the Valkyries are gone, too?" "Yes." Gwyn sighed. "Valkyries existed for millennia. But the War-- the one five hundred years ago--wiped out most of them, and the few survivors were elderly enough to quickly fade into old age and die afterward. From the shame, legend claims. They let themselves die, rather than face the shame of their lost battle and surviving when their sisters had not." "I've never heard of them." She knew little about any of the Fae history, both by choice and because of the human world's utter lack of education on it. "The Valkyrie history and training were mostly oral, so any accounts we have are through whatever passing historians or philosophers or tradespeople wrote down. It's just bits and pieces, scattered in various books. No primary sources beyond a few precious scrolls. Merrill got it into her head years ago to begin compiling all of it into one volume. Their history, their training techniques." Nesta opened her mouth to ask more, but a clock chimed somewhere behind them. Gwyn stiffened. "I've been gone too long. She'll be furious." Merrill would indeed. Gwyn twisted toward the ramp beyond the reading area. But she paused, looking over her shoulder. "But not as mad as she would have been with the wrong book." She flashed Nesta a grin. "Thank you. I am in your debt." Nesta shifted on her feet. "It was nothing." Gwyn's eyes sparkled, and before Nesta could avoid the emotion shining there, the priestess sprinted toward Merrill's chambers, robes flying behind her. Nesta made it to her room without collapsing from sheer exhaustion or Merrill realizing she'd been duped and coming to kill her, both of which she considered to be great accomplishments. She found a hot meal waiting on the desk of her bedroom, and she'd barely sat down before she tore into the meat and bread and medley of roasted vegetables. Standing again was an effort, but she made it to her bathroom, where a hot bath was already steaming away. Getting into the tub required all her concentration, hefting one leg at a time, and she moaned with relief as the delicious heat soaked through her. She lay there until her body had loosened enough to move, and fell into the warmed sheets without bothering to put on a nightgown. There would be no trying the stairs tonight. No dreams chased her awake, either. Nesta slept and slept and slept, though she could have sworn that her door opened at one point. Could have sworn a familiar, beckoning scent filled her room. She reached toward it with a sleep-heavy hand, but it was already gone. <|title|>Chapter 14 <|startofchapter|>Cassian stood in the training ring, trying not to stare at the empty doorway. Nesta hadn't come to breakfast. He'd let it slide because she hadn't come to dinner, either, but that had been because she'd been passed out cold in her bed. Naked. Or close to it. He hadn't seen anything when he'd poked his head into her room--at least, nothing that might have scrambled his mind to the point of uselessness --but her bare shoulder had suggested enough. He'd debated waking her and insisting that she eat, but the House had stepped in. A tray had appeared beside her doorway, full of empty plates. As if the House was showing him precisely how much she'd eaten. As if the House was proud of what it had gotten her to eat. "Good work," he'd muttered into the air, and the tray vanished. He made a mental note to ask Rhys about it later--whether the House was sentient. He'd never heard his High Lord mention it in five centuries. Considering the filthy things he'd done in his bedroom, his bathroom-- fuck, in so many of the rooms here--the idea of the House watching him ... Cauldron boil him alive. So Cassian had let Nesta sleep through breakfast, hoping the House had at least brought the meal to her room. But it meant he had no idea if she'd show up. She'd made a bargain with him yesterday, and he'd come here today to see if she'd at least meet him. Prove yesterday hadn't been a fluke. Minutes dripped by. Maybe he'd been a fool to hope. To think one lesson might be enough Muffled cursing filled the stairwell beyond the archway. Each scrape of boots seemed to move slowly. He didn't dare to breathe, not as her cursing grew nearer. Inch by inch. As if it was taking her a long, long time to climb the stairs. And then she was there, hand braced on the wall, a grimace of such misery on her face that Cassian laughed. Nesta scowled, but he only said, relief wobbling his knees, "I should have realized." "Realized what?" She stopped five feet from him. "That you'd be late because you're so sore you can't climb the stairs." She pointed to the archway. "I got up here, didn't I?" "True." He winked. "I'll let that count as part of your warm-up. To get the muscles in your legs loose." "I need to sit down." "And risk not being able to get back up?" He grinned. "Not a chance." He nodded to the space beside him. "Stretches." She grumbled. But she got into position. And when Cassian began to instruct her through the movements, she listened. Two hours later, sweat poured down Nesta's body, but the aching had at least ceased. You need to get the lactic acid out of your muscles--that's what's hurting you, Cassian had said when she'd complained nonstop for the first thirty minutes. Whatever the hell that meant. She lay on the black mat, panting again, taking in the cloudy sky. It was a good deal crisper than yesterday, with tendrils of mist wandering past the ring every now and then. "When do I stop being sore?" she asked Cassian breathlessly. "Never." She turned her head toward him, about as much movement as she could manage. "Never?" "Well, it gets better," he amended, and moved down to her feet. "May I?" She had no idea what he was asking, but she nodded. Cassian lightly wrapped his hands around her ankle, his skin warm against her foot, and lifted her leg upward. She hissed as a muscle along the back of her thigh shrieked in protest, drawing so tight she gritted her teeth. "Breathe into it when I push the leg toward you," he ordered. He waited until she exhaled before he lifted her leg higher. The tightness in her thigh was considerable enough that she stopped thinking about his callused, warm hands against her bare ankle, about how he knelt between her legs, so close she turned her head away to stare at the red rock of the wall. "Again," he told her, and she exhaled, winning another inch. "Again. Cauldron, your hamstrings are tight enough to snap." Nesta obeyed, and he kept stretching her leg upward, gaining inch after inch. "The soreness does get easier," Cassian said after a moment, as if he weren't holding her leg flush to his chest. "Though I have plenty of days when I can barely walk at the end. And after a battle? I need a week to recover from that alone." "I know." His eyes found hers, and she clarified, "I mean--I saw you. In the war." Saw him hauled in unconscious, his guts hanging out. Saw him in the sky, death racing at him until she screamed for him, saved him. Saw him on the ground, broken and bleeding, the King of Hybern about to kill them both Cassian's face gentled. As if he knew what memories pelted her. "I'm a soldier, Nesta. It's part of my duties. Part of who I am." She looked back toward the wall, and he lowered her leg before starting on the other. The tightness in that hamstring was unbearable. "The more stretching you do," he explained when she squeezed her eyes shut against the pain, "the more mobility you'll gain." He nodded toward the rope ladder laid out on the floor of the training ring, where he'd had her run it up and down, knees to chest, keeping within each of the boxes, for five minutes straight. "You're nimble on your feet." "I took dancing lessons as a girl." "Really?" "We weren't always poor. Until I was fourteen, my father was as rich as a king. They called him the Prince of Merchants." He gave her a tentative smile. "And you were his princess?" Ice cracked through her. "No. Elain was his princess. Even Feyre was more his princess than I ever was." "And what were you?" "I was my mother's creature." She said it with such cold it nearly froze her tongue. Cassian said carefully, "What was she like?" "A worse version of me." His brows twitched together. "I ... She didn't want to have this conversation. Even the sunlight failed to warm her. She pulled her leg from his hands and sat up, needing the distance between them. And because it looked like he'd speak again, Nesta said the only thing she could think of. "What happened to the priestesses in Sangravah two years ago?" He went wholly still. It was terrifying. The stillness of a male ready to kill, to defend, to bloody himself. But his voice was terribly calm as he asked, "Why?" "What happened?" His mouth tightened, and he swallowed once before he said, "Hybern was looking for the Cauldron back then--for the pieces of its feet. One was hidden at the temple in Sangravah, its power used to fuel its priestesses' gifts for millennia. Hybern found out, and sent a unit of their deadliest and cruelest warriors to retrieve it." Cold rage filled his face. "They slaughtered most of the priestesses for sport. And raped any they found to their liking." Horror, icy and deep, sluiced through her. Gwyn had-- "You met one of them," he asked, "in the library?" She nodded, unable to find the words. He closed his eyes, as if reeling his rage back into himself. "I heard that Mor had brought one in. Azriel was the one who made it out there first, and he killed any of the Hybern soldiers left, but by that point ..." He shuddered. "I don't know what became of the other survivors. But I'm glad one wound up here. Safe, I mean. With people who understand, and wish to help." "So am I," Nesta said quietly. She rose on surprisingly loose legs and blinked down at them. "They don't hurt as much." "Stretching," Cassian said, as if that were answer enough. "Never forget the stretching." The Spring Court made Cassian itch. It had little to do with the bastard who ruled it, he'd realized, but rather the fact that the lands lay in perpetual spring. Which meant plumes of pollen drifting by, setting his nose to running and skin to itching, until he was certain that at least a dozen insects were slithering all over him. "Stop scratching," Rhys said without looking at him as they strode through a blooming apple orchard. No wings to be seen today. Cassian lowered his hand from his chest. "I can't help it if this place makes my skin crawl." Rhys snorted, gesturing to one of the blossoming trees above them, petals falling thick as snow. "The feared general, felled by seasonal allergies." Cassian gave an unnecessarily loud sniffle, earning a full chuckle from Rhys. Good. When he'd met his brother half an hour ago, Rhys's eyes had been distant, his face solemn. Rhys halted in the middle of the orchard, located to the north of Tamlin's once-lovely estate. The afternoon sun warmed Cassian's head, and if his entire body weren't itching so damned much, he might have lain on the velvety grass and sunned his wings. "I'd peel my skin off right now, if it'd stop the itching." "There's a sight I'd like to see," a voice said behind them, and Cassian didn't bother to look pleasant as they found Eris standing at the base of a tree five feet away. Amid the pink and white blossoms, the cold-faced Autumn Court heir looked truly faerie--as if he'd stepped out of the tree, and his one and only master was the earth itself. "Eris," Rhys purred, sliding his hands into his pockets. "A pleasure." Eris nodded at Rhys, red hair dappled in the sunlight leaking through the blossom-heavy branches. "I only have a few minutes." "You asked for this meeting," Cassian said, crossing his arms. "So out with it." Eris shot him a look laced with distaste. "I?m sure you've reported my offer to Rhysand." "He did," Rhys said, dark hair ruffled by a soft, sighing breeze. As if even the wind itself loved to touch him. "I didn't appreciate the threats." Eris shrugged. "I merely wanted to make myself clear." "Spit it out, Eris," Cassian said. One more minute here, and the itching would drive him mad. He wished anyone else could have come in his stead. But he'd been appointed by Rhys to deal with the bastard. General to general. Eris had asked for the meeting this morning, naming this location as neutral ground. Thankfully, its lord had no interest in patrolling who entered these lands. Eris kept his eyes on Rhys. "I assume your shadowsinger is off doing what he does best." Rhys said nothing, revealed nothing. Cassian followed his lead. Eris went on with a shrug, "We are wasting our time, gathering information rather than acting." His amber eyes gleamed in the shade of the apple tree. "Regardless of the death-lord pulling their strings, if the human queens intend to be a thorn in our sides, we could simply deal with them now. All of them. My father would be forced to abandon his plans. And I'm sure you could invent some reason that has nothing to do with me or what I've told you to excuse their ... removal." Cassian blurted, "You want us to take out the queens?" It was Eris's turn to say nothing. Rhys, too, remained silent. Cassian threw them an incredulous look. "We kill those queens and we'll be in a greater mess than ever. Wars have been started for less. Killing even one queen, let alone four, would be a catastrophe. Everyone would know who'd done it, regardless of the reasons we'd invent to justify it." Rhys angled his head. "Only if we're sloppy." "You're kidding," Cassian said to his brother. "Half-kidding," Rhys said, throwing him a dry smile. It didn't quite meet his eyes, though. A grave distance lurked there. But Rhys turned to Eris. "Tempting as it may be to take the easy way out, I agree with my brother. It's a simple solution to our current problems, and to thwarting your father, but it would create a conflict far greater than any we're anticipating." Rhys surveyed Eris. "You know that already." Eris still said nothing. Cassian glanced between them, watching Rhys piece it together. Rhys asked solemnly, "Why does your father want to start a war so badly?" "Why does anyone go to war?" Eris reached out a long, slender hand, letting the falling petals gather there. "Why does Vallahan not sign the treaty? The borders of this new world have not yet been set." "Beron doesn't have the military strength to control the Autumn Court and a territory on the continent," Cassian countered. Eris's fingers closed around the petals. "Who says he wants land on the continent?" He surveyed the orchard--as if to make a point. Silence fell. Rhys murmured, "Beron knows another war that pits Fae against Fae would be catastrophic. Many of us would be wiped out entirely. Especially ..." Rhys tilted his head back to take in the apple blossoms. "Especially those of us who are weakened. And when the dust settles, there would be at least one court left vacant, its lands bare for the taking." Eris looked toward the hills beyond the orchard, green and gold and glowing in the sunlight. "They say a beast prowls these lands now. A beast with keen green eyes and golden fur. Some people think the beast has forgotten his other shape, so long has he spent in his monstrous form. And though he roams these lands, he does not see or care for the neglect he passes, the lawlessness, the vulnerability. Even his manor has fallen into disrepair, half-eaten by thorns, though rumors fly that he himself destroyed it." "Enough with the double-talk," Cassian said. "Tamlin's staying in his beast form and is finally getting the punishment he deserves. So what?" Eris and Rhys held each other's gaze. Eris said, "You've been trying to bring Tamlin back for a while. But he isn't getting better, is he?" Rhys's jaw tightened, his only sign of displeasure. Eris nodded knowingly. "I can delay my father from allying with Briallyn and starting this war for a little while. But not forever. A few months, perhaps. So I'd suggest your shadowsinger hurry. Find a way to deal with Briallyn, find out what she wants and why. Discover whether Koschei is indeed involved. At best, we'll stop them all. At worst, we'll have proof to justify any conflict and hopefully win allies to our side, avoiding the bloodshed that would carve up these lands once more. My father would think twice before standing against an army of superior strength and size." "You've turned into quite the little traitor," Rhys said, stars winking out in his eyes. "I told you years ago what I wanted, High Lord," Eris said. To seize his father's throne. "Why?" Cassian asked. Eris grasped what he meant, apparently, because flame sizzled in his eyes. "For the same reason I left Morrigan untouched at the border." "You left her there to suffer and die," Cassian spat. His Siphons flickered, and all he could see was the male's pretty face, all he could feel was his own fist, aching to make contact. Eris sneered. "Did I? Perhaps you should ask Morrigan whether that is true. I think she finally knows the answer." Cassian's head spun, and the relentless itching resumed, like fingers trailing along his spine, his legs, his scalp. Eris added before winnowing away, "Tell me when the shadowsinger returns." Petals streamed past, thick as a mountain blizzard, and Cassian turned to Rhys. But Rhys's gaze had gone distant--once again distracted. He stared toward the faraway hills, as if he could see the beast that roamed there. Cassian had witnessed Rhys going deep into his own head often enough. Knew his brother was prone to withdrawing while appearing perfectly fine. But this level of distraction ... "What's the matter with you?" Cassian scratched his scalp. This fucking place. Rhys blinked, as if he'd forgotten Cassian stood beside him. "Nothing." He flicked a petal off the gauntlet of his leathers. "Nothing." "Liar." Cassian tucked in his wings. But Rhys wasn't listening again. He didn't say a word before he winnowed them home. Nesta stared into the reddish gloom of the staircase. She'd been just as sore as yesterday while working in the library, but thankfully Merrill hadn't come to rip into her about the swapped book. She spoke to no one but Clotho, who had given her only perfunctory greetings. So Nesta had shelved in the dimness, surrounded by whispers of rustling paper, only pausing to wipe the dust from her hands. Priestesses drifted by like ghosts, but Nesta had no glimpse of coppery-brown hair and large teal eyes. She honestly didn't know why she wished to see Gwyn. What Cassian had told her about the attack on the temple wasn't the sort of thing she had any right to bring up. But Gwyn didn't seek her out, and Nesta didn't dare go up to the second level to knock on Merrill's door to see if Gwyn was there. So it was silence and soreness, and the roaring in her head. Maybe it was the roaring that had brought her to the stairwell, instead of to her bedroom to wash up. The gloom beckoned, challenging her like the open maw of some great beast. A wyrm, poised to devour her whole. Her legs moved of their own accord, and her foot landed upon the first step. Down and down, around and around. Nesta ignored the step with the five holes embedded in it. Made a point not to look down as she carefully stepped over it. Silence and roaring and nothing nothing nothing-- Nesta made it to step one hundred fifty before her legs nearly gave out again. Sparing herself another tumble, she panted on the steps, leaning her head against the stone. In that roaring silence, she waited for the stairs to stop twisting around her. And when the world was again still, she made the long, horrible climb back up. The House had dinner waiting on her desk, along with a book. Apparently, it had noted her request for a book the other day and deemed The Great War too dull. The title of this one was suitably smutty. "I didn't know you had dirty taste," Nesta said wryly. The House only responded by running a bath. "Dinner, bath, and a book," Nesta said aloud, shaking her head in something close to awe. "It's perfect. Thank you." The House said nothing, but when she stepped into her bathroom, she found that it wasn't an ordinary bath. The House had added an assortment of oils that smelled of rosemary and lavender. She breathed in the heady, beautiful scent, and sighed. "I think you might be my only friend," Nesta said, then groaned her way into the tub's welcoming warmth. The House was apparently so pleased by her words that as soon as she lay back, a tray appeared across the width of the tub. Laden with a massive piece of chocolate cake. <|title|>Chapter 15 <|startofchapter|>The seventh level of the library was unnerving. Standing at the stone railing on Level Six, clutching a book to be shelved, Nesta stared into the darkness mere feet from her, so thick that it hovered like a layer of fog, veiling the levels below. Books dwelled down there. She knew that, but she'd never been sent down to those dark levels. Had never seen one of the priestesses venture past the spot where she now stood, peering over the railing. Ahead of her, the darkness beckoned down the ramp. Like it was an entry into some dark pit of hell. Hybern's twin Ravens were dead. Did their blood still stain the ground far below? Or had Rhysand and Bryaxis wiped even that trace of them away? The darkness seemed to rise and fall. Like it was breathing. The hair on her arms rose. Bryaxis was gone. Set loose into the world. Even Feyre and Rhysand's hunting hadn't retrieved the thing that was Fear itself. And yet the darkness remained. It pulsed, tendrils of shadow drifting upward. She'd stared too long into its depths. It might gaze back. But she didn't move from the rail. Couldn't remember how she'd come down this far, or which book she still held in her hands. There was night, and there was the darkness of extinguishing a candle, and then there was this. Not only the true absence of light, but ... a womb. The womb from which all life had come and would return, neither good nor evil, only dark, dark, dark. Nesta. Her name drifted to her as if rising from the depths of some black ocean. Nesta. It slid along her bones, her blood. She had to pull back. Pull away. The darkness pulsed, beckoning. "Nesta." She whirled, nearly dropping the book over the edge. Gwyn was standing there, eyeing her. "What are you doing?" Heart thundering, Nesta twisted toward the darkness, but--it was only that. Murky darkness, through which she could now barely make out the sublevels beneath. As if the thick, impenetrable black had vanished. "It ... I Gwyn, arms laden with books, strode to her side and surveyed the dark. Nesta waited for the chiding, the ridicule and disbelief, but Gwyn only asked gravely, "What did you see?" "Why?" Nesta asked. "Do you see things in that darkness?" Her voice was thin. "No, but some of the others do. They say the dark has trailed them. Right to their doors." Gwyn shivered. "I saw darkness," Nesta managed to say. Her heart would not calm. "Pure darkness." The likes of which she had not seen since she'd been inside the Cauldron. Gwyn glanced between Nesta and the chasm below. "We should go higher." Nesta lifted the book still in her shaking arms. "I need to shelve this." "Leave it," Gwyn said, enough authority lacing her words that Nesta dropped the book onto a dark wood table. The priestess put a hand to Nesta's back, escorting her up the sloping ramp. "Don't look behind," Gwyn muttered out of the corner of her mouth. "What level is your cart on?" "Four." She began to twist her head to gaze over her shoulder, but Gwyn pinched her. "Don't look behind," Gwyn murmured again. "Ts it following?" "No, but ..." Gwyn's swallow was audible. "I can feel something. Like a cat. Small and clever and curious. It's watching." "If you're joking--" Gwyn reached into the pocket of her pale robe and pulled out the blue stone of the priestesses. It fluttered with light, like the sun on a shallow sea. "Hurry now," she whispered, and they increased their pace, reaching the fifth level. No other priestesses approached, and there was no one to witness Gwyn urging, "Keep going." The stone in her hand glimmered. They made another loop upward, and just as they reached the fourth level, that presence--that sensation of something at their backs--eased. They waited until they'd reached Nesta's cart before Gwyn dumped her books on the ground and flung herself into the nearest tufted armchair. Her hands trembled, but the blue stone had gone dormant again. Nesta had to swallow twice before she could say, "What is that?" "It's an Invoking Stone." Gwyn unfurled her fingers, revealing the gem within her hand. "Similar to the Siphons of the Illyrians, except that the power of the Mother flows through it. We cannot use it for harm, only healing and protection. It was shielding us." "No--I mean, that darkness." Gwyn's eyes matched her stone almost perfectly, right down to the shadows that now veiled her expression. "They say the being that dwelled down there is gone. But I believe some piece of it might have lingered. Or at the very least altered the darkness itself." "It didn't feel like that. It felt ... older." Gwyn's brows rose. "Are you an adept in such things?" There was no condescension in the words, only curiosity. "I..." Nesta blinked. "Do you not know who I am?" "I know you are the High Lady's sister. That you slew the King of Hybern." Gwyn's face grew solemn, haunted. "That you, like Lady Feyre, were once mortal. Human." "I was Made by the Cauldron. At the King of Hybern's order." Gwyn traced her fingers over the smooth dome of the Invoking Stone. It rippled with light at the touch. "I didn't know such a thing was possible." "My other sister, Elain--we were forced into the Cauldron and turned High Fae." Nesta swallowed again. "It ... imparted some of itself to me." Gwyn considered the railing, the open drop into the darkness beyond it. "Like calls to like." "Yes." Gwyn shook her head, hair swaying. "Well, perhaps don't go down to Level Six again." "It's my job to shelve the books." "Make it known to Clotho and she'll ensure those books are given to others." "It seems cowardly." "I don't wish to learn what might come crawling out of that darkness if you, Cauldron-Made, fear it. Especially if it's ... drawn to you." Nesta sank into the chair beside Gwyn's. "I'm not a warrior." "You slew the King of Hybern," Gwyn repeated. "With the shadowsinger's knife." "Luck and rage," Nesta admitted. "And I had made a promise to kill him for what he did to me and my sister." A priestess walked by, beheld them lounging there, and scurried off. Her fear left a tang in the air like burned food. Gwyn sighed after her. "That's Riven. She's still uncomfortable with any manner of contact with strangers." "When did she arrive?" "Eighty years ago." Nesta started. But sorrow filled Gwyn's eyes as she explained, "We do not gossip about each other here. Our stories remain our own to tell or to keep. Only Riven, Clotho, and the High Lord know what happened to her. She will not speak of it." "And there has been no help for her?" "I am not privy to that information. I know of the resources available to us, but it is not my business whether Riven has utilized them." From the worry that now etched Gwyn's face, Nesta knew she had used those services. Or had at least tried. Gwyn tucked her hair behind her arched ears. "I meant to find you yesterday to thank you again for switching out that book, but I got tied up with Merrill's work." She inclined her head. "I'm in your debt." Nesta rubbed at a persistent cramp in her thigh. "It was nothing." Gwyn noted the movement. "What's wrong with your leg?" Nesta gritted her teeth. "Nothing. I'm training every morning with Cassian." She had no idea if Gwyn knew of him, so she clarified, "The High Lord's general--" "I know who he is. Everyone knows who he is." It was impossible to read Gwyn's face. "Why do you train with him?" Nesta brushed a clump of dust off her knee. "Let's just say that I was presented with several options, all designed to ... curb my behavior. Training with Cassian in the morning and working here in the afternoon was the most palatable." "Why do you need to curb your behavior?" Gwyn truly didn't know--about what a horrible, wretched waste she'd become. "It's a long story." Gwyn seemed to read her reluctance. "What manner of training is it? Combat?" "Right now, it's a whole lot of balancing and stretching." She nodded toward Nesta's leg. "Such things are painful?" "They are when you're as out of shape as I am." A pathetic weakling. Two more priestesses passed by, and apparently the presence of one of them was enough to send Gwyn launching to her feet. "Well, I should be getting back to Merrill," she declared, any trace of solemnity gone. She nodded to the drop into the pit. "Don't go looking for trouble." Gwyn turned on her heel, blue flashing in her hand. The sight of that blue made Nesta blurt, "Why don't you wear that stone on your head like the others?" Gwyn pocketed the gem. "Because I don't deserve to." "Is this really all we'll be doing?" Nesta demanded the next morning in the training ring as she rose from what Cassian had called a curtsy-squat. "Balance and stretching?" Cassian crossed his arms. "So long as you keep having shit balance, yes." "I don't fall that often." Only every few minutes. He motioned for her to do another squat. "You still keep your weight on your right leg when you stand. It opens up your hip, and your right foot rolls slightly to the side. Your entire center is off. Until we correct that, you're not starting anything more intense, no matter how nimble you are on your feet. You'd only injure yourself." Nesta puffed out a breath as she did another squat, her right leg sweeping out behind her left as she ducked low. Fire quivered along her left thigh and knee. How many curtsies had she practiced under her mother's sharp eye? She'd forgotten they were this demanding. "Like you stand so perfectly." "I do." Unflinching arrogance laced every word. "I've been training since I was a child. I was never given the chance to learn how to stand incorrectly. You have twenty-five years of bad habits to break." She rose from the squat, legs shaking. She had half a mind to call in their bargain and order him to never make her do another squat again. "And you truly enjoy this endless exercising and training?" "Two more, and then I'll tell you." Grumbling, Nesta obeyed. Only because she was tired of being as weak as a Mewling kitten, as he'd called her several nights ago. When she was done, Cassian said, "Get some water." The midmorning sun beat down on them relentlessly. "I don't need you to tell me when to drink," she snapped. "Then go ahead and faint." Nesta met his hazel stare, the no-nonsense face, and drank the water. To stop her head spinning, she told herself. When she'd gulped down a glass, Cassian said, "I was born to an unwed female in a settlement that makes Windhaven look like a tolerant, welcoming paradise. She was shunned for bearing a child out of wedlock, and forced to give birth to me alone in a tent in the dead of winter." Horror lurched through her. She'd known Cassian was low-born, but that level of cruelty because of it ... "What of your father?" "You mean the piece of shit who forced himself on her and then went back to his wife and family?" Cassian let out a cold laugh that she rarely heard. "There were no consequences for him." "There never are," Nesta said coolly. She blocked out the image of Tomas's face. "There are here," Cassian growled, as if he sensed the direction of her thoughts. Cassian gestured to the city below, hidden by the mountain and the House blocking the view. "Rhys changed the laws. Here in the Night Court, and in Illyria." His face hardened further. "But it still requires the survivor to come forward. And in places like Illyria, they make life a living hell for any female who does. They deem it a betrayal." "That's outrageous." "We're all Fae. Forget the High Fae or lesser Fae bullshit. We're all immortal or close to it. Change comes slowly for us. What humans accomplish in decades takes us centuries. Longer, if you live in Illyria." "Then why do you bother with the Illyrians?" "Because I fought like hell to prove my worth to them." His eyes glittered. "To prove that my mother brought some good into this world." "Where is she now?" He'd never spoken of her. His eyes shuttered in a way she had not witnessed before. "I was taken away from her when I was three. Thrown out into the snow. And in her so- called disgraced state, she became prey to other monsters." Nesta's stomach twisted with each word. "She did their backbreaking labor until she died, alone and ..." His throat worked. "I was at Windhaven by then. I wasn't strong enough to return to help her. To bring her somewhere safe. Rhys wasn't yet High Lord, and none of us could do anything." Nesta wasn't entirely certain how they'd wound up speaking of this. Apparently, Cassian realized it as well. "It's a story for another time. But what I meant to try to explain is that through it all, through every awful thing, the training centered me. Guided me. When I had a shit day, when I was spat on or pummeled or shunned, when I led armies and lost good warriors, when Rhys was taken by Amarantha--through all of that, the training remained. You said the other day the breathing helped you. It helps me, too. It helped Feyre." She watched the wall rise in his eyes, word after word. As if he waited for her to rip it down. Rip him down. "Make of that what you will, but it's true." Oily shame slithered through her. She'd done that--brought this level of defensiveness to him. Heaviness weighed on her. Started gnawing on her insides. So Nesta said, "Show me another set of movements." Cassian scanned her face for a heartbeat, his gaze still shuttered, and began his next demonstration. The House had a taste for romance novels. Nesta stayed up later than she should have to finish the one it had left the day before, and when she returned to her room that evening, another was waiting. "Don't tell me you somehow read these." She leafed through the volume on her nightstand. In answer, two more books thumped on the surface. Each one utterly filthy. Nesta let out a small chuckle. "It must get awfully dull up here." A third book plopped atop the others. Nesta laughed again, a rusty, hoarse sound. She couldn't remember the last time she'd laughed. A true, belly-deep laugh. Maybe before her mother had died. She'd certainly had nothing to laugh about once they'd fallen into poverty. Nesta nodded toward the desk. "No dinner tonight?" Her bedroom door only swung open to reveal the dimly lit hallway. "I've had enough of him for one day." She'd barely been able to speak to Cassian for the rest of their lesson, unable to stop thinking of how he'd put up a wall without her so much as saying a word, anticipating that she would go after him, assuming that she was so awful she couldn't have a normal conversation. That she'd mock him about his mother and their pain. "I'd rather stay here." The door opened wider. Nesta sighed. Her stomach ached with hunger. "You're as much a busybody as the rest of them," she muttered, and aimed for the dining room. Cassian sat alone at the table, the setting sun gilding his black hair in golds and reds, shining through his beautiful wings. For a heartbeat, she understood Feyre's urge to paint things--to capture sights like this, preserve them forever. "How was the library?" he asked as she claimed the seat across from him. "Nothing tried to eat me today, so it was fine." A plate of roast pork and green beans appeared with a glass of water before her. He'd gone still, though. "Something tried to eat you on another day?" "Well, it didn't get close enough to try, but that was the general impression I received." He blinked, his Siphons glowing. "Tell me." Nesta wondered if she'd said something wrong, but she related the incident with the darkness and finished with Gwyn's assistance. She hadn't seen the priestess after that, but at the end of the day there had been a note on her cart that said, Just a friendly reminder to stay away from the lowest levels! Nesta had snorted, balling up the note, but she'd kept it in her pocket. Across from her, Cassian's face was pale. "You saw Bryaxis once," Nesta said into the silence. "A few times," he breathed. His skin had turned greenish. "I know we should keep hunting for Bryaxis. It's not a good thing that it's out in the world. But I don't think I could endure encountering it again." "What was it like?" His eyes met hers. "My worst nightmares. And I'm not talking about petty phobias. I mean my deepest, most primal fears. I've put some of the worst, most vile monsters into the Prison, but these were monsters in every sense of the word. It's ... I don't think anyone can understand unless they've seen it." He glanced at her again, and she could tell he was bracing for her venom. Monster--she was a monster. The knowledge cut and sliced deep. But she said, hoping to let him see she wouldn't pry into his business just to hurt him, "What manner of creatures did you put in the Prison?" Cassian took a bite of food. A good sign that this, at least, was acceptable territory. "When you lived in the human world, you had legends of the dread beasts and faeries who would slaughter you if they ever breached the wall, didn't you? Things that slithered through open windows to drink the blood of children? Things that were so wicked, so cruel there was no hope against their evil?" The hair on her neck rose. "Yes." Those stories had always unnerved and petrified her. "They were based on truth. Based on ancient, near-primordial beings who existed here before the High Fae split into courts, before the High Lords. Some call them the First Gods. They were beings with almost no physical form, but a keen, vicious intelligence. Humans and Fae alike were their prey. Most were hunted and driven into hiding or imprisonment ages ago. But some remained, lurking in forgotten corners of the land." He swallowed another mouthful. "When I was nearing three hundred years old, one of them appeared again, crawling out of the roots of a mountain. Before he went into the Prison and confinement weakened him, Lanthys could turn into wind and rip the air from your lungs, or turn into rain and drown you on dry land; he could peel your skin from your body with a few movements. He never revealed his true form, but when I faced him, he chose to appear as swirling mist. He fathered a race of faeries that still plague us, who thrived under Amarantha's reign--the Bogge. But the Bogge are lesser, mere shadows compared to Lanthys. If there is such a thing as evil incarnate, it is him. He has no mercy, no sense of right or wrong. There is him, and there is everyone else, and we are all his prey. His methods of killing are creative and slow. He feasts on fear and pain as much as the flesh itself." Her blood chilled. "How did you trap such a thing?" Cassian tapped a spot on his neck where a scar slashed beneath his ear. "I quickly learned I could never beat him in combat or magic. Still have the scar here to prove it." Cassian smiled faintly. "So I used his arrogance against him. Flattered and taunted him into trapping himself in a mirror bound with ash wood. I bet him the mirror would contain him--and Lanthys bet wrong. He got out of the mirror, of course, but by that time, I'd dumped his miserable self into the Prison." Nesta lifted a brow. He cut her a sharp smile that didn't meet his eyes and said, "Not just a brute after all." No, he wasn't, even though she'd said as much to him, but she'd never once believed it-- Cassian went on, "Of all the occupants of the Prison, Lanthys is the one I dread finding a way out." "Would such a thing ever happen?" "I don't think so, thank the Cauldron. That Prison is inescapable. Unless you're Amren." Nesta didn't want to talk about Amren. Or think about her. "You said you put others in." Half of her didn't want to know. He shrugged, as if it were of no consequence that he had done such remarkable things. "Seven-headed Lubia, who made the mistake of surfacing from the caves of the deep ocean to prey on girls along the western coast. Blue Annis, who was a terror to behold--cobalt skin and iron claws and, like Lubia, a taste for female flesh. Lubia, at least, swallowed her prey swiftly. Annis ... she took longer. Annis was like Lanthys in that regard." His throat bobbed, and he tugged back the collar of his shirt to reveal another scar: the horrific, thick one above his left pectoral. She'd spied it the other day in the training ring. "That's all that remains of it now, but Annis had shredded through my chest with those iron claws and was nearly at my heart when Azriel intervened. So I suppose her capture is shared between the two of us." He drummed his fingers on the table. "And then there was--" "I've heard enough." Her words were breathless. "I'll never sleep tonight." She shook her head, taking another bite of food. "I don't know how you can, having faced all that." He leaned back in his seat. "You learn to live with it. How to block the horrors from your present thoughts." He added a touch quietly, "But they still lurk there. In the back of your mind." She wished she knew how to do such things: to push all the thoughts that devoured her behind some wall, or into a hole within her, so she could bury them deep. Cassian asked her, voice still quiet, "The darkness in the library--do you think it reacted to you specifically?" When she said nothing, he pressed, "Because of your powers?" "I don't have any powers," she lied. Training with Amren hadn't done a lick to help her understand them, anyway. "Then who left that handprint on the stairs?" She didn't bother to look pleasant. "Maybe Lucien. He's got fire in his veins." "He said your fire was different from his. That it burned cold, somehow." "Perhaps you should lock me up in that Prison, then." He set down his fork. "I'm just asking you a question." "Does it matter if I have powers?" Cassian shook his head in what seemed to be a mixture of admiration and disgust. "You might have been born human, but you're pure faerie. Answering questions with questions, evading an honest answer." "I can't tell if that's a compliment or not." "It's not." His teeth flashed. "The kind of powers you have aren't the sort that should sit idly by. They need an outlet, and training--" "Balancing and stretching?" His jaw clenched. "What happened with you and Amren?" "Why so many questions tonight?" "Because we're talking like normal people, and I want to know. About all of it." Nesta rose from the table, aiming for the door. "What does it matter to you?" "Let's not retread old territory, Nes." She threw over a shoulder, "I hadn't realized we'd moved beyond it." "Bullshit." "Here's the part where you remind me everyone hates me, and I leave." Cassian shot from his seat, blocking her path to the door in three strides. She'd forgotten how fast he was, how graceful despite his size. He glowered down at her. "It never mattered to me whether you took half the Cauldron's power or a drop. It still doesn't matter." "Why?" Nesta couldn't stop herself from asking. "Why do you even bother?" His features turned stark. "Why did you stay at my side when we went up against the King of Hybern during that last battle?" As if that were an answer. She couldn't bear it, this talk, the expression on his face. "Because I was a stupid fool." She shoved past him. "What is it you're afraid of?" he asked, following her into the hall. She drew up short. "I'm not afraid of anything." "Liar." Nesta turned slowly. Let him see every bit of anger rippling through her. Cassian's eyes gleamed in savage satisfaction. His Siphons flared, casting red light upon the stones, like watery blood had been spilled. His mouth twisted to the side in a crooked, mocking grin. "Do you know how your eyes glow when your power rises to the surface? Like molten steel. Like silver fire." He'd done it on purpose--riled her like this. To get her to show her hand. Nesta's fingers curled into claws at her sides. She took a step toward him. Cassian held his ground. So she took another step. Another. Until they were close enough that a heaving breath would have had her chest brushing his. Until she was baring her teeth at his still-smirking face. Cassian surveyed her. Gazed into her eyes and breathed, "Beautiful." He didn't halt the hand she laid on his muscled chest. Or when she pushed against that chest, backing him into the wall, his wings splaying on impact. He just stared and stared at her, marveling--hungry. Nesta didn't, couldn't, move as Cassian leaned to whisper in her ear, "The first time I saw that look on your face, you were still human. Still human, and I nearly went to my knees before you." His breath caressed the shell of her ear and she couldn't stop her eyes from fluttering shut. His smile brushed against her temple. "Your power is a song, and one I've waited a very, very long time to hear, Nesta." Her back arched slightly at the way he said her name, the way he bit out the second syllable. Like he was imagining clamping his teeth down on other parts of her. But only her hand bridged their bodies. Only her hand, now bunching up his shirt, his thundering heartbeat pulsing beneath it. Until Cassian lowered his face an inch, and grazed the tip of his nose along her neck. Beneath her hand, his chest heaved upward as he inhaled a great, greedy breath of her scent. Too far. She shouldn't have let herself go this far with him, let him this close. Yet she couldn't withdraw. Couldn't do anything but let him brush his nose over her neck again. The urge to press her body into his, to feel his warmth and hardness grinding into her, nearly overrode every rational thought. Cassian's hands remained at his sides, though. As if waiting for her to give permission. Nesta pulled her head back, away--just enough to see his features. Her knees nearly wobbled at the desire blazing in them. Liquid, unrelenting desire, all fixed upon her. She couldn't get a breath down as she drowned in that stare. As low, sensitive parts of her tightened and began throbbing, her breasts becoming heavy and aching. His nostrils flared, scenting that, too. She couldn't. She couldn't do this to him. To herself. Couldn't, couldn't, couldn't-- Nesta began to withdraw her hand from his chest, but he slid his own atop it. Rubbed his thumb over the back of her hand, and just that graze of callused flesh had her grinding her teeth, unable to think, to breathe -- Cassian whispered in her ear, "Do you know what I'm going to think of tonight?" A small sound must have come out of her, because he grinned as he stepped to the side. Let go of her hand. The absence of his warmth, his scent, was like a bucket of ice water. He smiled, nothing but wickedness and challenge. "I'm going to think of that look on your face." He took another step down the hall. "I'm always thinking of that look on your face." e: She couldn't sleep. The sheets chafed, strangled her, smothered her with their heat until sweat ran down her body. I'm always thinking of that look on your face. Nesta lay in the darkness, her breathing uneven, her body flushed and aching. She'd barely been able to focus on reading when she'd returned to her room. And she'd been tossing and turning in bed for what had felt like hours now. I'm always thinking of that look on your face. She could see it: Cassian in his own bed, sprawled out like a dark king, gripping himself, pumping hard-- She managed to whisper into the room, "Come back at dawn." She didn't know if the House obeyed. Didn't find out if it understood why she wanted privacy as she traced her hand up her nightgown, the slide of silk against her skin nearly unbearable. She moaned into her pillow as her fingers slid between her legs, instantly slippery with the wetness pooled there, which hadn't gone away since she'd been left standing in that hallway. Her hips arched into the touch, and she gritted her teeth, letting out a long hiss as she dragged her fingers down her aching, throbbing center. I'm always thinking of that look on your face. She slid her fingers in deep, writhing at the intrusion, unable to stop seeing Cassian's face, that half smile, that light in his eyes. The powerful body and beautiful wings. She withdrew her fingers nearly to their tips, and as she plunged them back in, it was Cassian's hand she pictured there, felt there. Cassian's other hand that rose to clasp her breast, squeezing hard, just the way she liked it, a sharp, slight edge of pain to heighten the pleasure. It was Cassian's hand she rode, biting her lip to keep her moaning contained. It was Cassian's hand that brought her over the edge and into a release so intense she nearly cried out. It was Cassian's hand that slid into her, over and over again, release after release, until Nesta lay wrung out and panting upon the bed, with only the darkness to hold her. <|title|>Chapter 16 <|startofchapter|>Cassian hadn't slept well. It was hard to sleep well when he'd been so aroused he'd had to pleasure himself not once but three times just to calm the hell down enough to close his eyes. But he awoke before dawn aching for her, her scent still in his nose, and another release had barely taken the edge off. He'd told her exactly what he planned to do last night, but meeting Nesta's stare over the breakfast table the next morning was more uncomfortable than he'd anticipated. She'd beaten him to the table, and had been reading a book while she ate. It lay closed now, but from the spine, he gleaned that it was one of the romances she favored so much. To break the silence, Cassian asked, "What are you reading?" Color stained Nesta's pale cheeks. And he could have sworn it took an effort of will for her to meet his eyes, too. "A romance." "I gathered that. What's this one about?" She dropped her gaze quickly. But the blush remained. He knew it had nothing to do with the novel. But she lifted her eyes to him again, spine stiffening. Like she was working hard as hell to make herself meet his stare. Her fingers clenched her fork. And when he looked at them, she pulled her hand under the table. As if it were blazing with proof. His blood heated as he realized the blush, her embarrassment ... He made himself take deep, steadying breaths. They had to train together for the next two hours. Being at attention wasn't only unhelpful, but inappropriate in the training ring. It didn't make him stop picturing it: that hand between her legs, her body as aching for release as his had been. The way she'd probably bitten her lip, just as he had, to keep from crying out. His cock grew hard, pushing at his pants to the point of pain. Cassian shifted in his seat, trying to free up any space for himself. It only succeeded in making the hard seam rub against his cock, the friction enough to make him grit his teeth. Training. They had training. "The book," Nesta said, a bit breathlessly, "is about ..." Her nostrils flared and her eyes went a bit unfocused. "A book." "Interesting," Cassian murmured. "Sounds great." He had to get out of this room. Had to sort his shit out before he went upstairs. The heat between them didn't belong in the training ring. Where the fuck was Az when he needed him? Cassian had played buffer for Mor for years--where the fuck was she when he needed her? But he couldn't rise from his chair. If he did, Nesta would see precisely how she'd affected him. That is, if she hadn't already scented it--and understood the shift in his smell. And if she looked at the bulge in his pants with that heat she'd had in her eyes last night, the heat he'd come to just picturing her, he might very well make a fool of himself. It was a risk he was willing to take. Had to take, before he laid her flat on the table and removed their clothing piece by piece. Cassian shot out of his chair, muttering, "I'll see you there," and left. "The book," Nesta repeated to herself, staring at her porridge, "is about a book." She cupped her forehead in her hands. "Idiot." At least Cassian hadn't seemed to be listening. But whatever willingness had been in his eyes last night seemed reluctant today, as if he couldn't help--didn't want that heat between them, that tension. He'd practically run out of the room to avoid her. Training would be awful. He was waiting in the ring, the portrait of a swaggering warrior. Nesta didn't dare look at his pants. To what she could have sworn she'd glimpsed straining at the stays and buttons when he'd fled the room. But if he appeared unruffled, then fine. She'd match him in it. Nesta rolled her shoulders, approaching him. "More stretching and balance?" "No." Their eyes met, and there was only clear, determined calm--and a challenge. "We'll do the warm-up, and then we're moving into some core work." She gaped. Her ... core? "Abdominals," he clarified, and pink washed across his face. He cleared his throat. "Filthy mind." He flicked her cheek. "Too much smut." She batted him away and gestured to the muscles hidden beneath his shirt. "You're going to make me look like that?" His low laugh rippled over her body. "No one can look like this but me, Nes." Arrogant ass. "Rhysand and Azriel do," she said sweetly. "I've got one or two muscles on them." "I don't see it." He winked. "Maybe they're in other places." She couldn't help it. Couldn't stop it. Not the flash of desire, but the smile that overtook her face. She huffed a laugh. Cassian stared like he hadn't seen her before. His shock was enough that Nesta dropped her smile. "All right," she said. "Warm-up, then abdominals." She hated abdominal exercises. Mostly because she couldn't do them. "I knew you didn't have much muscle," Cassian observed as Nesta lay belly-down on the ground, having collapsed onto her front after trying to hold a full-body plank, "but this is absolutely pathetic." "Aren't you supposed to be my inspirational teacher?" "You can't do more than five seconds." She spat, "And how long can you do?" "Five minutes." Nesta pushed herself onto her elbows. "I'm sorry if I haven't had five hundred years of core work." "I asked you to hold that plank for thirty seconds." She shoved onto her knees, stomach aching. He'd had her doing curls upward, then leg extensions while lying on her back, and then lifting a smooth five-pound rock over her head while she'd tried to raise herself from lying prone into a sitting position using only her stomach muscles. She hadn't been able to do more than one or two of any of them before her body gave out. No amount of will or grit could make it move. "This is torture." Bracing her hands on her knees, Nesta pointed to the ring. "If you're so perfect, do everything you just ordered me to do." Cassian snorted. "A ten-year-old Illyrian boy could do it in the span of a few minutes." "Then do your big, tough male routine." He smirked. "All right. You want to mouth off, then I'll show you my big, tough male routine." He slung his shirt off. Tied back his hair. And this was a different sort of torture. To watch him go through the same exercises, only harder, heavier, faster. To watch the muscles of his stomach ripple, muscles everywhere ripple. To watch sweat glisten and then run down his golden body, over his tattoos, along the eight-pointed star of their bargain on his spine before sliding into the waist of his pants. But he'd been professional during their lesson. Utterly professional and distant, as if this training ring was sacred to him. Nesta couldn't tear her eyes away as he completed his exercises, panting softly. She tried not to wonder if that panting was how he'd sounded last night when he'd pleasured himself. But Cassian's hazel eyes were clear. Triumphant. In another age, another world, he might have been deemed a warrior- god by mortals. After what he'd told her about the monsters he'd put in the Prison, he might very well be considered a great hero in this age. The kind that would one day be whispered about around a fire. People would name their children after him. Warriors would want to be him. A fine warrior would be known as Cassian reborn. She'd called him a brute. "What?" Cassian wiped the sweat from his face. She asked, to distract herself from her thoughts, "Are there truly no female fighting units amongst the Illyrians?" She hadn't seen any during the war. His smile faded. "We tried once and it failed spectacularly. So, no. There aren't." "Because Illyrians are backward and horrible." He winced. "Have you been talking to Az?" "Just my observations." He untied his hair, the thick, straight locks falling around his face. "The Illyrians ... I told you. Progress is slow. It's an ongoing goal of ours--me and Rhys, I mean." "It's that hard for the females to become warriors?" "It's not just the training. It's running the social gauntlet, too. And then there's the Blood Rite, which they'd also have to complete." "What's the Blood Rite?" "What it sounds like." He rubbed his neck. "When an Illyrian warrior comes into his full power, usually in his twenties, he has to go through the Blood Rite before he can qualify as a full warrior and adult. Would-be warriors from every clan and village get sent in, usually three or four from each--all of them scattered across an area in the Illyrian Mountains. We're left there for a week with two goals: survival, and making it to Ramiel." "What's Ramiel?" She felt like a child with these questions, but her curiosity got the better of her. "Our sacred mountain." He drew a familiar symbol in the dirt: an upward-pointing triangle with three dots above it. A mountain, she realized. And three stars. "It's the symbol of the Night Court. The Blood Rite always takes place when Arktos, Carynth, and Oristes, our three holy stars, shine above it for one week a year. On the final day of the Rite, they're directly above its peak." "So you hike to the mountain?" "We kill our way to the mountain." His eyes had turned hard. "We're drugged and dumped into the wilderness, with nothing but our clothes." "And you have to participate?" "Once you're in, you can't leave. At least until the Rite is over, or you reach the peak of Ramiel. If anyone breaks into the Rite to extract or save you, the law declares that both of you will be hunted down and killed for the transgression. Even Rhys isn't exempt from those laws." Nesta shivered. "It sounds barbaric." "That's not the half of it. A spell is in place so our wings are rendered useless and no magic may be used." He held up a hand, displaying the red Siphon on its back. "Magic is rare amongst Illyrians, but when it does manifest, it requires Siphons to be controlled, filtered into something usable. But it gives us an advantage over the other Illyrians without it--so the spell levels the playing field. Illyrians do possess magic on one night a year, though: the night before the Blood Rite, when the war-band leaders can winnow the drugged novices into the wilds. Don't even ask me why that is. No one knows." "Azriel can winnow all the time, though." "Az is different. In a lot of ways." His tone didn't invite further questioning. "So without the use of magic in the Rite, you kill each other the normal way? Swords and daggers?" "Weapons are banned, too. At least ones that are brought in from the outside. But you can build your own. You need to build your own. Or else you'll be slaughtered." "By the other warriors?" "Yes. Rival clans, enemies, assholes seeking notoriety--all of it. In some villages, the higher the kill count, the more glory you bring. The most backward clans claim the slaughter is to thin out the weaker warriors, but I always thought it was a grand waste of any potential talent." Cassian dragged a hand through his hair. "And then there are the creatures that roam the mountains--ones that can easily bring down an Illyrian warrior with claws and fangs." A murky memory surfaced, of Feyre telling her about the horrible beasts she'd once encountered in the region. Cassian went on, "So you're facing all of that while trying to make your way to Ramiel's slopes. The majority of the males forget to save enough strength for the end of the week to make the climb. It's a full day and night of brutal climbing, where one fall can kill you. Most don't even make it to the base of the mountain. But if they do, the opponent changes. You're not facing other warriors--you're pitting yourself, your very soul, against the mountain. It's usually that fact that breaks anyone who tries to scale it." "And what--you make it to the top and get a trophy?" Cassian snorted, but his words were serious. "There's a sacred stone atop it. Touch the stone first, and you win. It will transport you out immediately." "And everyone else when the week is done?" "Whoever is left standing is considered a warrior. Where you are when it ends sorts you into one of the three echelons of warrior, named after our holy stars: Arktosian, the ones who don't make it to the mountain but survive; Oristian, the ones who make it to the mountain but don't reach the top; and Carynthian, the ones who scale the summit and are considered elite warriors. Touching the stone atop Ramiel is to win the Rite. Only a dozen warriors in the past five centuries have reached the mountain." "You touched the stone, I take it." "Rhys, Az, and I touched it together, even though we were deliberately separated from each other at the beginning." "Why?" "The leaders feared us and what we'd become. They thought the warriors or beasts would handle us, if we didn't have each other to lean against. They were wrong." His eyes glittered fiercely. "What they learned was that we love each other as true brothers. And there was nothing that we wouldn't do, no one we wouldn't kill, to reach each other. To save each other. We killed our way across the mountains, and made it through the Breaking--the worst of Ramiel's three routes to the top--and we won the damn thing. We touched the stone in the same moment, the same breath, and entered the Carynthian tier of warriors." Nesta failed to keep the shock off her face. "And you say only twelve have become Carynthian ... in five hundred years?" "No. Twelve made it to the mountain and became Oristian. Only three others, besides us, won the Blood Rite and became Carynthian." His throat bobbed. "They were fine warriors, and led exemplary units. We lost two of them against Hybern." Likely in that blast that had decimated a thousand of them. The blast she'd shielded him from. Him, and only him. Nesta's stomach clenched, nausea sliding through her. She forced herself to take a long breath. "So you think females can't participate in the Rite?" "Mor would likely win the damn thing in record time, but no. I wouldn't want even her participating in the Rite." The unspoken part of his reasoning lay coldly in his eyes. There would be a different, worse kind of violence to defend against, even if the females were as highly trained as the males. Nesta shivered. "Could you have a female unit without them taking the Blood Rite?" "They would never be honored as true warriors without it--without one of those three titles. Well, I would consider them warriors, but not the rest of the Illyrians. No other units would fly with them. They'd consider it a disgrace and an insult." She frowned and he held up his hands. "Like I said: change comes slowly. You heard the bullshit Devlon spewed about your cycle. That's considered progress. In the past, they'd kill a female for picking up a weapon. Now they 'decontaminate' the blade and call themselves modern thinkers." Disgust contorted his features. Nesta eased to her feet and scanned the sky. Her head had cleared-- only slightly. She didn't relish the prospect of shelving books when her body was already aching ... But perhaps she'd see Gwyn. "Training the Illyrian females," Cassian went on, "wouldn't be about fighting in our wars. It would be about proving they're equally as capable and strong as the males. It would be about mastering their fear, honing the strength they already have." "What do they fear?" "Becoming my mother," he said softly. "Going through what she endured." What the priestesses beneath the mountain had endured. Nesta thought of the quiet priestesses who did not leave the mountain, who dwelled in the dimness. Riven flashed through her memory, hurrying past, unable to stomach a stranger's presence. Gwyn, with her bright eyes that sometimes darkened with shadows. Cassian tilted his head to the side at her silence. "What is it?" "Would you train non-Illyrian females?" "I'm training you, aren't I?" "I mean, would you consider ..." She didn't know how to elegantly phrase it, not like silver-tongued Rhysand. "The priestesses in the library. If I invited them to train with us here, where it's private and safe. Would you train them?" Cassian blinked slowly. "Yes. I mean, of course, but ..." He winced. "Nesta, many of the females in the library do not want to be--cannot stand to be--around males again." "Then we'll ask one of your female friends to join. Mor or anyone else you can think of." "The priestesses might not even be able to stomach having me present." "You'd never hurt anyone like that." His eyes softened slightly. "It's not about that for them. It's about the fear--the trauma they bear. Even if they know I'd never do that to them, I might still drag up memories that are incredibly difficult for them to face." "You said this training would help me with my ... problems. Perhaps it could help them. At the very least give them a reason to get outside for a bit." Cassian watched her for a long moment. Then he said, "Whoever you can get up here with us, I'll gladly train. Mor's away, but I can ask Feyre--" "Not Feyre." Nesta hated the words. The way his back stiffened. She couldn't look at him as she said, "I just ..." How could she explain the tangle between her and her sister? The self-loathing that threatened to consume her every time she looked at her sister's face? "All right," Cassian repeated. "Not Feyre. But I need to give her and Rhys a heads-up. You should probably ask Clotho for permission, too." A warm hand clasped her shoulder and squeezed. "I like this idea, Nes." His hazel eyes shone bright. "I like it a lot." And for some reason, the words meant everything. <|title|>Chapter 17 <|startofchapter|>"I have a proposition for you." Stomach muscles throbbing, legs aching, Nesta stood before Clotho's desk as the priestess finished writing on whatever manuscript she was annotating, her enchanted pen scratching along. Clotho lifted her head when the pen dotted its last mark and wrote on a scrap of paper, Yes? "Would you allow your priestesses to train with me every morning in the ring at the top of the House? Not all of them--just whoever might be interested." Clotho sat perfectly still. Then the pen moved. Train for what? "To strengthen their bodies, to defend themselves, to attack, if they wish. But also to clear their minds. Help steady them." Who will oversee this training? You? "No. I'm not qualified for that. I'll be training with them." Her heart pounded. She wasn't sure why. "Cassian will be overseeing it. He's not handsy-- I mean, he's respectful and ..." Nesta shook her head. She sounded a proper fool. Beneath the shadows of her hood, Nesta could sense Clotho's gaze lingering upon her. The pen moved again. Not many will come, I am afraid. "I know. But even one or two ... I'd like to offer." Nesta gestured to a pillar beyond Clotho. "I'll put a sign-up sheet there. Whoever wants to join is welcome." Again, that long stare from beneath the hood, its weight like a phantom touch. Then Clotho wrote, Whoever wants to join has my blessing. Nesta pasted the sign-up sheet onto the pillar that day. No one had inked their name on it by the time she departed. She awoke early, made the trek to the library to check the list, and found it still empty. "It'll take time," Cassian consoled her when he read whatever lay etched on her face as she stepped into the training ring. He added a shade softly, "Keep reaching out your hand." So Nesta did. Every afternoon when she arrived at the library, she checked the list. Every evening when she left, she checked it as well. It was always empty. At training, Cassian began to instruct her on basic footwork and body positioning in hand-to-hand combat. No punches or kicks, not yet. Nesta held that infernal plank for ten seconds. Then fifteen. Then twenty. Thirty. Cassian added weights to her exercises, in order to build up her flimsy arms. Heavy stones with carved handles to carry while she did her lunges and squats. All while she breathed and breathed and breathed. She tried the stairs again. Made it to step five hundred before her muscles demanded she turn around. The next night, she halted on six hundred ten. Then seven hundred fifty. She didn't know what she'd do at the bottom: find a tavern or a pleasure hall and drink herself stupid, she supposed. If she made it, she'd deserve it, she told herself with each step. At night, exhaustion weighed so heavily she could barely eat and bathe before tumbling into bed. Barely read a chapter of a book before her eyelids drooped. She'd found a smutty novel she'd already read and loved in one of the trunks Elain had packed, and had laid it on the desk. She'd said to the air, "I found this for you. It's a present." The book had vanished into nothing. But in the morning, she'd found a bouquet of autumnal flowers upon her desk, the glass vase bursting with asters and chrysanthemums of every color. A week passed, during which she barely saw Gwyn, though she learned through Clotho that Merrill had been pushing her hard with the Valkyrie research. But Nesta had so many books to shelve that the hours passed swiftly. Especially once she began using the books to train. While striding up the ramp, she'd hold a heavy stack and execute an assortment of lunges. Several times, she caught passing priestesses a level above peering at her while she did so. Every day, she checked the sign-up sheet on the pillar beyond Clotho's desk. Empty. Day after day after day. Keep reaching out your hand, Cassian had told her. But what would it matter, she began to wonder, if no one bothered to reach back? "You hold your fist like that when you punch someone and you'll shatter your thumb." Panting, with sweat running down her back in great rivers, Nesta scowled at Cassian. She held up the fist he'd ordered her to make, her thumb inside her folded fingers. "What's wrong with my fist?" "Keep your thumb atop the knuckles on your pointer and middle finger." He made a fist to demonstrate and wiggled the thumb tucked against his fingers. "If your thumb makes the hit, it's going to hurt like hell." Studying the fist Cassian extended, Nesta mimicked the positioning on her own hand. "What then?" He jerked his chin. "Get into the position we went over yesterday. Feet parallel, rooting your strength into the ground ..." "I know, I know," Nesta muttered, and took up the stance he'd spent three days making her practice. She observed her feet as they shuffled into position, then she bent her knees slightly, bobbing twice to make sure she'd secured her center of power. Cassian circled her. "Good. Any punch you make should be swift and precise, not a wild swing that'll knock you off balance and deprive your arm of strength. Your body and breath will power the punch more than your actual arm." He took up a similar stance--and struck at the air. He moved so smoothly, so brutally, that the blow was done before she could blink. He held out his arm when he'd finished, muscles shifting. He'd rolled up his sleeves against the warm autumn day, but hadn't taken his shirt off entirely. In the stark sunlight, the tattoo along his left arm seemed to drink down the brightness. "Line up the first two knuckles with your forearm. That's what you want to hit with, and the strength in your arm will carry right through to them. If you hit with your ring finger and pinky, you'! break your hand." "I had no idea punching was so fraught with peril." "Apparently, it takes brains to be a brute." Nesta flattened her brows, but focused on aligning her forearm and the knuckles he'd indicated. "That's it?" "To hit with the proper knuckles, you need to angle your wrist downward just a fraction." "Why?" "So your wrist doesn't snap." She lowered her arm. "Considering how many ways there are to break my own hand when punching someone, it doesn't seem worth it." "That's why a good warrior knows when to pick his battles." He lowered his fist. "You have to ask yourself if the risk is worth it each time." "And do you always throw a punch with perfect form?" "Yes," Cassian said without one ounce of doubt. He shook his hair from his eyes. "Well, most of the time. There have been some brawls when I didn't have the right angle and balance, but a punch, even one that could break my hand, was the best way out of a bind. I've shattered my hand ..." He squinted at the sky, as if doing a mental tally. "Oh, probably ten times." "In five hundred years." "I can't be perfect every moment of every day, Nes." His eyes flickered. There had been no repeats of that madness in the hallway last week. And she'd been too tired at night to even make it up to the dining room, let alone to pleasure herself in bed. "Right," he said. "Now shift your hips into the punch." He struck at the air again. He moved more slowly this time, letting her see how his body flowed into the blow. "It will engage your core and your shoulder, both of which add extra power." Another jab. "So those abdominal exercises are useful beyond wanting to show off your muscles?" He threw her a wry grin. "You really think this is just for show?" "I think I've caught you looking at yourself in that mirror at least a dozen times each lesson." Nesta nodded to the slender mirror across the ring. He chuckled. "Liar. You use that mirror to watch me when you think I'm not paying attention." She refused to let him see the truth on her face. Refused to so much as lower her head. She focused again on her stance. "All business today, huh?" "You want me to train," Nesta said coolly, "so train me." Even if no priestesses showed up, even if she was a stupid fool for hoping that they would, she didn't mind this training. It cleared her head, required so much thinking and breathing that the roaring thoughts had little chance to devour her whole. Only in the quiet moments did those thoughts pounce again, usually if she lost focus while working in the library or bathing. And when that happened, the stairwell always beckoned. The infernal ten thousand steps. But would it do anything--the training, the work, the stairs--beyond keeping her busy? The thoughts still waited like wolves to swarm her. To rip her apart. I loved you from the first moment I held you in my arms. The wolves prowled closer, claws clicking. "Where'd you go?" Cassian asked, hazel eyes dim with worry. Nesta took up her stance again. It sent the wolves retreating a step. "Nowhere." Elain was in the private library. Nesta knew it before she'd cleared the stairs, covered in dust from the library. Her sister's delicate scent of jasmine and honey lingered in the red- stoned hall like a promise of spring, a sparkling river that she followed to the open doors of the chamber. Elain stood at the wall of windows, clad in a lilac gown whose close- fitting bodice showed how well her sister had filled out since those initial days in the Night Court. Gone were the sharp angles, replaced by softness and elegant curves. Nesta knew she herself had looked like that at one point, even if Elain's breasts had always been smaller. She peered down at herself, bony and gangly. Her sister turned toward her, glowing with health. Elain's smile was as bright as the setting sun beyond the windows. "I thought I'd drop by to see how you were doing." Someone had brought Elain here, since there was no way in hell she had climbed those ten thousand steps. Nesta didn't return her sister's smile, but rather gestured to her body, the leathers, the dust. "I've been busy." "You look a little better than you did a few weeks ago." The last time she'd seen Elain--a week before she'd come to the House. She'd passed her sister in the bustling market square they called the Palace of Bone and Salt, and though Elain had halted, no doubt intending to speak to her, Nesta had kept walking. Hadn't looked back before vanishing into the throng. Nesta didn't wish to consider how poorly she'd looked then, if the picture she presented now was better. "You've got good coloring, I mean," Elain clarified, striding from the windows to cross the room. She stopped a few feet away. As if holding herself back from the embrace she might have given. Like Nesta was some sort of disease-ridden leper. How many times had they been in this room during those initial months? How many times had it been this way, only with their positions switched? Elain had been the ghost then, too thin, with her thoughts turned inward. Somehow, Nesta had become the ghost. Worse than a ghost. A wraith, whose rage and hunger were bottomless, eternal. Elain had only needed time to adjust. But Nesta knew she herself needed more than that. "Are you enjoying your time up here?" Nesta met her sister's warm brown eyes. When human, Elain had easily been the prettiest of the three of them, and when she'd been turned High Fae, that beauty had been amplified. Nesta couldn't put her finger on what changes had been wrought beyond the pointed ears, but Elain had gone from lovely to devastatingly beautiful. Elain never seemed to realize it. It was always that way between them: Elain, sweet and oblivious, and Nesta, the snarling wolf at her side, poised to shred anyone who threatened her. Elain is pleasant to look at, her mother had once mused while Nesta sat beside her dressing table, a servant silently brushing her mother's gold- brown hair, but she has no ambition. She does not dream beyond her garden and pretty clothes. She will be an asset on the marriage market for us one day, if that beauty holds, but it will be our own maneuverings, Nesta, not hers, that win us an advantageous match. Nesta had been twelve at the time. Elain barely eleven. She'd absorbed every word of her mother's scheming, plans for futures that had never come to pass. We shall have to petition your father to go to the continent when the time is right, her mother had often said. There are no men here worthy of either of you. Feyre hadn't even been considered at that point, a sullen, strange child whom her mother ignored. Human royalty rules there still-- lords and dukes and princes--but their wealth is tapped out, many of their estates nearing ruin. Two beautiful ladies with a king's fortune could go far. I might marry a prince? Nesta had asked. Her mother had only smiled. Nesta shook her head clear of the memories and said at last, "I don't have any choice but to be here, so I don't see how I could be enjoying myself." Elain wrung her slender fingers, nails kept trimmed short for her work in the gardens. "I know the circumstances for your coming here were awful, Nesta, but it doesn't mean you need to be so miserable about it." "I sat by your side for weeks," Nesta said flatly. "Weeks, while you wasted away, refusing food and drink. While you appeared to hope you'd just wither and die." Elain flinched. But Nesta couldn't stop the words from pouring out. "No one suggested you either shape up or be shipped back to the human lands." Elain, surprisingly, held her ground. "I wasn't drinking myself into oblivion and--and doing those other things." "Fucking strangers?" Elain flinched again, her face coloring. Nesta snorted. "You're living amongst beings who have none of our human primness, you know." Elain squared her shoulders again, just as Nesta added, "It's not like you and Graysen didn't act on your feelings." It was a low blow, but Nesta didn't care. She knew Elain had given her maidenhead to Graysen a month before they'd been turned Fae. Elain had been glowing the next morning. Elain cocked her head. Didn't dissolve into the crying mess she usually became when Graysen came up. Instead she said, "You're angry with me." Fine, then. She could be direct, too. Nesta shot back, "For packing my things while Rhysand and Feyre told me I'm a worthless pile of shit? Yes." Elain crossed her arms and said calmly, sadly, "Feyre warned me this might happen." The words struck Nesta like a slap. They'd spoken of her, her behavior, her attitude. Elain and Feyre--that was the new status of things. The bond Elain had chosen. It was inevitable, Nesta supposed, stomach churning. She was the monster. Why shouldn't the two of them band together and shove her out? Even if she'd foolishly believed that Elain had always seen every horrible part of her and decided to stick by her anyway. "I still wanted to come," Elain went on with that focused calm, the quiet steel building in her voice. "I wanted to see you, to explain." Elain had chosen Feyre, chosen her perfect little world. Amren hadn't been any different. Nesta's spine stiffened. "There is nothing to explain." Elain held up her hands. "We did this because we love you." "Spare me the bullshit, please." Elain stepped closer, brown eyes wide. Undoubtedly wholly convinced of her own innocence, her innate goodness. "It's the truth. We did this because we love you, and worry for you, and if Father were here--" "Don't ever mention him." Nesta bared her teeth, but kept her voice low. "Never fucking mention him again." She forbade her leash to slip completely. But she felt it--the stirring of that terrible beast inside her. Felt its power surge, blazing yet cold. She lunged for it, shoving it down, down, down, but it was too late. Elain's gasp confirmed that Nesta's eyes had gone to silver fire, as Cassian had described it. But Nesta smothered the fire in her darkness, until she was cold and empty and still once more. Pain slowly washed over Elain's face. And understanding. "Is that what this is all about? Father?" Nesta pointed to the door, finger shaking with the effort of keeping that writhing power at bay. Each word from Elain's mouth threatened to undo her restraint. "Get out." Silver lined Elain's eyes, but her voice remained steady, sure. "There was nothing that could have been done to save him, Nesta." The words were kindling. Elain had accepted his death as inevitable. She hadn't bothered to fight for him, as if he hadn't been worth the effort, precisely as Nesta knew she herself wasn't worth the effort. This time, Nesta didn't stop the power from shining in her eyes; she shook so violently she had to fist her hands. "You tell yourself there's nothing that could have been done because it's unbearable to think that you could have saved him, if you'd only deigned to show up a few minutes earlier." The lie was bitter in her mouth. It wasn't Elain's fault their father had died. No, that was entirely Nesta's own fault. But if Elain was so determined to root out the good in her, then she'd show her sister how ugly she could be. Let a fraction of this agony rip into her. This was why Elain had chosen Feyre. This. Feyre had rescued Elain time and again. But Nesta had sat by, armed only with her viper's tongue. Sat by while they starved. Sat by when Hybern stole them away and shoved them into the Cauldron. Sat by when Elain had been kidnapped. And when their father had been in Hybern's grip, she had done nothing, nothing to save him, either. Fear had frozen her, blanketing her mind, and she'd let it do so, let it master her, so that by the time her father's neck had snapped, it had been too late. And entirely her fault. Why wouldn't Elain choose Feyre? Elain stiffened, but refused to balk from whatever she beheld in Nesta's gaze. "You think I'm to blame for his death?" Challenge filled each word. Challenge--from Elain, of all people. "No one but the King of Hybern is to blame for that." The quaver in her voice belied her firm words. Nesta knew she'd hit her mark. She opened her mouth, but couldn't continue. Enough. She had said enough. That fast, the power in her receded, vanishing into smoke on the wind. Leaving only exhaustion weighing her bones, her breath. "It doesn't matter what I think. Go back to Feyre and your little garden." Even during their squabbles in the cottage, fighting over who got clothes or boots or ribbons, it had never been like this. Those fights had been petty, born of misery and discomfort. This was a different beast entirely, from a place as dark as the gloom at the base of the library. Elain headed for the doors, purple dress sweeping behind her. "Cassian said he thought the training was helping," she murmured, more to herself than to Nesta. "Sorry to disappoint you." Nesta slammed the doors so hard they rattled. Silence filled the room. She didn't twist toward the windows to see who might fly past with Elain, who'd be witness to the tears Elain would likely shed. Nesta slid into one of the armchairs before the unlit fireplace and stared at nothing. She didn't stop the wolves when they gathered around her again, hateful, razor-sharp truths on their red tongues. She didn't stop them as they began to rend her apart. When Elain burst into the dining room of the House, Cassian and Rhys were shaking off the frigid air that had been howling through Windhaven. Her brown eyes were bright with tears, but she kept her chin high. "I want to go home," she said, voice wobbling slightly. Cassian looked at Rhys, who'd dropped off the middle Archeron sister before retrieving Cassian from Windhaven. He'd wanted to see for himself how ready the Illyrians were to fight. That Rhys had found nothing lacking both elated Cassian and filled him with dread. If war began once more, how many would die? It was a soldier's lot in life to fight, to march with Death beside him, and he had led males into battle multiple times. Yet how many promises had he foolishly made to the families of those who'd fallen in the recent war that the peace would last for a while? How many more families would he have to comfort? He didn't know why it was different this time, why it weighed so heavily. But while Rhys and Devlon had been speaking, Cassian had been staring at the children of Windhaven, wondering how many would lose their fathers. Cassian cast the memory aside as Rhys surveyed Elain, his violet-blue eyes missing nothing. "What happened." When Rhys spoke like that, it was more of a command than a question. Elain waved a hand in dismissal before flinging open the veranda doors and striding into the open air. "Elain," Rhys said as he and Cassian trailed her into the dying light. Elain stood by the rail, the breeze caressing her hair. "She's not getting any better. She's not even trying." She wrapped her arms around herself and stared toward the distant sea. Rhys turned to him, his face grave. Feyre warned her. Cassian swore softly. Nesta is making progress--I know she is. Something set her off. He added, because Rhys was still looking like cold death personified, It'll take time. Maybe no more visits from her sisters, for the time being. At least not without her permission. He didn't want to isolate Nesta. Not at all. If Elain wants to see her again, let me ask Nesta first. Rhys's voice slithered like liquid night. What about Feyre ? She doesn't want Feyre here. Power rumbled through Rhys, guttering the stars in his eyes. Calm the fuck down, Cassian snapped. They have their own shit to sort out. You threatening to obliterate Nesta every time it comes up doesn't help. Rhys held his stare, the inherent dominance in it like the force of a tidal wave. But Cassian weathered it. Let it wash past him. Then Rhys shook his head and said to Elain, "I'll fly you home." Elain didn't object when Rhys scooped her up and launched into the red-and-pink-stained sky. When they were a speck of black and purple over the rooftops, Rhys sweeping along the gilded river as if giving Elain a scenic tour, then and only then did Cassian enter the House. He stormed across the dining room and into the hallway; he charged down the stairs, his feet eating every inch of distance until he flung open the family library's doors. "What the fuck happened?" Nesta was sitting in an armchair before the dark fireplace, fingers digging into the rolled arms of the seat. A queen on a quilted throne. "I don't want to talk to you," was all she said. His heart thundered, his chest heaving as if he'd run a mile. "What did you say to Elain?" She leaned forward to peer at him. Then rose to her feet, a pillar of steel and flame, her lips curling back from her teeth. "Of course you'd assume I'm the one at fault." She prowled closer, her eyes burning with cold fire. "Always defending sweet, innocent Elain." He crossed his arms, letting her get as close to him as she wanted. Like hell would he yield one step to her. "I'll remind you that you've been the chief defender of sweet, innocent Elain until recently." He'd witnessed her go toe to toe with Fae capable of slaughtering her without giving it a thought, all for her sister. Nesta only simmered, near-shaking with rage. Or cold. Cauldron, it was cold in here. Only the heated floors offered any reprieve. "Fire," he said, and the House obeyed. A great blaze flared to life in the hearth behind him. "No fire," she said, focused upon Cassian, though her words were not to him. The House seemed to ignore her. "No fire," she ordered. He could have sworn she blanched slightly. For a heartbeat, he was again in Rhys's mother's house in Windhaven. She'd been staring and staring into the fire, as if speaking to it, as if unaware that even he was there. The fire crackled and popped. Nesta seethed to the open air, "I said--" A log cracked, as if the House were merrily ignoring her, adding heat to the flame. But Nesta flinched. Barely a blink and half a shudder, but her entire body went rigid. Fear and dread flashed over her features, then vanished. Strange. Whatever curiosity Nesta noted on his face had her bristling again before launching toward the open doors of the library. "Where are you going?" he demanded, unable to keep the temper from his voice. "Out." She hit the hall and aimed for the stairwell. Cassian stalked after her, a snarl ripping from his throat. He quickly closed the distance between them. "Leave me alone," she bit out. "What's the plan, Nes?" He trailed her to the lowest level of the House and the stairwell halfway down the corridor. "You tear into the people who love you until they eventually give up and leave you alone? Is that what you want?" She yanked on the handle of the ancient door and threw him a withering glare over a shoulder. She opened her mouth, then shut it against whatever had been about to come out. As if she'd bank herself for him. Pity him. Spare him. Like he needed shielding from her. "Say it," he hissed. "Just fucking say it." Nesta's gaze lit with that silver fire. Her nose crinkled with animalistic rage. The Siphons atop his hands warmed, readying for an enemy he refused to acknowledge. Her eyes slid down to the red stones. And when they again lifted to his face, the unholy fire in her stare was gone. Replaced by something so dead and vacant it was like gazing into the unseeing eyes of a fallen soldier on a battlefield. He'd seen crows pick at eyes that dead. Nesta said nothing as she turned back to the stairwell and began her descent. <|title|>Chapter 18 <|startofchapter|>There was only the red stone of the stairwell, and her jagged breathing, and the knives that had turned inward and sliced and sliced, the walls pushing in, her legs burning with each step downward. She didn't want to be in her head, didn't want to be in her body. Wanted the beating of drums and the riotous song of a fiddle to fill her with sound, to silence any thought. Wanted to find a bottle of wine and drink deep, let the wine pull her out of herself, set her mind drifting and numb. Down and down and down. Around and around and around. Nesta passed the step with her burning handprint. Passed step two hundred fifty. Three hundred. Five hundred. Eight hundred. It was on step eight hundred and three that her legs began to wobble. The roaring in her head dulled as she focused upon keeping upright. By step one thousand, she had stopped entirely. There was only the spinning silence. Nesta closed her eyes and leaned her brow into the cool stone to her right, bringing up an arm to rest against it, as if she were clinging tight to a lover. She could have sworn a heartbeat thumped within the stone, as surely as if it beat within a chest beneath her ear. It was her own pounding blood, she told herself. Even as she clung to the wall, that heartbeat. She let her breathing saw in and out of her. Let the trembling of her body ease. The heartbeat in the stone faded. The wall turned icy beneath her flushed cheek. Rough against her fingertips. She began the walk upward. One step after another after another. Thighs straining, knees groaning, chest on fire. Her head had emptied by the time she half-crawled up the last twenty steps. She'd had to stop five times to rest. Five times, only for as long as it took to catch her breath and steady herself--just until the roaring threatened to press in again. She was wrung out, utterly empty, by the time she arrived back at the landing. Cassian leaned against the opposite wall, his face grave. "I don't feel like sparring with you," she said flatly, too drained to be angry. She knew she could call in their bargain to order him to fly her down to the city, but she didn't possess the energy to even bother. "Good night." He moved into her path, wings blocking her. "What step did you reach this time?" As if it mattered. "One thousand." Her legs throbbed and throbbed. "Impressive." Nesta lifted her stare to his face, and found him earnest. She didn't bother to hide the weariness weighing on every part of her. She made to walk past him, but he didn't lower his wings. Short of punching her way through, she wasn't getting by. "What?" "What set you off today?" "Everything." She didn't want to say more. "What did Elain say to you?" She couldn't revisit that conversation, couldn't talk about her father or his death or any of it. So she shut her heavy eyes. "Why don't they sign up for training?" He knew who she meant. "Maybe they're not ready." "I thought they'd sign up." "Ts that what you're upset about?" His question was so gentle, so sad. Nesta opened her eyes. "Some of them have been here for hundreds of years and still haven't been able to come back from what they endured. So what hope do I have?" He rubbed at his shoulder, as if it were sore. "We've been working for barely two weeks, Nesta. Physically, you might be seeing changes, but what's happening in your mind, your heart, will take far longer than that. Fuck, it took Feyre months--" "I don't want to hear about Feyre and her special journey. I don't want to hear about Rhys's journey, or Morrigan's, or anyone's." "Why?" The words, the rage, built again. She refused to speak, instead focusing on tamping down that power inside her until it didn't so much as murmur. "Why?" he pushed. "Because I don't," she snapped. "Put those bat wings away." Cassian obeyed, but stepped closer, towering over her. "Then I'll tell you about my special journey, Nes." His tone was icy in a way she'd never heard. "No." "I slaughtered every person who hurt my mother." She blinked up at him, the weight in her vanishing at the vicious words. Cassian's face held only ancient rage. "When I was old and strong enough, I went back to the village where I was born, where I'd been ripped from her arms, and I learned that she was dead. And there was no one I could fight to change that. They refused to tell me where they'd buried her. One of the females hinted that they'd dumped her off the cliff." Horror and something like pain went through her. His eyes flared with cold light. "So I destroyed them. Anyone who wasn't responsible--children and some females and the elderly--I let them leave. But anyone who had played a role in her suffering ... I made them suffer in return. Rhys and Azriel helped me. Found the piece of shit who'd sired me. I let my brothers tear him apart before I finished him." The words hung between them. He said with soft fury, "It took me ten years before I was able to face it. What I'd done to those people, and what I'd lost. Ten years." He was trembling, but not with fear. "So if you want to take ten years to face whatever is eating you alive from the inside out, go ahead. You want to take twenty years, go ahead." Silence fell, interrupted only by their uneven panting. Nesta breathed, "Do you regret what you did?" "No." Such unflinching honesty. The same honesty that now assessed her, marking every roaring, sharp piece of her. Nesta dipped her head, as if it'd stop him from seeing everything. Warm, strong fingers cupped her chin, calluses scraping against her skin. She let him lift her head. She hadn't realized he'd come closer. That only inches separated them. Unless she'd been the one to drift toward him, drawn by each brutal word. Cassian kept his light grip on her chin. "Whatever you need to throw at me, I can take it. I won't break." No challenge laced the words. Only a plea. "You don't understand," she said, voice rasping. "I am not like you and the others." "That's never bothered me one bit." He lowered his hand from her chin. She straightened. "It should." "You say that like you want it to bother me." "It bothers everyone. Even oh-so-special Rhysand." His teeth flashed, any semblance of softness gone. "I told you once, and I'll say it again: don't take that snide fucking tone when you speak about him." "He's not my High Lord. I may speak of him as I wish." She made to step away, but he gripped her wrist, holding her in place. "Let go." "Make me. Use that training and make me." Hot temper poured in. "You're an arrogant bastard." "And you're a haughty witch. We're evenly matched." She snarled. "Let go." Cassian snorted, but obeyed, turning his face as he backed a step away. And it was the light of victory in his eyes, the clear sense that he believed he'd somehow unnerved her and won this fight that had her grabbing the front of his leather jacket. Nesta told herself it was to knock that smirk off his face that she curled her fingers in the leather and hauled her mouth to his. <|title|>Chapter 19 <|startofchapter|>For a heartbeat, there was only the warmth of Cassian's mouth, the press of his body, the stiffness in his every trembling muscle as Nesta slanted her lips over his, rising onto her toes. She'd kissed him with her eyes open, so she could see precisely how his own widened. Nesta pulled away a moment later and found his eyes still wide, his breathing harsh. She laughed softly, making to unhook her fingers from his jacket and strut down the hall. She only got as far as lowering her right hand before he surged forward to kiss her back. The force of that kiss knocked them toward the wall, the stone slamming into her shoulders as all of him lined up against all of her, a hand sliding into her hair while the other gripped her hip. The moment Nesta hit that wall, the moment Cassian enveloped her, it destroyed any illusion of restraint. She opened her mouth, and his tongue swept in, the kiss punishing and savage. And the taste of him, like snow-kissed wind and crackling embers-- She moaned, unable to help herself. It seemed that sound was his undoing, for the fingers in her hair dug into her scalp, angling her head so he could better taste her, claim her. Her hands roved over his muscled chest, desperate for any skin, anything to touch as their tongues met and parted, as he licked the roof of her mouth, as he slid his tongue over her teeth. She met him stroke for stroke, and all sense of self went flying from her. She plunged her fingers into his hair, and it was as soft as she'd imagined, the strands like silk against her skin. Every hateful thought eddied from her mind. She gave herself to the distraction, welcomed it with open arms, let the kiss burn through all of it. There was only his mouth and his tongue and his teeth, licking and tasting and biting; there was only the strength of his body, pressing against hers, but not nearly close enough-- He slid his hands around her, grasping her ass, and lifted her into the air. She wrapped her legs around his middle, and moaned again as he pressed himself between her thighs. She needed this temporary reprieve from her mind, that thing burning deep inside her, the memories that hounded her. She needed this. Needed him. Cassian ground into her, and groaned into her mouth at the first push of his hips. She arched her back at that deep-throated sound, baring her neck to him. He seized on it, dragging his mouth from hers. His tongue traced a line up the column of her neck, dragging heat in its wake, and reached that spot just below her ear that had her clenching, had her whimpering. He let out a laugh against her skin. "Like that?" he murmured, and licked it again. Her breasts ached, and she moved against him, seeking any contact with his chest, any bit of friction. But Cassian buried his face against her neck, teeth clamping down lightly atop her fluttering pulse. The slight hurt set her panting; the scrape of his tongue over the spot had her eyes rolling back in her head. He pulled his head from her neck, though. And Nesta had never been laid so bare as she was while he ground his hips into her again and watched her writhe. A dark smile graced his mouth. "So responsive," he purred in a voice she'd never heard but knew she'd crawl to hear again. He drove his hips between hers, a lazy, thorough push of the hardness of him into the throbbing ache of her. She scrambled to regain any sense of control, of sanity--found herself wanting to hand it all over to him, to let him touch and touch and touch her, lick and suckle and fill her-- Cassian growled, as if he read that in her stare, and kissed her again. Their tongues tangled, their bodies pressed so tightly she could feel his heartbeat against her chest. He tasted her thoroughly, withdrew, and tasted her again. Like he was learning every place in her mouth. She had to feel his skin. Had to feel the hardness pushing into her with her hands, her mouth, her body. She'd go mad if she didn't, go mad if she couldn't get these clothes off, go mad if he stopped kissing her-- Nesta wedged her hand between their bodies, seeking him out. Cassian groaned again, long and low, as her hand cupped him through the leather of his pants. The breath stole out of her. The sheer size of him-- Her mouth watered. She was aching, so wet that every stitch of the seam down the center of her pants was torture. His kiss turned deeper, wilder, and she grappled with the laces and buttons of his pants. There were so many she didn't know where to find the ones to undo them, her fingertips ripping at every loop, nearly clawing to get him free. Cassian's panting caressed her skin as he nipped at her bottom lip, her ear, her jaw. Her own staccato breathing echoed it, fire roaring in her blood, and he captured her mouth again, moaning into her as she gave up on the laces and buttons and laid her hand flat against him. He bucked as she rubbed the heel of her palm down his length, marveling at each inch. He tore his mouth from hers. "If you keep doing that, I'll--" Nesta did it again, dragging the heel of her palm upward, toward the tip she knew pressed against his lower abdomen. His hips arced toward her, and he tilted back his head, exposing the strong column of his throat. She learned the shape of him through his pants, and pressed her hand harder, working him. He gritted his teeth, chest heaving like a bellows, and the sight of him coming undone had her leaning forward. Had her clamping her teeth onto his neck. Just as she rubbed him again, harder and rougher. He hissed. With her name on his lips, his hips thrust into her hand with a strength that made her core throb to the point of pain, imagining that force, that size and heat, buried deep in her. Another punishing rub of her palm, a scrape of teeth at his neck, and Cassian erupted. His wings tucked in tight as he came, and each spurt of his cock shuddered through his pants, echoing along her hand as she stroked and stroked him. When Cassian had stilled, when he was shaking--only then did Nesta remove her face from his neck. His hazel eyes were wide enough that the whites shone around them. A blush stained his golden cheeks, so enticing that she nearly leaned forward to lick that, too. But he remained gaping. Like he'd realized what he'd done and regretted it. Every bit of desire, of blessed distraction within her winked out. Nesta shoved at his chest, and he immediately let go, almost dropping her to the floor as their bodies pulled apart. She didn't wait to hear his words of regret, that this had been a mistake. She wouldn't let him hold that power over her. So Nesta curled her lips in a cold, cruel smile and said as she left, "Someone's quick off the mark." Cassian couldn't look Azriel in the face at breakfast the next morning. His brother had returned late last night, refused to say anything about what he'd found regarding Briallyn, and only insisted that today they'd all meet at the river house and learn of it together. Cassian hadn't cared. He'd barely listened to Azriel asking about training. He'd come in his pants after a few touches from Nesta, soaking himself like he was no better than he'd been in his youth. But the moment she had kissed him in the hall, he'd lost all semblance of sanity. He'd turned into something just short of an animal, licking and biting at her neck, unable to think clearly beyond the base instinct to claim. The taste of her had been like fire and steel and a winter sunrise. That had just been her mouth, her neck. If he got his tongue between her legs ... He shifted in his seat. "Did something happen that I, as your chaperone, should know about?" Azriel's dry question dragged Cassian from his rising arousal. From the amusement on his brother's face, he knew Az could not only scent that arousal but see it on his face. "No," Cassian grumbled. He'd never hear the end of it if he admitted what he'd done. He'd found his pleasure, and Nesta had not. He'd never allowed such a thing to happen. But he'd come hard enough to see stars, and only then realized she had not. That he'd embarrassed himself, that he'd left her unsatisfied, and if it was the only taste of her he'd ever get, he'd monumentally fucked it all to hell. And then there'd been her parting shot, blasting what was left of his pride into shards. Quick off the mark, she'd purred, like what they'd done hadn't meant anything. He knew it was bullshit. He'd felt her frantic need, heard her moans and wanted to devour them whole. But that kernel of doubt took root. He had to make it even, somehow. Had to get the upper hand again. Azriel cleared his throat, and Cassian blinked. "What?" "I said, are you two ready to head down to the river house?" "Two?" He blinked through the cloud of arousal. Azriel chuckled, shadows skittering. "Did you listen at all last night?" "No." "At least you're honest." Azriel smirked. "You and Nesta are wanted down there." "Because of the shit with Elain?" Azriel stilled. "What happened to Elain?" Cassian waved a hand. "A fight with Nesta. Don't bring it up," he warned when Azriel's eyes darkened. Cassian blew out a breath. "I take that as ano regarding the meeting topic, then." "It's about what I discovered. Rhys said he requires you both there." "It's bad, then." Cassian surveyed the shadows gathered around Az. "You all right?" His brother nodded. "Fine." But shadows still swarmed him. Cassian knew it was a lie, but didn't push it. Az would speak when he was ready, and Cassian would have better success convincing a mountain to move than getting Az to open up. So he said, "All right. We'll meet you there." <|title|>Chapter 20 <|startofchapter|>Nesta could barely stand to be near Cassian as they flew over Velaris. Every glance, every scent of him, every touch while he carried her down to the river house grated along her skin, threatening to bring her back to last night, when she'd been starved for any taste of him. Thankfully, Cassian didn't speak to her. Barely looked at her. And by the time the sprawling manor along the river appeared, she'd forgotten to be annoyed by his silence. Two weeks up at the House, and the city suddenly loomed large, too loud, too full of people. "This meeting will be fast," Cassian promised as they landed on the front lawn, as if he'd read the tension in her body. Nesta said nothing, unable to speak with the churning in her stomach. Who would be here? Which of them would she have to face, to endure them judging her so-called progress? They'd probably all heard of her fight with Elain--gods, would Elain be present? She followed Cassian into the beautiful house, barely noting the round table in the heart of the entry, crowned with a massive vase full of freshly cut flowers. Barely noting the silence of the house, not a servant to be seen. But Cassian paused before a landscape painting of a towering, barren mountain, void of life yet somehow thrumming with presence. Snow and pines crusted the smaller peaks around it, but this strange, bald mountain ... Only a black stone jutted from its top. A monolith, Nesta realized, stepping closer. Cassian murmured, "I didn't realize Feyre had painted Ramiel." The sacred mountain from the Blood Rite. Indeed, three stars faintly glowed in the twilight skies above the peak. It was a near-perfect, real-life rendering of the Night Court's insignia. "I wonder when she saw it," Cassian mused, smiling faintly. Nesta didn't bother to suggest Feyre might have simply peered into Rhysand's mind. Cassian continued onward, leading her down the hall without another word. Nesta steeled herself as he stopped before the study doors--the same room where she'd sat and received a public lashing--and then flung one open. Rhys and Feyre sat on the sapphire couch before the window. Azriel leaned against the mantel. Amren had curled herself into an armchair, bundled in a gray fur coat, as if the nip in the air today were a blast of winter. No Elain, no Morrigan. Feyre's gaze was wary. Cold. But it warmed as she smiled at Cassian, who strode to her and kissed her cheek--or tried to. He said to Rhys, "Really? She's shielded even in here?" Rhys stretched out his long legs, crossing one ankle over the other. "Even in here." Cassian rolled his eyes and plopped into the armchair beside Amren's, surveying her fur coat and saying, "It's barely cold today." Amren's teeth flashed. "Keep talking like that and it'll be your pelt I wear tomorrow." Nesta might have smiled had Amren not turned toward her. Tension, thick and painful, stretched between them. Nesta refused to look away. Amren's red lips curled, her bob of black hair gleaming. Feyre cleared her throat. "All right, Az. Let's hear it." Azriel folded his wings, shadows writhing around his ankles and neck. "Queen Briallyn has been busier than we thought, but not in the way we expected." Nesta's blood went cold. The queen who had leaped into the Cauldron of her own free will, desperate to be turned young and immortal. She'd emerged a withered crone--and immortal. Doomed to be old and bent forever. Azriel went on, "In the week I've been watching her, I ... learned what her next steps are." The way he hesitated before he said learned said enough: he'd tortured it out of someone. Many people. Nesta glanced at his scarred hands, and Azriel tucked them behind his back, as if he noted her attention. "Get on with it," Amren snapped, rustling in her chair. "The other queens indeed fled from Briallyn weeks ago, as Eris said. She alone sits in the throne room of their shared palace. And what Eris revealed about Beron was true, too: the High Lord visited Briallyn on the continent, pledging his forces to her cause." A muscle ticked in Azriel's jaw. "But Briallyn's gathering of armies, the alliance with Beron, is only the auxiliary force to what she has planned." He shook his head, shadows slithering over his wings. "Briallyn wishes to find the Cauldron again. In order to retrieve her youth." "She'll never attain the Cauldron," Amren said, waving a hand gleaming with rings. "No one but us, Miryam, and Drakon know where it's hidden. Even if Briallyn did uncover its location, there are enough wards and spells on it that no one could ever break through." "Briallyn knows this," Azriel said gravely. Nesta's stomach churned. Azriel nodded to Cassian. "What Vassa suspected is true. The death-lord Koschei has been whispering in Briallyn's ear. He remains trapped at his lake, but his words carry on the wind to her. He is ancient, his depth of knowledge fathomless. He pointed Briallyn toward the Dread Trove--not for her sake, but for his own ends. He wishes to use it to free himself from his lake. And Briallyn is not the puppet we believed her to be--she and Koschei are allies." He added to Cassian, "You need to ask Eris whether Beron knows about this. And the Trove." Cassian nodded into the ensuing silence. Nesta found herself asking, "What's the Dread Trove?" Amren's eyes glowed with a remnant of her power. "The Cauldron Made many objects of power, long ago, forging weapons of unrivaled might. Most were lost to history and war, and when I went into the Prison, only three remained. At the time, some claimed there were four, or that the fourth had been Unmade, but today's legends only tell of three." "The Mask," Rhys murmured, "the Harp, and the Crown." Nesta had a feeling none of them were good. Feyre frowned at her mate. "They're different from the objects of power in the Hewn City? What can they do?" Nesta had tried her best to forget that night she and Amren had gone to test her so-called gift against the hoard within those unhallowed catacombs. The objects had been half-imprisoned in the stone itself: knives and necklaces and orbs and books, all shimmering with power. None of it pleasant. For the Dread Trove to be worse than what she'd witnessed ... "The Mask can raise the dead," Amren answered for Rhys. "It is a death mask, molded from the face of a long-forgotten king. Wear it and you may summon the dead to you, command them to march at your will. The Harp can open any door, physical or otherwise. Some say between worlds. And the Crown ..." Amren shook her head. "The Crown can influence anyone, even piercing through the mightiest of mental shields. Its only flaw is that it requires close physical proximity to initially sink its claws into a victim's mind. But wear the Crown, and you could make your enemies do your bidding. Could make a parent slaughter their child, aware of the horror but unable to stop themselves." "And these things were lost?" Nesta demanded. Rhys threw her a frown. "Those who possessed them grew careless. They were lost in ancient wars, or to treachery, or simply because they were misplaced and forgotten." "What does it have to do with the Cauldron?" Nesta pushed. "Like calls to like," Feyre murmured, looking to Amren, who nodded. "Because the Trove was Made by the Cauldron, so might the Trove find its Maker." She angled her head. "Briallyn was Made, though. Can't she track the Cauldron herself?" Amren drummed her fingers on the arm of her chair. "The Cauldron aged Briallyn to punish her." A glance at Nesta. "Or punish you, I suppose." Nesta kept her face carefully blank. Amren went on, "But I think you took something from it when you seized your power, girl." Feyre looked toward Nesta, her voice soft as she asked, "What exactly happened in the Cauldron?" Every image, thought, feeling pelted Nesta. Smothered her, exactly as she had to smother the rising power in her at her sister's question. No one spoke. They all just stared. Cassian cleared his throat. "Does it matter?" Everyone faced him, and Nesta nearly sagged with relief at the shift of their attention. Even as something kindled in her chest at his words. His defense of her. "It'd help us gain insight," Feyre said. "We can discuss it later ...," Cassian began, but Nesta straightened. "I..." They all halted. Twisted toward her. Her mouth went dry. Nesta swallowed against it, praying they didn't see the shaking hands she tucked under her thighs. Her thoughts swarmed her, each memory screaming, and she didn't know where to start, how to explain it-- Breathe. It calmed her mind whenever Cassian led her through their exercises. So she let herself inhale--then slowly exhale. Again. A third time. And into the silence, Nesta said, "I wasn't aware of what I took. Just that I was taking things the Cauldron did not want me to have. It seemed fitting, given what it was doing to me." There. That was all she could say, would say. But Feyre nodded, eyes shining bright with something Nesta could not place. Feyre said to Amren, "So it's highly possible that the Cauldron couldn't imbue Briallyn with the ability to track it. All it could do was give Briallyn the ability to track anything it Made, a sorry shadow of the original gift." The others nodded, and Nesta dared a look at Cassian, who gave her a soft smile. Like in saying the few words she'd managed to get out, she'd somehow done something ... worthy. Her chest tightened. Had she done so many unworthy things that her scant contribution earned that much praise? Nesta forced herself to ignore the nauseating thought as Amren continued, "If you were to gather all three objects, you could use the potency of their combined Made essence to track down the Cauldron, no matter where it is." "Not to mention gain three objects of terrible power," Azriel added grimly. "Capable of granting even a human army an advantage against the Fae." "Raise the dead," Cassian mused, his face tightening, any trace of that approving smile gone, "and you'd have an unstoppable force, able to march without rest or food. Open any door, and you could move that army of the dead wherever you wished. And with unrestrained influence, you could make any enemy territory and its people bow to you." Silence again filled the room. Nesta's heart thundered. "And all Koschei wants is to be free from his lake?" Rhys asked Azriel. But Amren answered. "No one really knows the full scope of the Trove's powers. Beyond freeing him from his lake, Koschei may very well know something about the Trove that we don't--some greater power that manifests when all three are united." Rhys looked at Azriel, who nodded grimly. "What is a death-lord?" Nesta asked into the silence. Their stares struck her like stones. Cassian answered, tapping the scar on the side of his neck. "I told you of Lanthys--the wound he gave me. He is literally deathless. Nothing can kill him. Koschei, too, cannot be killed. He is the master of his own death." He lowered his hand from the horrible scar. The gleam in his eye suggested that his thoughts had turned toward her own powers. She ignored the thing that writhed within her in answer and confirmation, cold fire licking up her spine. Mercifully, Cassian went on, "They are death-lords." The words hung in the air. Rhys cursed. "I'd forgotten about Lanthys." Cassian threw him a dry look, again tapping that scar. "I haven't." To Nesta's horror, Amren shuddered. Amren. Feyre cleared her throat. "So they are trying to find this Dread Trove in order to track down the Cauldron for Briallyn, and likely free Koschei in the process. And launch a war, with Beron as her ally, that would grant them whatever territories they wish. Or give some to Koschei, depending on what bargain he strikes with Briallyn--probably one to his advantage." "Again, Briallyn is well aware of Koschei's insidious influence," Azriel said. "If her strings are being pulled, it is only because she's allowing it to achieve her own ends." Cassian said, "So we've got them on one front, and Beron here, ready and eager to go into war with Briallyn so he might expand his own territory after the carnage halts." Nesta's head spun. She'd had no idea any of this was occurring. She'd picked up hints, but nothing that had confronted her with the knowledge of the danger that faced them. To be on the brink of such disaster again ... She shifted in her seat. Feyre asked Azriel, "Briallyn has not found the Dread Trove yet?" Azriel shook his head. "Not as far as I could tell. The Dread Trove was last rumored to be here in Prythian. That's all Koschei knows, apparently. We have that on our side at least. Briallyn won't risk coming over here--not yet. Even with Beron as an ally. And Koschei is bound to his lake. But they are readying Briallyn to come, gathering her realm's greatest spies and warriors. There was already a host of them at the queens' palace. Why Briallyn and Koschei took Eris's soldiers is something I still haven't figured out." He gestured to Cassian. "You need to meet with Eris." Cassian nodded. "I will. But we'll have to shore up the borders. Warn the courts. Tell them of Beron's plan. To hell with secrecy." "We'd expose Eris in doing that," Rhys countered. "And lose a valuable ally," he added when Cassian rolled his eyes. "Eris is a snake, but he's useful. His motives might be selfish and power-hungry, but he can offer us a great deal." He frowned, and said carefully, "I agree with Az. I want you to update Eris on this, as you promised." "Fine," Cassian agreed. "But what of warming the courts about the Trove?" "No," Rhys said. "We'd only risk one of them going after it. Beron would send out every warrior and spy of his to find it first. That he hasn't done so already suggests he doesn't know about the Trove, but we need Eris to confirm." Feyre asked, "Why didn't we look for the Trove when we were hunting for the Cauldron ourselves?" "The Book was easier to find," Amren said. "And it has been ten thousand years since anyone used the Trove. I assumed it was all at the bottom of an ocean." "So we find it," Cassian declared. "Any ideas?" "Made objects tend to not wish to be found by just anyone," Amren cautioned. "That they have faded from memory, that even I didn't think of them immediately in the fight against Hybern, suggests that perhaps they willed it that way. Wanted to stay hidden. True things of power have such gifts." "You say that as if the objects have a sentience," Cassian said. "They do," Amren said, storms drifting across her eyes. "They were Made in a time when wild magic still roamed the earth, and the Fae were not masters of all. Made objects back then tended to gain their own self- awareness and desires. It was not a good thing." Amren's face clouded with memory, and a chill whispered over Nesta's spine. Rhys mused, "Just as I'm able to alter a mind to forget, perhaps they have a similar gift." "But Briallyn is Made," Amren said. Nesta's mouth again went dry. "When Briallyn was Made, it likely removed from her the Dread Trove's glamour, for lack of a better term. Recognized her as kin. Where she might have glanced over a mention of the items before and never thought twice, now it stuck. Or perhaps called to her, presented itself in a dream." All of them, all at once, looked at Nesta. "You," Amren said quietly, "are the same. So is Elain." Nesta stiffened. "If they're all enchanting you to forget, how is it that Azriel was able to remember and bear the information here?" "Perhaps once you learn of it, recognize it, the spell is broken," Amren said. "Or perhaps the Dread Trove wants us to know of it now, for some dark reason of its own." The hair on Nesta's arms rose. Cassian shifted in his seat. "So we track down the Dread Trove--how?" Elain spoke from the doorway, having appeared so silently that they all twisted toward her, "Using me." <|title|>Chapter 21 <|startofchapter|>Nesta's head went silent as Elain's words finished sounding in the room. Feyre had twisted in her seat, face white with alarm. Nesta shot to her feet. "No." Elain remained in the doorway, her face pale but her expression harder than Nesta had ever seen it. "You do not decide what I can and cannot do, Nesta." "The last time we involved ourselves with the Cauldron, it abducted you," Nesta countered, fighting her shaking. She found the words, the weapons she sought. "I thought you didn't have powers anymore." Elain pursed her lips. "I thought you didn't, either." Nesta's spine straightened. No one spoke, but their attention lingered on her like a film on her skin. "You will not go looking for it." Amren said coolly, "So you look for it, girl." Nesta turned to the small female. "I don't know how to find anything." "Like calls to like," Amren countered. "You were Made by the Cauldron. You may track other objects Made by it as well, as Briallyn can. And because you are Made by it, you are immune to the influence and power of the Trove. You might use them, yes, but they cannot be used upon you." A glance to Elain. "Either of you." Nesta swallowed. "I can't." But to let Elain involve herself, jeopardize her safety-- Amren said, "You tracked the Cauldron--" "It nearly killed me. It trapped me like a bird in a cage." Elain said, "Then I will find it. I might require some time to ... reacquaint myself with my powers, but I could start today." "Absolutely not," Nesta spat, fingers curling at her sides. "Absolutely "Why?" Elain demanded. "Shall I tend to my little garden forever?" When Nesta flinched, Elain said, "You can't have it both ways. You cannot resent my decision to lead a small, quiet life while also refusing to let me do anything greater." "Then go off on adventures," Nesta said. "Go drink and fuck strangers. But stay away from the Cauldron." Feyre said, "It is Elain's choice, Nesta." Nesta whirled on her, ignoring the warning flicker of primal wrath in Rhys's stare. "Keep out of this," she hissed at her youngest sister. "I have no doubt you put these thoughts in her head, probably encouraging her to throw herself into harm's way--" Elain cut in sharply, "I am not a child to be fought over." Nesta's pulse pounded throughout her body. "Do you not remember the war? What we encountered? Do you not remember the Cauldron kidnapping you, bringing you into the heart of Hybern's camp?" "I do," Elain said coldly. "And I remember Feyre rescuing me." Roaring erupted in Nesta's head. For a heartbeat, it appeared that Elain might say something to soften the words. But Nesta cut her off, seething at the pity about to be thrown her way. "Look who decided to grow claws after all," she crooned. "Maybe you'll become interesting at last, Elain." Nesta saw the blow land, like a physical impact, in Elain's face, her posture. No one spoke, though shadows gathered in the corners of the room, like snakes preparing to strike. Elain's eyes brightened with pain. Something imploded in Nesta's chest at that expression. She opened her mouth, as if it could somehow be undone. But Elain said, "I went into the Cauldron, too, you know. And it captured me. And yet somehow all you think of is what my trauma did to you." Nesta blinked, everything inside her hollowing out. But Elain turned on her heel. "Find me when you wish to begin." The doors shut behind her. Every awful word Nesta had spoken hung in the air, echoing. Feyre said to her, gratingly gentle, "It wasn't an easy choice for me to ask Elain to endanger herself like this." Nesta twisted to Feyre. "Can't you find the Trove?" She hated each cowardly word, hated the fear in her heart, hated that in merely asking, she'd exposed her preference for Elain. "You've got all that magic, and you were Made yourself, even if it wasn't by the Cauldron. You trained--you are a warrior. Can't you find it?" Again, that silence. But a different kind. Like a thunderhead about to break. "No," Feyre said quietly. "I can't." She looked to Rhys, who nodded, his eyes shining. Everyone watched Feyre now. But Feyre's attention remained fixed upon Nesta. "I can't risk it." "Why?" Nesta snapped. "Because I'm pregnant." Silence fell. Silence, and then Cassian let out a whoop of such joy that it shattered the fraught silence into smithereens, leaping from his chair to tackle Rhys. They went down in a tangle of wings and dark hair, and then Amren was Saying to Feyre, light dancing in her eyes, "Congratulations, girl." Azriel stooped to press a kiss to Feyre's head--or an inch from it. "I knew that stupid shield wasn't just to practice something Helion taught you," Cassian was saying, giving Rhys a smacking kiss on the cheek before turning to Feyre and grabbing her to him. Rhysand relented on the shield enough that Cassian could wrap his arms around her, still laughing. And as Rhys dropped the shield, Feyre's scent filled the room. It was Feyre's usual scent, only--only something new. A smaller, softer scent, like a budding rose, lay within it. Cassian laughed. "No wonder you've been a moody bastard, Rhys. I suppose we're about to learn a whole new level of overprotective." Feyre glowered at him, then up at her mate. "We've already had discussions about this. The shield is a compromise." Amren smiled broadly. "What was his starting offer?" Feyre scowled. "That he never leave my side for the next ten months." The Fae took longer to grow children, Nesta had learned from poring over the books in the House's library during her initial weeks here. A month longer than a human pregnancy. "How far along are you?" Azriel asked, gazing at Feyre's still-flat stomach. She slid her fingers over it, as if anyone's attention there made her wish to protect the child inside. "Two months." Cassian pivoted toward Rhys. "You've been hiding this for two months?" Rhys threw him an arrogant smile. "We thought you'd all guess it by now, to be honest." Cassian laughed again. "How can we guess when you've got her bundled in that shield?" "Moody bastard, remember?" Cassian grinned, and said to Azriel, "We're going to be uncles." Feyre groaned. "Mother help this child." Azriel's own grin bloomed at that, but Feyre's gaze slid to Nesta. Nesta said quietly to her sister, "Congratulations." For she'd said nothing, had only been able to stand and watch them all, their joy and closeness, as if she were looking in through a window. But Feyre offered her a tentative smile. "Thank you. You'll be an aunt, you know." "Gods help this child indeed," Cassian muttered, and Nesta glared at him. She turned to Rhys and Feyre and found the former watching her carefully, the epitome of ease with his arm around his mate's shoulders--the gleam in his eye one of pure threat. Nesta let him see it then. That she bore no ill will toward Feyre or the babe. Some primal part of her understood that Rhys was not only male, but a Fae male, and he would eliminate any threats to his mate and child. That he'd do it slowly and painfully and then walk away from her shredded corpse without an ounce of regret. It was self-preservation, perhaps some new Fae instinct of her own, that had Nesta bowing her chin slightly, letting him see she meant no harm, would never hurt them. Rhys's own chin dipped, and that was that. Nesta said to Feyre, "Did you tell Elain?" Before Feyre could reply, Azriel said, "What about Mor?" Feyre smiled. "Elain was the only one who guessed. She caught me vomiting two mornings in a row." She nodded toward Azriel. "I think she's got you beat for secret-keeping." "I'll tell Mor when she returns from Vallahan," Rhys said. "Given your reaction, Cass, I don't trust that she can keep her excitement to herself if I tell her while she's there, even if she doesn't say anything to them. And I don't want a potential enemy knowing. Not yet." "Varian?" Amren asked. Nesta had never learned the story of how the female and the Summer Court's Prince of Adriata had become entwined. She supposed now she never would. "Not yet," Rhys repeated, shaking his head. "Not until Feyre's farther along." Nesta angled her head at her sister. "So you can't do magic while pregnant?" Feyre winced. "I can, but given my unusual set of gifts, I'm not sure how it might impact the baby. Winnowing is fine, but some other powers, when we're still so early in the pregnancy, could strain my body dangerously." Rhys's hand tightened on her shoulder. "It's a pain in the ass." Feyre flicked at the hand gripping her arm. "As much of a pain in the ass as he's become." Rhys winked at her. Feyre rolled her eyes. But then she said to Nesta, "Elain will need time to dust off her powers to try to See the Trove. But you, Nesta ... You could scry again." Rhys added, "As swiftly as possible. Time is not our ally." Nesta asked Amren, "You're not Made?" "Not as you were," Amren said. She gave Nesta a wicked grin. "Afraid?" Nesta ignored the taunt. Even Cassian's bright happiness had faded. "What choice do I have?" Nesta asked. If it was between her and Elain, there was no choice at all. She would always go first if it meant keeping Elain from harm. Even if she'd just hurt her sister more than she could stomach. "You do have a choice," Rhys said firmly. "You will always have a choice here." Nesta threw him a cool look. "I'll search for it." She glanced at her sister's stomach, the hand idly resting atop it. "Of course I'll search for it." Cassian wanted to have a word with Rhys about the Illyrian legions, so Nesta found herself walking to the front entry of the river house alone. She'd made it halfway down the hall when Feyre called her name, and Nesta paused, right in front of the painting of Ramiel. Feyre's smile was tentative. "I'll wait with you until he's done." Don't bother, Nesta almost said, but reined it in. They walked in silence to the main entry, all those paintings and portraits of everyone but her and their mother watching them. The quiet tightened, becoming nearly unbearable as they halted in the sprawling foyer. Nesta could think of nothing to say, nothing to do with herself. Until Feyre said, "It's a boy." Nesta whipped her head toward her sister. "The baby?" Feyre smiled. "I wanted you to know first. I told Rhys to wait until I'd told you, but ..." Feyre chuckled as renewed shouts of joy echoed down the hall. "I suppose he's telling Az and Cassian now." But Nesta needed a breath to sort through it: the offering of kindness Feyre had extended, what she had revealed--'"How can you possibly know its sex?" The smile faded from Feyre's face. "During the conflict with Hybern, the Bone Carver showed me a vision of the child I'd have with Rhys." "How did he know?" "I don't know," Feyre admitted, her hand again drifting to her stomach. "But I didn't realize how much I wanted a boy until I knew I'd bear one." "Likely because having sisters was so horrible for you." Feyre sighed. "That's not what I meant." Nesta shrugged. Feyre might say that, but the feeling was no doubt there. Everything that had just happened with Elain-- Feyre seemed to sense the direction of her thoughts. "Elain was right. We've become so focused on how her trauma impacted us that we forget she was the one who experienced it." "It was directed at me, not you." "I've been guilty of the same things, Nesta." Sorrow dimmed Feyre's eyes. "It was unfair for Elain to level that truth only at you." Nesta didn't have an answer to that, didn't know where to start. "Why not tell Elain about the baby's sex first?" "She discovered the pregnancy. I wanted you to know this part before anyone else." "I hadn't realized you were keeping score." Feyre gave her an exasperated look. "I'm not, Nesta. I just ... Do I need an excuse to share things with you? You're my sister. I wanted to tell you before anyone else. That's it." Nesta didn't have an answer to that, either. Thankfully, Cassian's voice filled the hallway as he bid his farewell to Rhys. "Good luck," Feyre said softly before rushing to meet a jubilant Cassian, and Nesta knew her sister didn't only mean with the Dread Trove. <|title|>Chapter 22 <|startofchapter|>"Do you think Nesta can find the Trove?" Azriel asked Cassian as they relaxed in the sitting room that separated their bedchambers, flames crackling in the hearth before them. The night had turned chill enough that they needed the fire, and Cassian, who'd always loved fall despite the pricks in the Autumn Court, savored the warmth. "I hope so," Cassian hedged. He couldn't stomach the thought of Nesta putting herself in danger, but he understood her motivations entirely. If he'd had to pick between sending one of his brothers into danger or doing it himself, he would always--always--choose himself. Though he'd winced at every harsh word that had come out of Nesta's mouth to Elain, he couldn't fault the fear and love behind her decision. Could only admire that she had stepped up--if not for the good of the world, then to keep her sister safe. Azriel said, "Nesta really should do a scrying." Cassian gazed across the space between their two armchairs. They'd sat in them, before this fire, so many times that it was an unspoken rule that Azriel's was the one on the left, closer to the window, and Cassian's the one to the right, closer to the door. A third sat to Azriel's left, usually for Rhys, and a fourth to Cassian's right, always for Mor. A lace-lined golden throw pillow adorned the fourth chair, a permanent mark of her ownership. Amren, for whatever reason, rarely stayed here long enough to see this room, so no chair had ever been held for her. "Nesta isn't up for a scrying," Cassian said. "We don't even know what power she has left." But Elain had confirmed it for everyone: both sisters still possessed their Cauldron-gifted powers. Whether they were as powerful as before, he had no idea. "You do know, though," Azriel countered. "You've seen it--even beyond when it glows in her eyes." Cassian hadn't told anyone about the step he'd found with the clear finger holes burned into it. He wondered if Azriel had somehow learned of them, the news brought to him on his shadows' whispers. "She's volatile right now. The last time she did a scrying, it ended badly. The Cauldron looked at her. And then took Elain." He'd seen every horrific memory flash before Nesta's eyes today. And though he understood that Elain had spoken true, claiming the trauma of that memory, Cassian knew firsthand the lingering horror and pain of a loved one stolen and hurt. Azriel stiffened. "I know. I helped rescue Elain, after all." Az hadn't so much as hesitated before going into the heart of Hybern's war-camp. Cassian leaned his head against the back of the chair, rustling his wings through the gaps crafted to accommodate them. "Nesta will scry on her own, eventually, if she's capable." "If Briallyn and Koschei find just one of the Dread Trove items--" "Let Nesta try it her way first." Cassian held Az's stare. "If we go in and order her to do it, it'll backfire. Let her exhaust her other options before she realizes only one is viable." Azriel studied his face, then nodded solemnly. Cassian blew out a breath, watching the flames leap and flutter. "We're going to be uncles," he said after a moment, unable to keep the wonder from his voice. Azriel's face filled with pride and joy. "A boy." It wasn't a guarantee that a High Lord's firstborn would be his heir. The magic sometimes took a while to decide, and often jumped around the birth order completely. Sometimes it found a cousin instead. Sometimes it abandoned the bloodline entirely. Or chose the heir in that moment of birth, in the echoes of a newborn's first cries. It wouldn't matter to Cassian, though, if Rhys's son inherited his world-shaking power, or barely a drop. It wouldn't matter to Rhys, either. To any of them. That boy was already loved. "I'm happy for Rhys," Cassian said quietly. "So am I." Cassian looked over at Az. "You think you'll ever be ready for one?" Ever be ready to confess to Mor what's in your heart? "I don't know," Azriel said. "Do you want a child?" "It doesn't matter what I want." Distant words--ones that prevented Cassian from prying further. He was still happy to be Mor's buffer with Azriel, but there'd been a change lately. In both of them. Mor no longer sat beside Cassian, draped herself over him, and Azriel ... those longing glances toward her had become few and far between. As if he'd given up. After five hundred years, he'd somehow given up. Cassian couldn't think why. Az asked, "Do you want a child?" Cassian couldn't stop the thought that flashed: of him and Nesta against the wall a level below, her hand rubbing him exactly the way he liked it, her moans like sweet music. He'd left her unsatisfied--she'd run off before he could make it even between the two of them. He'd gone up to Windhaven after the meeting earlier, and hadn't seen her at dinner. Wasn't even sure what the hell he'd say to her, how they'd have a conversation. It was like the unfinished bargain inked across their backs, that imbalance of pleasure. And a matter of what he unashamedly could call male pride. She had the upper hand now. Had looked so damned smug when she'd cut him: quick off the mark. His knee bounced, and he glowered at the flame. "Cassian?" He realized Azriel had asked him a question. Right--about children. "Of course I want children." He'd contemplated it often, what manner of family he'd build for himself, how he'd make sure his children never spent a moment thinking they were unloved and unwanted; never, ever spent a moment hungry or scared or cold or in pain. But no female had ever come along who'd tempted him enough to fight for that future. He supposed, deep down, that was what he was holding out for: the mating bond. What he'd seen between Feyre and Rhys. Cassian blew out another breath and got to his feet. Azriel lifted a silent brow. Cassian aimed for the door. He wouldn't be able to rest, to focus, until he evened the playing field. As he entered the hall, he muttered without looking back, "Tum a blind eye, chaperone." Curled up in bed, a book propped on the thick down comforter, Nesta was just getting to the sizzling first kiss in her latest novel when a knock thudded on her door. She slammed the book shut and sat up against the pillows. "Yes?" The handle turned, and there he was. Cassian still wore his leathers, the overlapping scales of them full of shadows that made him look like some great, writhing beast as he shut the door. He leaned against the carved oak, his wings rising high above his head like twin mountain peaks. "What?" She slid the book onto the nightstand, sitting up further. His eyes dipped to her sleeveless silk nightgown, then quickly returned to her face. "What?" she demanded again, angling her head. Her unbound hair slid over a shoulder, and she saw him mark that, too. His voice was rough as he said, "I've never seen you with your hair down." She always wore it braided across her head or pinned up. She frowned at the locks that flowed to her waist, the gold amongst the brown glimmering in the dim light. "It's a nuisance when it's down." "It's beautiful." Nesta couldn't stop her swallow as she lifted her gaze. His eyes were blazing, yet he remained leaning against the door, hands trapped behind his body. As if he were physically restraining himself. His scent drifted to her, darker, muskier than usual. She'd bet all the money she didn't have that it was the scent of his arousal. It set her pulse hammering, careening so far off the path of sanity that she scrambled after its vanishing leash. To let him affect her so easily, so greatly--unacceptable. She didn't dare look below his waist, not as she shaped her lips into a cool smile. "Here for more?" "I'm here to settle the debt between us." His words were guttural. Her toes curled beneath the blanket. But her voice remained surprisingly calm. "What debt?" "The one I owe you for last night." He spoke as if there was no room in him for teasing, for humor. His eyes drifted lower than her face, noting the hammering of her pulse. "We have unfinished business." She grappled for anything to guard against him. "Male pride is a thing of wonder." When he didn't respond, she threw another wall his way: "Why are you even here? You made it clear enough that last night was a mistake." He was having none of it. "I never said that." His attention remained fixed on her hammering pulse. "You didn't need to. I saw it in your eyes." His gaze snapped to hers. "The only mistake was that I came before I could taste you." Nesta knew he didn't mean her mouth. Or her skin. Cassian went on, "The only mistake was that you ran off before I could get on my knees." Breathing became difficult. "Won't your friends tell you this is a mistake?" She gestured to the air between them. "My friends have nothing to do with this. With what I want from you." He said it with such intent that her breasts pebbled. His eyes dipped again, and when he saw her nipples hard against the silk of her nightgown ... His entire being seemed to focus on it. On her. All five hundred years of being a trained warrior, an apex predator. All of it, narrowing on her. His appraisal enveloped her like a rush of wind, of fire. "What about training?" she breathed. "This stays out of training." His eyes had turned wholly dark. Her skin tightened, becoming almost painful as she went molten and throbbing between her legs. "Nesta." A note of pleading had entered his voice. He was trembling--the door behind him rattling with the force of his deteriorating self-control. She looked then. Below his waist. At what strained against his pants. Her head emptied out, and there was only him and her and the space between them. Cassian let out a growl, the sound a plea as well. She made herself say, "This stays out of training--and everything else. This is just sex." Something shifted in his expression, but he said, "Just sex." This was sure to be a mistake, sure to be something she paid for, suffered for. But she couldn't bring herself to deny him. Deny herself. Just for tonight, she'd allow it. So Nesta met his eyes again, took in every trembling, restrained inch, and said, "Yes." Cassian lunged for her, a beast freed of its cage, and she barely had time to twist toward the edge of the bed before his lips were on hers, devouring and claiming. Deep purring sounds vibrated from his chest through her fingers as she clawed off his jacket, his shirt, ripping through the fabric. He tore his lips from hers only long enough to pull his shirt away, the fabric snaring on his wings before falling to the floor. Then he was on her again, climbing onto the bed, and she spread her legs for him, letting his body fall into the cradle between her thighs. She couldn't stop her moan as he drove his hips into hers, the leather of his pants sliding against her. He plunged his tongue into her mouth, the kiss like a brand, one hand sliding up her bare thigh, tugging her nightgown with it. When he reached her hip and still had found no underwear, he hissed. Looked to where he pressed his hardness against her and realized that only the leather of his pants separated him from her wetness. She was shaking, and not from fear, as he took a trembling hand and slid her nightgown higher. Pulled it up to her navel and then stared at her, bare and gleaming, pressed against the bulge in his pants. His chest heaved, and she waited for that brutal, demanding touch, but he only leaned down and pressed a kiss to her throat. Tender, coaxing. Cassian pressed another to her shoulder, and she shivered. Shivered more as he dragged his tongue over the spot. He kissed the hollow of her throat. Licked it. He slipped the straps of her nightgown down her arms. Kissed her collarbones. With each kiss, he pulled down the neck of her nightgown further. Until his breath warmed her bare breasts. Cassian let out a sound from the back of his throat, from his gut. Like some sort of starved, tormented creature. He stared at her breasts, and she couldn't breathe under that burning gaze. Couldn't breathe as his head dipped and he wrapped his lips around her nipple. Nesta arced off the bed, a breathless sound rupturing from her. Cassian only repeated the movement on her other breast. And then raked his teeth across the sensitive peak before clamping down lightly. She moaned then, tipping her head back, thrusting her chest up toward him in silent plea. Cassian let out that dark laugh and returned to her other breast, teeth grazing, teasing, biting. She strained her hands toward him, toward where he'd gone still between her legs. She needed him--now. In her hand or her body, she didn't care. But Cassian only pulled away. Pulled up, and knelt before her. Surveyed her spread beneath him, her nightgown a bunch of silk around her middle, everything else bared to him. His own feast to devour. "I owe you a debt," he said in that guttural voice that made her writhe. He watched her hips undulate, and braced his large, powerful hands on either thigh. He waited for her to signal that she understood what he intended. What she'd dreamed of for so long, in the darkest hours of the night. In a choked whisper, she said, "Yes." Cassian gave her a feral, purely male smile. And then his hands tightened on her bare thighs, spreading them wider. His head lowered, and all she could see was his dark hair, gilded by the lamps, and his exquisite wings, rising above them both. He didn't waste time with gentle touches and tastes. Parting her with one hand, he dragged his tongue clear up her center. The world fractured, re-formed, and fractured again. He cursed against her wetness, and he reached down with his other hand to adjust himself in his pants. He licked her again, lingering at the spot atop the apex of her legs. Sucking it into his mouth, teeth nipping, before he withdrew. She arched, unable to stop the moan breaking from her throat. Cassian's tongue ran downward in an unhurried sweep, and he pressed a hand to her abdomen, stilling her, as he slid his tongue straight into her core. It curled into her, driving deeper than she'd expected, and she couldn't think, couldn't do anything but luxuriate in it, in him-- "You taste," he growled against her, making his way up again toward the bundle of nerves in short, teasing licks, "even more delicious than I dreamed." Nesta whimpered, and he flicked his tongue there. Her whimper turned to acry, and he laughed against her and flicked his tongue again. Release became a shimmering veil, just beyond her grasp but drifting closer. "So wet," he breathed, and licked at her entrance, as if determined to consume every drop of her. "Are you always this wet for me, Nesta?" She wouldn't allow him the satisfaction of the truth. But she couldn't think of a lie, not with his tongue pumping in and out of her, coaxing her toward but still denying her the pressure and relentless pounding she so badly needed. Cassian snickered, as if he knew the answer anyway. He licked her, his silken hair brushing over her belly, and looked up to meet her gaze. As their eyes locked, he slid a finger into her. She cried out, and he trailed a hand from her thigh to hold her open again as he licked at that spot while his finger pumped in and out of her in a teasingly slow rhythm. More--she wanted more. She undulated her hips against him, hard enough to drive his finger deeper. "Greedy," he murmured onto her, and withdrew his finger nearly to its tip. Only to add a second finger as he plunged back in. Nesta let go entirely then. Let go of sanity and any pride as he filled her with those two fingers. He sucked and nibbled, and release gathered around her like an iridescent mist. Cassian growled again, given over to whatever need drove him, and the reverberations of the sound echoed into places of her that had never been touched. In and out his fingers slid, stretching and filling, all while he tasted and savored. Nesta rode his hand, his face, grinding into him with abandon. "Holy gods." Cassian's teeth grazed against her. "Nesta." The sound of her name on his lips against her most sensitive place sent her mind scattering into eternity. She bowed off the bed with the force of her climax, and he became ravenous, fingers pumping and pumping, tongue and lips moving against her, like he'd devour her pleasure whole. He didn't stop until she'd collapsed against the mattress, until she was limp and reeling and trying to piece her mind back together. The slide of his fingers out of her left her empty and aching, the removal of his tongue and mouth from between her legs like a cold kiss. Cassian was panting, still hard as he rose up and stared at her. She couldn't move--couldn't remember how to move. No one had ever done that to her. Made her feel like that. It had knocked the breath from her, the thoroughness of her pleasure. Like the world could be remade in the force of what had erupted from her. She just watched the carved, heaving muscle of his chest, his wings, his handsome face. Nesta reached for the cock she was dying to feel, to taste, but he backed off the bed. Cassian grabbed his shirt and aimed for the door. "We're even now." <|title|>Chapter 23 <|startofchapter|>Watching Nesta climax had been as close to a religious experience as Cassian had ever had. It had rocked him to his very core, and only pure will and pride had kept him from spilling in his pants again. Only pure will and pride had made him back off the bed when she'd reached for him. Only pure will and pride had made him leave the room, when all he'd wanted was to plunge his cock into that sweet, tight warmth and ride her until they were both screaming. He couldn't get her perfect taste out of his mouth. Not as he washed for bed. Not as he pumped himself dry, soaking his sheets. Not as he ate breakfast. Couldn't stop feeling the clamp of her around his fingers, like a burning, silken fist. He'd washed his hands a dozen times by the time he faced Nesta in the training ring, and he could still smell her there, could still feel her, taste her. Cassian banished the thought from his mind. Along with the knowledge that Nesta might have felt good on his fingers, on his tongue, but it would be nothing compared to how she'd feel on his cock. She'd been tight enough that he knew it'd be paradise and madness--his undoing. And she'd been so drenched for him that he knew he'd do deplorable things to be allowed to taste that wetness again. The Nesta who emerged into the training pit was the one he saw every morning, though. No hint of a blush, or a sparkle in her eye to tell him she'd enjoyed herself. But maybe that was because Azriel walked in behind her. His brother took one look at him and smirked. Az knew. Could either scent Cassian on Nesta, or could already scent Nesta on Cassian, even from across the ring. Cassian didn't regret what he'd done with her. Not at all. And maybe it was the fact that it had been two years since he'd had any sort of sex, but he couldn't remember the last time he'd been so ridden by his own base need. Some small, quiet part of his brain whispered otherwise. He ignored it. Had ignored it for a long time now. "Morning, Az," Cassian said cheerfully. He nodded to Nesta. "Nes. How'd you sleep?" Her eyes flashed with the anger that was like kindling to his own, but then she smiled coolly. "Like a babe." It was to be a game, then. Which one of them could pretend that nothing had happened the longest. Which one of them might seem the least affected. Cassian threw her a grin that declared he was in. And he'd make her crawl before the end. Nesta merely began to unlace her boots. He jerked his chin toward Azriel. "Why are you up here?" "I thought I'd do some training myself before heading out for the day," Az said, his shadows lingering in the archway, as if fearful of the bright sunlight in the ring. "I'm not interrupting anything, am I?" Cassian could have sworn Nesta's fingers stalled on the laces of her boots. He drawled, "Nothing at all. We're starting on hand-to-hand combat." "My least favorite," Azriel said. Toeing off her boots, Nesta asked, "Why?" Az observed her, striding barefoot into the ring. "I like swordplay better. Hand-to-hand is too close for my tastes." "He doesn't like getting a face full of someone's armpit sweat," Cassian said, chuckling. Azriel rolled his eyes but didn't deny it. Nesta watched the shadowsinger with a frankness that most people shied from. Azriel returned the look with a stillness that most people ran from. Even Feyre had been hesitant around Az initially, but Nesta considered him with the same unflinching assessment she laid upon everyone. Maybe that was why Azriel had never said a bad word about Nesta. Never seemed inclined to start a fight with her. She saw him, and was not afraid of him. There weren't many people who fit that bill. Nesta said, "Show me how you two fight." Azriel blinked, but she added, "I want to know what I'm up against." When neither of them said anything, she asked, "What I saw in battle was different, wasn't it?" "Yes," Cassian said. "A variation of what we do here, but it requires a different sort of fighting." Shadows clouded her eyes, as if the memory of those battlefields haunted her. He said, "We won't start battle training for a while yet." Years, probably. Az was watching her as if he, too, had marked the shadows in her eyes. Cassian asked him, "You want to do a little sparring? It's been a while since I wiped the floor with you." He needed to get the energy out--the lingering, addling desire from last night. Needed to burn it from his body through movement and breath. Az rolled a shoulder, unruffled and calm, eyes glittering as if he marked Cassian's need to expel that coiled-up energy. But Az peeled off his jacket and his shirt, leaving the Siphons atop the backs of his hands, anchored in place around the wrist and through a loop on his middle finger. Cassian did the same as he removed his own shirt. Nesta's stare seared him from across the ring. Cassian might have flexed his stomach muscles as he approached the chalk-lined circle. Az shook his head and muttered, "Pathetic, Cass." Cassian winked, nodding to his brother's equally muscled stomach. "Where have you been exercising these days?" "Here," Azriel said. "At night." After he returned from spying on their enemies. "Can't sleep?" Cassian took up a fighting stance. A shadow curled around Azriel's neck, the only one brave enough to face the sunlight. "Something like that," he said, and settled into his own stance across from Cassian. Cassian let it drop, knowing Az would have told him already if he'd wanted to share what had been hounding him enough to exercise at night, rather than in the morning with them. Cassian explained to Nesta, who stood a few feet outside the chalk ring, "We'll go full speed, then stop, and I'll break it down for you. All right?" He needed to expunge this energy before he'd dare let himself be that close to her. Nesta crossed her arms, face so neutral he wondered for a moment if he'd dreamed some wild fantasy last night of his head between her legs. Shaking off the thought, he again looked to Az. Their eyes met, Az's face as unreadable as Nesta's, and Cassian gave a nod. Begin. It started with footwork: a slow circling, an assessment, waiting for the other to reveal his first move. Cassian knew Az's tricks. Knew which side Az favored and how he liked to strike. The problem was, Az knew all of his techniques and shortcomings, too. They circled each other again, Cassian's feet pounding a steady beat on the dry ground. "Well?" he asked Az. "Why don't you show me what all that nighttime brooding has resulted in?" Az's mouth curved. He refused to take the bait. The sun beat down on them, warming Cassian's bare skin and hair. "Ts this really all it is?" Nesta asked. "Circling and taunting?" Cassian didn't dare look her way. Not even for an instant. As soon as he so much as blinked at her, Azriel would strike, and strike hard. But-- Cassian grinned. And glanced toward Nesta. Az fell for his deception, launching toward him at last. Cassian, waiting for it, met the fist Az sent flying for his face, blocking and deflecting and counterstriking. Az caught the blow, ducked the second Cassian had waiting, and aimed one for Cassian's exposed ribs. Cassian blocked, counterpunched, and then the sparring unfolded. Fists and feet and wings, punch and block, kick and stomp, breath sawing out of them as he and Az tried to break past each other's defenses. Neither of them put the full force of their bodies into the blows--not the way they'd do in a real brawl, when one punch could shatter a jaw. But they used enough power to make Cassian's ribs bleat at the impact, to make Az whoosh out a breath as Cassian landed a lucky hit to his stomach. Az was spared from having the air knocked out of him by twisting, otherwise the fight would have ended right then and there. Around and around the ring, fists flying, teeth bared in fierce grins, they lost themselves to sweat and sun and breathing. They'd been born for such things, endured centuries of training that had honed their bodies into instruments of violence. To allow their bodies to do just what they wished was its own sort of freedom. Faster and faster they fought, and even Cassian's breathing became labored. Though Cassian had more bulk, Azriel was quick as hell--they were evenly matched. They might be at this for hours, if they were truly facing each other as enemies. Might have been at it for days, if they'd been opponents in one of the old wars, where entire battles had come to a standstill to watch great heroes go head-to-head. But time wasn't unlimited, and he did have a lesson to get through with Nesta. "Right," Cassian panted through gritted teeth as he blocked Az's kick and bounced a step back, circling again. "Whoever lands the next blow wins." "That's ridiculous," Az panted back. "We go until one of us eats dirt." Az had a vicious competitive streak. It wasn't boastful and arrogant, the way Cassian knew he himself was prone to be, or possessive and terrifying like Amren's. No, it was quiet and cruel and utterly lethal. Cassian had lost track of how many games they'd played over the centuries, with one of them certain of a win, only for Az to reveal some master strategy. Or how many games had been reduced to only Rhys and Az left standing, battling it out over cards or chess until the middle of the night, when Cassian and Mor had given up and started drinking. They circled again, but Az snapped his head toward Nesta, eyes wide. Cassian looked, heart leaping into his throat-- Azriel struck, a punch to the jaw hard enough that Cassian staggered. Reeling, steadying himself, he cursed. Az let out a soft laugh, eyes flickering. He'd wielded the same deception that Cassian had used at the start of this, played the one card that would get Cassian to remove his focus from an opponent. It had happened before--against Hybern. Nesta had screamed his name, and even in the midst of the battlefield, he'd abandoned his soldiers and rushed for her, not caring about anything other than reaching her, saving her. Only, Nesta had saved him. And she had screamed his name to get him out of the Cauldron's range. His soldiers had been blasted apart a moment later. And when he'd looked at her face, he'd understood something--something that the past year and a half had shredded apart and turned cold. Cassian rolled his shoulder, hand at his jaw as he said to Az, "Bastard." Az laughed again, and they turned toward Nesta. She remained a pillar of cool calm, but a line of color stained her cheeks. There was no wind to blow her scent to him, but from the way her throat bobbed as she glanced between them ... Azriel let out a cough and walked toward the water station. "You're drooling," Cassian said to her, and Nesta went rigid. "If there was anything enticing," she hissed, entering the ring, "it was seeing Azriel punch your face." Cassian motioned for her to get into her fighting stance. "Keep telling yourself that, Nes." "What do you know of the Dread Trove?" "The what?" Gwyn turned from the desk where Nesta had found the priestess singing softly to herself, situated just outside Merrill's shut office door. "The Dread Trove," Nesta said, wincing at her sore body's protestations as she took a seat on the edge of Gwyn's desk. "Three ancient artifacts ..." Gwyn shook her head. "I've never heard of such a thing." Nesta was still sweaty from the lesson with Cassian and Azriel. They'd walked her through the punches and kicks and steps they'd done with ease, though neither had laughed when she was clumsy or ungraceful. Seeing them spar had been overwhelming. Their beautiful forms, tattooed and scarred and carved with muscle, gleaming with sweat as they fought with a viciousness and intelligence she'd never seen ... She'd been sweating herself when they'd finished, wondering what it'd be like to be between those two male bodies, letting them turn all that lethal attention on worshipping her. Elain would faint to hear such thoughts. And to hear that Nesta had already had two males in her bed not once but twice, and had enjoyed every second of it. But the males Nesta had shared herself with hadn't looked like Cassian and Azriel. Hadn't been Cassian and Azriel. Nesta had made herself focus during the lesson, but as soon as she'd left them in the training ring, filthy thoughts had poured in, leaving her half- distracted while she'd walked down to the library. The thought of Cassian pumping into her mouth while Azriel pounded into her from behind, the two of them working her in tandem-- Talking to Gwyn about the Dread Trove had sobered her up fast enough. "It seems like the Trove has a glamour to make people forget that it exists," Nesta said to Gwyn, and succinctly explained what it was, along with vague details about why it was wanted. She didn't mention Queen Briallyn, or Koschei, or the Cauldron. Only that the Trove must be found quickly. And that Gwyn should not mention it to anyone. Nesta supposed that in doing so, she directly disobeyed Rhys's order for silence, but ... to hell with him. When she was done, Gwyn was wide-eyed, her face so pale that her freckles stood out in stark relief. "And you must find it?" "I don't have the faintest idea where to begin looking. Which one to find first." Gwyn chewed on her bottom lip. "We do have an extensive card- cataloging system," she mused idly, but peered toward the stacks beyond them, to the open pit at the bottom of the library. "But they don't list what's below Level Seven." "I know." Gwyn angled her head. "So why come to me?" "You're clearly good at what you do, if you're working with someone as demanding as Merrill. If you have a spare moment, any help would be appreciated. Or just point me in a direction." "Let me finish proofing this chapter and then I'll see what I can discover." Nesta offered a tight smile. "Thank you." Gwyn waved a hand. "Finding objects to help our court protect the world is rather exciting. About as exciting as I'm willing to get these days, but it shall be an adventure." "You could come to training if you want another sort of adventure," Nesta said carefully. Gwyn offered her a tight smile. "That's not for me, I'm afraid." "Why not?" Gwyn gestured to Nesta's fighting leathers, the overlapping scales. "I'm not a warrior." "Neither am I. But you could be." Gwyn shook her head. "I don't think so. If I wished to be a warrior, I would have gone that route as a child. Instead I offered myself as an acolyte --and that is what I am." "You don't have to give up one thing to be the other. Training is exercise. Learning to breathe and stretch and fight. Aren't you researching Valkyries for Merrill? That might even give you further insight." Nesta patted a thigh. "And I already have muscle building up. Two weeks, and I can tell the difference." "Why would a priestess need muscular thighs?" Nesta narrowed her eyes as Gwyn went back to her work. "Is it Cassian?" "Cassian is a good and honorable male." "I know he is." She'd always known it. She pressed, "But is it Cassian's presence that makes you hesitate?" There had been no hint this morning as to what had gone on between them last night. As if the debt between them had been paid, and he had no further interest in touching her. Like she was an itch scratched, and that was it. Or perhaps he had not enjoyed it as she had. It unsettled her, that she spent so much time thinking about it. Gwyn didn't answer, and Nesta knew she had no right to push, not when color stole over Gwyn's cheeks and her head bowed slightly. Shame-- it was shame and fear. Something in Nesta's chest tightened as she began to walk away. "All right. Let me know if you learn anything regarding the Trove." Nesta mulled the conversation over during the hours she worked. When she checked the sign-up sheet as she left the library at sundown, no names had been added. She felt Clotho's eyes on her as she surveyed the empty page. Nesta at last turned toward the priestess, seated at her desk with her hands folded before her. Silence stretched between them, but Nesta said nothing as she left. She went to the stairwell rather than to her room or the dining room, and stared down into the curving redness of the steps. Nesta began the descent, slower this time, contemplating each placement of her foot. Let each step downward be a thought, a piece of one of Amren's puzzles, that she sifted through. Down and down she went, turning over each word and glance from Gwyn during the time Nesta had worked in the library. Step to step, she told herself with each burning, trembling movement of her legs. Step to step to step. Again, she replayed the conversation. Each step was a different word, or motion, or scent. Nesta was on step two thousand when she halted. She knew what she had to do. <|title|>Chapter 24 <|startofchapter|>Five days later, Cassian sat before the desk of the library's high priestess and watched her enchanted pen move. He'd met Clotho a few times over the centuries--found she had a dry, wicked sense of humor and a soothing presence. He'd made a point not to stare at her hands, or at the face he'd only seen once, when Mor had brought her in so long ago. It had been so battered and bloody it hadn't looked like a face at all. He had no idea how it had healed beneath the hood. If Madja had been able to save it in a way she hadn't been able to save Clotho's hands. He supposed it didn't matter what she looked like, not when she had accomplished and built so much with Rhys and Mor within this library. A sanctuary for females who'd endured such unspeakable horrors that he was always happy to carry out justice on their behalf. His mother had needed a place like this. But Rhys had established it long after she'd left this world. He wondered if Azriel's mother had ever considered coming here, or if he'd ever pushed her to. "Well, Clotho," he said, leaning back in the chair, surrounded by the sounds of rustling parchment and the robes of the priestesses like fluttering wings, "you asked for an audience?" Her pen made a flourish as it finished what she'd been writing. I have asked Nesta twice now not to practice in the library, and she has disregarded my request. For five days, she has blatantly ignored my commands to stop. Cassian's brows rose. "She's practicing down here?" Again, the pen scraped over the paper. He glanced to the open pit to his left, as if he'd spot Nesta down there. A week had passed since that madness in her bedroom, and they had not spoken of it, done nothing further. He wasn't entirely sure it would be wise to continue. In addition to the grueling set of exercises to hone her body, Cassian had walked her through the minutiae of hand-to-hand combat, individual steps and movements that could be assembled in endless combinations. Learning each of those steps required not just strength but focus--to remember which movement correlated with the numbered step, to let her body start to remember all on its own: a jab, a hook, a high kick ... He'd lost count of how many times he'd caught her muttering at her body to remember so she didn't need to think so hard. But he knew she liked the punches. The kicks. A light shone in her face as her body flowed through the motions, a slingshot of strength all narrowing to a point of impact. He'd always felt that way when he did the movements correctly, like his body and mind and soul had lined up and begun singing. Clotho wrote, Nesta has practiced constantly of late. "Has she done any damage?" No. But I asked her to stop, and she has not. He suppressed his smile. Perhaps the morning lessons weren't demanding enough. "Is her work suffering for it?" No. That's beside the point. His mouth twisted to the side. Clotho wrote, I need you to put a stop to this. "Does it bother the others?" It distracts them, to see someone kicking and punching at shadows. Cassian had to duck his head so she wouldn't read the amusement in his eyes. "I'll talk to her. Is she down there now?" He nodded to the sloping ramp. "With your permission, of course." This was their safe harbor. It didn't matter if he was a member of Rhys's court, or that he'd come here before. Every time, he asked permission. He'd only ever failed to do so once: when Hybern's Ravens had attacked. Yes. I give you permission to enter. Nesta is on Level Five. Perhaps you shall manage to get through to her. Taking that as his cue, Cassian rose. "You do know this is Nesta Archeron we're talking about? She does nothing unless she wishes to. And she's the least likely to listen to me." Clotho huffed a laugh. She has a will of iron. "Of steel." He smiled. "Good seeing you, Clotho." You as well, Lord Cassian. "Just Cassian," he said, as he had said so many times now. You are a lord in good deeds. It is not a title born, but earned. He bowed his head as he said thickly, "Thank you." It took him until he reached the section where Clotho had said Nesta would be to shake off the high priestess's words. What they meant to him. The scuffing steps greeted him first, then the steady, rhythmic breathing he'd come to know so intimately. Cassian made his breathing match it, turned his own steps silent, and peered into the next row of stacks. Anyone walking along the ramp would only have to look to the right to see Nesta standing there, in a near-perfect fighting stance, throwing punches toward the shelf. She'd picked five books as targets and worked through each punch toward them as if they were the parts on a body he'd shown her where to strike. Then she halted, blew out a breath and brushed back a strand of errant hair, and straightened the books before returning to the metal cart behind her. "You're still dropping your elbow," he said, and she whirled, falling back against the cart with enough surprise that he swallowed his laugh. He'd never seen Nesta Archeron so ... ruffled. She lifted her chin as she stalked toward him. He watched every movement of her legs. She'd stopped throwing her weight onto her right leg so much, and muscles shifted in her thighs, sleek and strong. Three weeks might not be much time for a human body to pack on muscle, but she was High Fae now. "I'm not dropping my elbow," she challenged, emerging from the row of stacks and into the flat area before the slope of the ramp. "I just saw you do it twice with that right hook." She leaned against the end of a long shelf. "I assume Clotho sent you to reprimand me." He shrugged. "I didn't know you were so invested in the training that you kept at it down here." Her eyes practically glowed in the dimness. "I'm tired of being weak. Of depending on others to defend me." Fair enough. "Before I dispense with the lecture about ignoring Clotho's requests, let me just say that--" "Show me." Nesta stepped away from the shelf and squared off against him. "Show me where I'm dropping my elbow." He blinked at the rippling intensity in her face. Then he swallowed. Swallowed, because there she was: a glimpse of that person he'd known before the war with Hybern had ended. A glimmer of her, like a mirage-- like if he looked at it too long, she'd slip away and vanish. So Cassian said, "Get into your stance." Nesta obeyed. Hoping Clotho wouldn't come shove him over the railing for disobeying her orders, he said, "All right. Throw the right hook." Nesta did so. And dropped her damn elbow. "Get back into position." She did, and he asked, "May I?" Nesta nodded, and kept perfectly still as he made minute adjustments to the angle of her arm. "Punch again. Slowly." She heeded him, and his hand wrapped around her elbow as it began to dip. "See? Keep this up." He maneuvered her arm back into starting position. "Don't forget to flow the weight through your hips." He took her arm, keeping a good foot of distance between their bodies, and moved it through the punch. "Like this." "All right." Nesta reset herself, and he took a step away. Without his order, she did the punch again. Perfectly. Cassian whistled. "Do that with more force and you'll shatter a male's jaw," he said with a crooked grin. "Give me a combination one-two, then four-five-three, then one-one-two." Nesta's brows bunched as she reset herself. Her feet shifted into position, grounding her weight into the stone floor. And then she moved, and it was like watching a river, like watching the wind cut through a mountain. Not perfect, but close. "If you did that against an opponent," Cassian said, "they'd be on the ground, gasping for air." "And then I'd make the kill." "Yes, a sword through the heart would finish the job. But if you struck their chest hard enough with that final punch, you might make one of their lungs collapse. On a battlefield, you'd opt for either the killing blow with a sword or just leave them there, unable to move, for someone else to finish off while you face the next opponent." She nodded, as if this all seemed like perfectly normal conversation. Like he was giving her gardening tips. "All right." Cassian cleared his throat and tucked back his wings, "so, no more practicing in the library. The next person Clotho asks to scold you probably won't be someone you feel like talking to." Nesta's eyes darkened as she considered which of her least favorite people it would be, and she nodded again. His task done, he said, "Give me one more combination." He rattled off the order. Her smile was nothing short of feline as she did just that. And her right hook didn't so much as bob downward. "Good," he said, and turned toward the ramp that would lead him out. He startled at what he beheld: priestesses stopped along the railings on several different levels, staring toward them. Toward Nesta. At his attention, they instantly began walking or working or shelving books. But a young priestess with coppery-brown hair--the only one of them with no hood or stone--lingered at the rail the longest. Even from a level below and across the pit, he could see that her large eyes were the color of shallow, warm water. They were wide for a moment before she, too, quickly vanished. Cassian looked back to Nesta, who met his stare with near-simmering eyes. "Your right hook was perfect this morning," he murmured. "Yes." "But not when I watched you in the stacks." "I figured you'd correct me." Shock and delight slammed into him. She'd moved out of the stacks before she let him do so. Into plain view. So they would all see him teaching her. He gaped at her. "You can tell Clotho I won't need to practice in the library anymore," Nesta said mildly, and turned back down the row. She'd known Clotho and the others would never invite him, and never go up to the ring to see what he could do. How he'd teach them. So she'd shown the priestesses what she was learning, day after day. More than that, she'd pissed off Clotho enough that the priestess had ordered him down here. Where Nesta had used him in a demonstration. Not for herself, but for the priestesses who'd drifted over to watch. Cassian let out a soft laugh. "Crafty, Archeron." Nesta lifted a hand over a shoulder in farewell as she reached her cart. They'd needed to see it, Nesta realized. What Cassian was like when he taught her. That there was touching, but it was always with her permission, and always professional. Needed to see how he never mocked her, only gently corrected. And needed to see what he'd taught her. Hear him say precisely what she could do with all those punching and kicking combinations. What the priestesses might learn to do. But that evening, as Nesta left, the sign-up sheet remained blank. She looked back at Clotho, who sat at her desk, as she always did, from dawn until dusk. If the priestess gathered that she'd been played, she didn't let on. But there was something like sorrow leaking from Clotho, as if she, too, had wanted to see that sheet filled today. Nesta didn't know why it mattered. Why Clotho's sorrow knocked the wind from her, but then Nesta was moving, up through the House to the ten thousand steps. Perhaps she was good for nothing after all. Perhaps she'd been a fool to think that this trick might convince them. Maybe physical training wasn't what they required to overcome their demons, and she'd been arrogant enough to assume she knew what they needed. Down and down the stairs Nesta walked, the walls pressing in. She only made it to stair nine hundred before she turned around, her steps as heavy as if they'd been weighed with lead blocks. Nesta was still sweating and breathing hard when she stumbled into her room and found a book on the nightstand. She raised a brow at the title. "This isn't your usual sort of romance," she said to the room. It wasn't a romance at all. It was an old bound manuscript called The Dance of Battle. Nesta said, "You can take this one back, thank you." The last thing she wanted to read at night was some dreary old text about war strategy. The House did no such thing, and Nesta sighed and picked up the manuscript, the black leather binding so age-worn it was butter soft. A familiar smell drifted to her from the pages. "You didn't leave this for me, did you?" The House replied by plopping down a stack of romances, as if to say, This is what I would have chosen. Nesta peered at the manuscript, full of Cassian's scent, as if he'd read it a thousand times. He'd left it for her. Deemed her worthy of whatever lay inside. Nesta perched on the edge of the bed and thumbed open the text. It was midnight when she took a break from reading The Dance of Battle and rubbed her temples. She hadn't put it down, not even to eat dinner at her desk, holding it with one hand while she devoured her stew with the other. It was astonishing how much of the art of warfare was like the social manipulation her mother had insisted she learn: picking battlegrounds, finding allies amongst the enemies of one's enemies ... Some of it was wholly new, of course, and such a precise way of thinking that she knew she'd have to read the manuscript many times to fully grasp its lessons. She'd been aware that Cassian knew how to lead armies. Had watched him do so with unflinching precision and cleverness. But reading the manuscript, she realized she had never understood just how much advanced thinking went into planning battles and wars. Nesta set the manuscript on her nightstand and lay back against her pillows. She pictured Cassian on a battlefield, as he'd been that day he'd gone up against a Hybern commander and thrown a spear so hard the male had been hurled from his horse upon impact. He departed from the manuscript's advice in only one way: he fought on the front lines with his soldiers, rather than commanding from the rear. She let her thoughts drift for a time, until they snared upon another tangle of thorns. Did it matter if the priestesses didn't show up for training? Beyond her own reluctance to concede failure, did it matter? It did. Somehow, it did. She had failed in every aspect of her life. Utterly and spectacularly failed, and keeping others from realizing it had been her main purpose. She had shut them out, had shut herself out, because the weight of all those failures threatened to shatter her into a thousand pieces. Nesta rubbed her face with her hands. Sleep was a long time coming. Sweat was still running down her body when Nesta entered the library the next afternoon, aiming for the ramp to take her down to where she'd left her cart. She didn't have the courage to look at the empty sign-up sheet. To rip it down. She didn't have the courage to look at Clotho and admit her defeat. She kept walking. But Clotho halted her with an upraised hand. Nesta swallowed. "What?" Clotho pointed behind Nesta, her gnarled finger indicating the doorway. No, the pillar. And it was not sorrow leaking from the priestess, but something like buzzing excitement. Something that made Nesta whirl on her heel and stride for the pillar. A name had been scrawled on the sheet. One name, in bold letters. One name, ready for tomorrow's lesson. GWYN <|title|>Chapter 25 <|startofchapter|>"Stop looking so nervous," Cassian muttered out of the corner of his mouth. "I'm not nervous," Nesta muttered back, even as she bounced on her feet, trying not to stare toward the open archway as the clock ticked toward nine. "Just relax." He straightened his jacket. "You're the one fidgeting," she hissed. "Because you're making me fidget." Steps scuffed on the stone beyond the archway, and Nesta's breath rushed from her in a wave she didn't realize she was holding back as Gwyn's coppery-brown hair appeared. In the sunlight, the color of her hair was extraordinary, strands of gold glinting, and her teal eyes were a near-perfect match to the stones the other priestesses wore. Gwyn beheld them standing in the center of the ring and stopped short. The tang of her fear set Nesta approaching. "Hello." Gwyn's hands were shaking as she took another step into the ring and peered into the open bowl of the sky. The first time she'd been outside--truly outside--in years. Cassian, to his credit, moved to the rack of wooden practice weapons that he'd claimed they wouldn't be using for months, and pretended to adjust them. Gwyn swallowed. "I, um--I realized on the way up here that I don't have proper clothes." She gestured to her pale robes. "I suspect these will not be ideal." Cassian said without looking over, "I can teach you in the robes, if you wish. Whatever's most comfortable." Gwyn offered him a tight smile. "I'll see how today's lesson goes and then decide. We wear the robes mostly from tradition, not strict rules." She met Nesta's gaze again as she smiled. "I forgot how it feels to have the full sun upon my head." She peered up again. "Forgive me if I spend some time gawking at the sky." "Of course," Nesta said. She hadn't encountered Gwyn yesterday after seeing that she'd signed up for this morning's lesson, but she'd been almost afraid to--worried that one accidentally uttered sour remark would make Gwyn reconsider. Words stalled in Nesta's throat, but Cassian seemed to anticipate that. "All right. No more chitchat. Nes, show our new friend--Gwypn, is it? I'm Cassian. Nes, show her your feet." "Feet?" Gwyn's copper brows rose. Nesta rolled her eyes. "You'll see." Gwyn grasped the concept of grounding through her feet better than Nesta had, and certainly had no issues with dropping her weight into her right hip and other things Nesta had worked to correct for three weeks. Even with the robes, it was clear that Gwyn was built lithe and lean, accustomed to the casual grace of the Fae that Nesta was only learning. She'd expected to have to coax her friend, but once Gwyn overcame her initial trepidation, she was a willing participant, and a merry companion. The priestess laughed at her own mistakes, and did not bristle at corrections from Cassian. By the end of the lesson, though, Gwyn's robe was damp with sweat, tendrils of hair curling around her flushed face. Cassian ordered them to drink some water before their cooldown. As Gwyn poured herself a glass, she said, "At the temple in Sangravah, we had a set of ancient movements that we would go through every sunrise. Not for battle training, but for calming the mind. We did cooldowns after those, too, though we called them groundings. The movements took us out of our bodies, in a way. Let us commune with the Mother. The groundings settled us back into the present world." "Why did you sign up for this, then?" Nesta drank the glass Gwyn extended. "If you already have mind-calming exercises you're accustomed to?" "Because I don't ever want to feel powerless again," Gwyn said softly, and all those easy smiles and bright laughs were gone. Only stark, pained honesty shone in her remarkable eyes. Nesta swallowed, and though instinct told her to pull away, she said quietly, "Me too." The bell above the shop door jangled as Nesta entered, brushing off the snowflakes that had stuck to the shoulders of her cloak. Cassian had needed to go up to the Illyrian Mountains after their second lesson with Gwyn, and to her surprise, he had asked Nesta to join him. He'd already cleared it with Clotho that she'd be a few hours late for her work at the library. He hadn't explained why beyond a casual comment about getting her out of the House and into the fresh air. But she'd accepted, and hadn't told him why, either. Cassian hadn't even seemed curious when she requested he leave her at Windhaven so she could go shopping. Perhaps a spark had gleamed in his eye, as if he'd guessed, but he'd been distant, quiet. Given that Cassian was up here to meet with Eris, she didn't blame him. He'd left Nesta by the fountain in the center of the freezing village, making sure she knew that if she needed to warm up, Rhys's mother's house was unlocked. Velaris was still gripped in summer's hand, autumn just barely tugging it away, but Windhaven had already yielded completely to winter's embrace. Nesta wasted little time in entering the shop. "Nesta," Emerie said by way of greeting, peering over a young-looking male's broad shoulder and wings from where she stood helping him at the counter. "It's good to see you." Was that relief in her voice? Nesta made sure the door behind her was firmly latched before striding in, the snow on her boots leaving muddy tracks alongside those left by Emerie's customer. The male half-turned toward Nesta, revealing a blandly handsome face, dark hair tied back at the nape of his neck, and glassy brown eyes. The asshole was drunk. Asshole seemed to be the correct term, since Emerie's rigid posture revealed distaste and wariness. Nesta sauntered up to the counter, giving the male a once-over that she knew usually made people want to throttle her. From the way he stiffened, swaying slightly on his booted feet, she knew it'd worked. "Good morning," she said cheerfully to Emerie. Another thing males seemed to detest: being ignored by a female. "Wait your turn, witch," the male grumbled, turning back to the counter and Emerie. Emerie crossed her arms. "I think we're done here, Bellius." "We're done when I say we're done." The words were half-slurred. "I have an appointment," Nesta said, leveling a cool glance at him. She sniffed at the male. Her nose crinkled. "And you seem to need an appointment with a bath." He turned fully to her, muscled shoulders pushing back. Even with the glazed expression, ire boiled in his stare. "Do you know who I am?" "A drunk fool wasting my time," Nesta said. Two Siphons--a blue darker than Azriel's--sat atop the backs of his large hands. "Get out." Emerie stilled, as if bracing herself for the retaliation. But she said before the male could reply, "We'll discuss this later, Bellius." "My father sent me to convey a message." "Message received," Emerie said, chin lifting. "And my answer is the same: this store is mine. If he wants one so badly, he can open his own." "Hateful bitch," Bellius bit out, swaying back a step. Nesta laughed, cold and hollow. Fae and humans had more in common than she'd realized. How many times had she witnessed her father's debtors darkening their doorstep to shake him down for money he didn't have? And then there had been the time when they had gone beyond threats. When they'd left her father's leg shattered. Any sense of safety shattered with it. "Get out," Nesta said again, pointing to the door as Bellius bristled at her fading laughter. "Do yourself a favor and get out." Bellius rose to his full height, wings flaring. "Or what?" Nesta picked at her nails. "I don't think you want to find out the or what part." Bellius opened his mouth, but Emerie said, "Your father now has my answer, Bellius. I suggest you get some water from the fountain before you fly home." Bellius only spat onto the floorboards and stalked for the exit, throwing Nesta a hazy glare as he slammed the door behind himself. In silence, Nesta and Emerie watched him stagger into the snow-swept street and spread his wings. Nesta frowned as he shot into the sky. "Friend of yours?" Nesta asked, facing Emerie at the counter again. "My cousin." Emerie cringed. "His father is my uncle. On my father's side." She added before Nesta could ask, "Bellius is a young, arrogant idiot. He's due to participate in the Blood Rite this spring, and his arrogance has only grown these past months as he anticipates becoming a true warrior. He's skilled enough that he got placed on a scouting unit to the continent-- and just returned to celebrate his accomplishment, apparently." Emerie wiped at an invisible speck of dirt on the counter. "I didn't expect him to be drunk midday, though. That's a new low for him." Color stained her cheeks. "I'm sorry you had to witness it." Nesta shrugged. "Dealing with drunk fools is my specialty." Emerie kept fiddling with the imaginary spot on the counter. "Our fathers were two of a kind. They believed children should be harshly disciplined for any infraction. There was little room for mercy or understanding." Nesta pursed her lips. "I know the type." Her mother's mother had been the same way before she'd died of a deep-rooted cough that had turned into a deadly infection. Nesta had been seven when the stern-faced dame who had insisted on being called Grandmamma had beaten her palms raw with a ruler for missteps in her dancing lessons. Worthless, clumsy girl. You're a waste of my time. Maybe this will help you remember to pay attention to my orders. Nesta had only felt relief when the old beast had died. Elain, who'd been spared the cruelties of Grandmamma's tutelage, had wept and dutifully laid flowers at her grave--one soon joined by their mother's stone marker. Feyre had been too young to understand, but Nesta had never bothered to lay flowers for her grandmamma. Not when Nesta bore a scar near her left thumb from one of the woman's nastier punishments. Nesta had only left flowers for her mother, whose grave she had visited more often than she cared to admit. She hadn't once visited her father's grave outside Velaris. "Are you all right?" Nesta asked Emerie at last. "Will Bellius return?" "No," Emerie said, shaking her head. "I mean, I'm fine. But no--he's a member of the Ironcrest war-band. Their lands are a few hours' flight from here. He won't return anytime soon." She shrugged. "I get these little visits from my uncle's family every now and then. Nothing I can't handle. Though Bellius was a new one. I guess they think he's adult enough now to bully me." Nesta opened her mouth, but Emerie offered her another half smile and changed the subject. "You look well. Far healthier than when I saw you ... What was it now? Almost three weeks ago." She gave Nesta an assessing glance. "You never came back." "We moved our training to Velaris," Nesta explained. "I was about to write to you before Bellius interrupted me. I asked about making leathers with fleece inside." Emerie leaned her forearms on the immaculate counter. "It can be done, but it's not cheap." "Then it's beyond my means, but thank you for finding out anyway." "I could order it and let you pay it off as you're able." It was a generous offer. Far beyond the kindness anyone had ever shown Nesta in the human realm, when her father had been trying to sell his wood carvings for a few pitiful coppers. Only Feyre had kept them fed and clothed, earning scant amounts for the pelts and meat she hunted. She'd kept them alive. The last time she'd hunted for them, the food had run out the day before. If Feyre hadn't returned home with meat that night, they either would have had to starve to death or beg in the village. Nesta had told herself that day that Tomas would take her in, if necessary. Maybe even Elain, too. But his family had been hateful, with too many mouths to feed already. His father would have refused to feed her, without question. She'd been prepared to offer the only thing she had to barter to Tomas, if it would have kept Elain from starving. Would have sold her body on the street to anyone who'd pay her enough to feed her sister. Her body had meant nothing to her--nothing, she'd told herself as she'd felt her options closing in. Elain meant everything. But Feyre had come back with that food. And then vanished over the wall. Three days afterward, Nesta broke it off with Tomas. Enraged, he'd launched himself at her, pinning her against the enormous woodpile stacked along the barn wall. Spiteful whore, he'd growled. You think you're better than me? Acting like a queen when you haven't got shit. She'd never forget the sound of her dress tearing, the greed in his eyes as his hands pawed at her skirts, trying to raise them as he fumbled with the buckle on his belt. Only pure, undiluted terror and survival instinct had saved her. She'd let him get close, let him think her strength had failed, and then clamped her teeth down on his ear. And ripped. He'd screamed, but he'd loosened his grip on her--just enough that she'd broken free and scrambled through the snow, spitting his blood out of her mouth, and did not stop running until she'd reached the cottage. And then word had come of their father's ships: found, with all the wealth intact. Nesta knew it was a lie. The trunks of jewels and gold had not come from that doomed shipment, but from Tamlin, payment for the human woman he'd stolen away. To help the family he'd doomed to die without Feyre's hunting. Nesta shook off the memory. "It's all right. But thank you." Emerie rubbed her long, slender hands together. "It's freezing, and I'm about to take my lunch break. Would you like to join me?" Beyond Cassian, no one had invited her to dine in a long time. She'd given them no reason to. But there it was: an honest, simple offer. From someone who had no idea how terrible she was. Having lunch with Emerie was an indulgence; it was only a matter of time until the female learned more about Nesta. Until she heard every horrible thing, and then the invitations would stop. Had she been any better than Bellius, drunk and simmering with hatred for months? If Emerie knew, she'd kick her out of this shop, too. But for now, neither rumor nor truth had reached Emerie. "I would like that," Nesta said, and meant it. e: The back room of Emerie's shop was as immaculate as the front, though crates of extra stock were stacked against one wall. Two windows looked out onto a snow-covered garden, and beyond that, the nearest mountain peak squatted, blocking the gray sky with its rocky bulk. A small kitchen lay to the right, little more than a hearth and a counter and a small worktable. A few wooden chairs sat around it, and Nesta realized the table was also the dining area. A place setting had been laid there for one person. "Just you?" Nesta asked as Emerie went to the wood counter and gathered a platter of roast beef and a dish of roasted carrots. She set them on the table before Nesta and grabbed a loaf of bread, along with a bowl of butter. "Just me." Emerie opened a cabinet to retrieve a second place setting. "No mate or husband to bother me." She spoke a bit tensely, like there was more to it than that, but Nesta said, "Me neither." Emerie threw her a wry look. "What about that handsome General Cassian?" Nesta blocked out the memory of his head between her thighs, his tongue at her entrance, sliding into her. "Not a chance," Nesta said, but Emerie's eyes glimmered with knowing. "Well, it's nice to meet another female who's not obsessed with marriage and baby-making," Emerie said, sitting at the table and gesturing for Nesta to do the same. She'd put some roast beef, carrots, and bread onto Nesta's plate, and slid the bowl of butter to her. "It's cold, but it's meant to be eaten that way. I usually stop for lunch only long enough to feed myself." Nesta dug in and grunted. "It's delicious." She took another bite. "Did you make this?" "Who else would? We don't have any sort of food shops here except the butcher." Emerie pointed with her fork to the garden beyond the building. "I grow my own vegetables. These carrots came from that garden." Nesta took a bite. "They have a lovely flavor." Butter and thyme and something bright ... "Its all in the spices. Which are in short supply around here, unfortunately. Illyrians don't particularly know or care about them." "My father used to be a merchant," Nesta said, a chasm yawning open in her at the words. She cleared her throat. "He traded spices from all over the world. I can still remember the smell in his offices--it was like a thousand different personalities all crammed into one space." Feyre had loved to hang about their father's office, more fascinated in the trade than what Nesta had been taught was acceptable for a wealthy girl. Feyre had always been that way: completely uninterested in the rules that governed their lives, uninterested in becoming a true lady who would help advance their family's fortunes through an advantageous marriage. They had rarely agreed on anything. And those visits to their father's offices had resulted in a simmering resentment between them. Feyre had tried to get her interested, had shown her so many rarities to tempt her. But Nesta had barely listened to her sister's explanations, mostly eyeing up their father's business partners for whether their sons might be a good match. Feyre had been disgusted. It had made Nesta even more determined. "Did you travel with him?" "No, my two sisters and I remained home. It wasn't appropriate for us to travel the world." "I always forget how similar human ideas of propriety are to the Illyrians'." Emerie took another bite. "Would you have wanted to see the world, if you could?" "It was half a world, wasn't it? With the wall in place." "Still better than nothing." Nesta chuckled. "You're right." She considered Emerie's question. If her father had offered to bring them on one of his ships, to let them see strange and distant shores, would they have gone? Elain had always wanted to visit the continent to study the tulips and other famed flowers, but her imagination had stretched no further. Feyre had talked once about the glorious art in the continent's museums and private estates. But that was all the western edge of it. Beyond that, the continent was vast. And to the south, another continent sprawled. Would she have gone? "I would have put up a fight," Nesta said at last, "but in the end, I'd have yielded to curiosity." "Do you still have any family in the human lands?" "My mother died when I was twelve, and my father ... He did not survive the most recent war. Their parents died during my childhood. I have no kin on my father's side, and my mother had one cousin, who lives on the continent and conveniently forgot about us when we fell on hard times." Nesta had written letter after letter when they'd fallen into poverty, begging her cousin Urstin to take them in. They'd gone unanswered, and then the money for postage had run out. Nesta still wondered if their cousin had ever learned what had become of the relatives she'd ignored and left to die. Nesta asked carefully, "What about your family?" She'd seen and heard enough from Bellius to have a general idea, but she couldn't help asking. "Mother died giving birth to me, and my elder brother died in a skirmish between war-bands ten years before I was born. My father died during the war with Hybern." The words were stiff, cold. "I do not bother with the rest of my kin, though my father's family makes it a point to try to claim this store and his wealth as their own." "They're not entitled to it, are they?" "No. Rhysand changed the inheritance laws centuries ago to include females, but my uncles don't seem to care. They still show up every now and then to bother me like Bellius did. They believe a woman should not run her own business, that I should wed a male in this village and leave the store to them." She grimaced. "They're vultures." Emerie had finished her lunch and poured some tea for each of them. "Its a shame that you won't be coming up here very often. I could use another sensible person to talk to." Nesta blinked at the compliment, the bit of truth it revealed about Emerie: she was unhappy in this place. All those questions about traveling ... "Would you ever move away?" Emerie choked on a laugh. "And go where? At least here I know people. I've never left this village. Never even been up to that mountaintop over there." She gestured to the window, and Nesta made it a point not to look at her wings. Nesta sipped from her tea. It was a strong brew, with a bit of a bite. She must have made a face because Emerie explained quietly, "Tea is in short supply here--a luxury that I indulge. But to spread it out, I add a little willow bark to it. It also helps with some of my ... pains." "What pains?" "My wings sometimes hurt. The scars, I mean. Like an old wound." Nesta kept her pity tamped down. She finished her tea right as Emerie did, and said, "Thank you for the food." Rising, she picked up her plate. "I'll get it." Emerie hustled around the table. "Don't trouble yourself." She moved with an easy grace, like someone confident in her body. Nesta drifted to the front of the shop, but then said, at last voicing her reason for visiting, "The training I'm doing with Cassian in the House of Wind is open to anyone--any female, I mean. Females who have experienced ... hardship." Emerie's wings, her horrible family, were not the same as what Gwyn had endured, but everyone's traumas wore different masks. "We train each morning, from nine to eleven, though we sometimes run until noon. You're welcome to come." Emerie stiffened. "I have no way of getting there, but I appreciate the offer." "Someone could come retrieve you, and bring you back." Nesta didn't know who, but if she had to ask Rhys himself, she would. "It's a generous offer, but I have my shop to run." Emerie's face yielded nothing, as battle-hardened as Azriel's. "I'm not interested in a warrior's training. I doubt it would win me patrons in this town to have them know I'm doing such a thing." "You don't seem like a coward." The words rang between them. Emerie bit her lip. But Nesta shrugged. "Send word if you wish to join us. The offer stands." Cassian hated to admit it, but for a spoiled, soulless asshole, Eris had his uses. Mostly one: the bubble of heat that warmed them against the chill winds wending through the pines of the Illyrian Steppes. Some fire magic to warm their bones. "The Dread Trove," Eris mused, surveying the heavy gray sky that threatened snow. "I've never heard of such items. Though it does not Surprise me." "Does your father know of them?" The Steppes weren't neutral ground, but they were empty enough that Eris had finally deigned to accept Cassian's request to meet here. After taking days to reply to his message. "No, thank the Mother," Eris said, crossing his arms. "He would have told me if he did. But if the Trove has a sentience like you suggested, if it wants to be found ... I fear that it might also be reaching out to others as well. Not just Briallyn and Koschei." Beron in possession of the Trove would be a disaster. He'd join the ranks of the King of Hybern. Could become something terrible and deathless like Lanthys. "So Briallyn failed to inform Beron about her quest for the Trove when he visited her?" "Apparently, she doesn't trust him, either," Eris said, face full of contemplation. "I'll need to think on that." "Don't tell him about it," Cassian warned. Eris shook his head. "You misunderstand me. I'm not going to tell him a damned thing. But the fact that Briallyn is actively hiding her larger plans from him ..." He nodded, more to himself. "Is this why Morrigan is back in Vallahan? To learn if they know about the Trove?" "Maybe," Cassian lied. She was still trying to convince them to sign the new treaty. But Eris didn't need to know that. "Here I was," Eris said, "thinking Morrigan was going there so often to hide from me." "Don't flatter yourself. It's only coincidence." He wasn't sure if the lie held. "Why shouldn't I flatter myself with such thoughts? You flatter yourself, thinking you're more than a mongrel bastard." Cassian's Siphons glinted atop his hands, and Eris smirked at the evidence that he'd landed the blow. But Cassian forced himself to say calmly, "That's all the information I have." "You've given me a great deal to consider." "Make sure you keep it quiet," Cassian warned again. Eris winked before winnowing away. Alone in the howling wild, Cassian blew out a breath. Embraced the chill winds, the pine-fresh scent, and willed it to wash away his irritation and discomfort. But it lingered. For some reason, it lingered. <|title|>Chapter 26 <|startofchapter|>Without doing extra training between the stacks, Nesta found herself less exhausted when she left the library. Cassian had retrieved her from Windhaven after two and a half hours, and she'd already been so bored sitting in Rhys's mother's house that she'd nearly smiled to see him. But Cassian's face had been tight, his eyes cold and distant, and he'd barely spoken to her when Rhys had appeared. Rhys had barely spoken to her, either, but that was to be expected. It was better if they didn't speak at all. Yet Cassian hadn't said more than "I'll see you later" before leaving again with Rhys after the High Lord had brought them back to the House of Wind, his face still tight and angry. With the extra energy buzzing through her that night, wondering incessantly why Cassian had been so upset, Nesta didn't feel like eating in her room and falling asleep. So she found herself in the doorway of the dining room. Cassian was lounging in his chair, a glass of wine in his hand, staring at nothing. A brooding warrior-prince, contemplating the death of his enemies. She took a step into the room, and the wineglass vanished. She snorted. "I'm not so wine-addled that I'd steal it from your hand." "The House is under specific orders--no wine when you're in the room." He flexed his fingers as he sat up. "It took it from me." "Ah." She claimed the seat across from him as a place setting and a plate of food appeared, along with water for both of them. Cassian returned to staring at his half-eaten food. She hadn't seen his face this grave since the war. "Did something happen with the queens or the Trove?" He blinked. "What?" Then gave a one-shouldered shrug. "No, just ... Eris was his usual charming self today." He pushed around the roast chicken with his fork. Nesta picked up her own fork, hungry enough that she let the subject drop as she devoured her food. When she'd taken the edge off her hunger, she said, "I asked Emerie to join training." "I'm assuming she said no." His words were flat, his face distant. "Indeed. But if she changes her mind, I thought maybe someone could winnow her here." "Sure." She could tell he wasn't just being short with her--he was so preoccupied with whatever was eating at him that he could barely talk. It bothered her more than it should have. Bothered her enough that she asked, "What happened?" She made herself eat more, acting as casual as possible, trying to coax him into opening up. To talk about what had brought that bruised look to his eyes. His gaze lowering to his plate, Cassian told her about the meeting with Eris. "So Eris is set on helping us find the Trove--and making sure his father doesn't get his hands on it, or hear about it," Nesta said when he'd finished. "Isn't that a good thing? Why are you riled?" Why do you look so battered? "It's the ugliness of his fucking soul that riles me. I don't care if he calls me a mongrel bastard." Eris had called him such things today, she realized. Rage rippled through her. "It's just that, ally or not, I hate him. He's so slick and unruffled and ... I can't stand him." He set down his fork and stared toward the window behind her. "Eris and his twisted word games and politics are an enemy I don't know how to handle. Every time I meet with him, I feel like he's got the upper hand. Like I can only catch up to him, and he sees through my every fumbling attempt at being clever. Maybe that makes me a stupid brute after all." True sorrow filled his face--and enough self-loathing that Nesta rose from her seat. He went still as she rounded the table, only lifting his head when she leaned against the edge of the table beside his plate. "Rhys should kill him and be done with it." "If anyone is going to kill Eris, it will be Mor or me." His hazel eyes were nearly pleading. Not with her, she knew, but with fate. "But killing him would prove him and his ilk right about me. And regardless of how I feel about Eris, he would be a better High Lord than Beron. No matter what I want, there's still the well-being of the Autumn Court to consider." Cassian was good. In his soul, in his warrior's heart, Cassian was good in a way Nesta knew most people were not. In a way she knew she was not and would never be. He was not a warrior who killed on a whim, but a male who carefully considered every life he had to take. Who'd defend what he loved until death. And Eris ... He'd hurt Cassian. With what he'd done to Morrigan, yes, but also with the words so similar to ones that Nesta herself had wielded. The wound lay in Cassian's eyes, as raw as any injury. Shame rushed through her. Shame, and anger, and a wild sort of desperation. She couldn't abide the pain in his eyes, teetering on the brink of despair. Couldn't stand the absence of the grinning and winking and swaggering she knew so well. She'd do anything to get rid of that look in his eyes. Even for a few moments. So Nesta braced her hands on the arms of his chair as she brushed a kiss to his neck. Cassian's breath caught. But she pressed another kiss to the soft, warm skin of his neck, just beneath his ear. Another, lower now, closer to the collar of his dark shirt. He trembled, and she kissed the hard knot in the center of his throat. Licked it. Cassian shifted in his chair, groaning softly. His hand rose to clasp her hip, as if he'd push her away, but she removed him. "Let me," she said against his neck. "Please." He swallowed, and that hard knot moved against her mouth. But he didn't stop her, and so Nesta kissed him again, moving to the other side of his neck. Reaching that spot just beneath his ear as she laid a hand on his chest and felt his heartbeat hammering into her palm. She didn't kiss his mouth. She didn't want that distraction. Not as she slid between him and the table and dropped to her knees. His eyes went wide. "Nesta." She reached for the top of his pants, the bulge already pressing through. "Please," she said again, and met his stare. From where she knelt between Cassian's legs, he towered over her, but the edge in his eyes softened almost imperceptibly before he nodded. He reached to help her with the buttons and stays, but she lightly laid a hand atop his. Her fingers were steady, sure, as she unfastened his pants. Her head wholly clear. The muscles in his thighs shifted against her as she pulled him free and nearly gasped. His cock was enormous. Beautiful, and hard, and absolutely enormous. Her mouth dried out, every plan she'd had requiring sudden reassessment. There was no way he'd fit entirely in her mouth. Perhaps no way he'd even fit in her body. But she sure as hell wanted to try. Her fingers shook a little as she stroked them down the thick, long shaft. The skin was so soft--softer than silk or velvet. And he was hard as steel beneath. He shuddered, and she lifted her eyes to find his gaze fixed on her hand. "How do you like it?" she asked, her voice breathy as hot need washed through her. She wrapped her hand around his cock--her fingers barely able to reach around him completely. "Gentle?" She made a feather-soft pass over him, squeezing lightly. Cassian shook his head, as if beyond words. She stroked him again, slightly harder. "Like this?" His chest heaved, his teeth shining as he gritted them. But he shook his head. Nesta smiled, and when she pumped him a third time, she squeezed hard, letting her nails graze the sensitive underside of his shaft. His hips arced off the chair, and she pinned a hand to them. "I see," she murmured, and did it again. Harder still, twisting her fist as she reached the round head. He tried to arch into her hand, but she pinned him again with that other hand. "And this?" she purred, head lowering. "Do you like this?" Nesta licked across his broad head, tongue sliding into the small slit across its tip. She licked up the small bead of moisture already gathered there. Everything in her body turned molten; a surge of wetness slicked between her thighs as the taste of him filled her mouth, salt and something more, something vital. "Oh, gods," Cassian panted. And the words, the groan they were borne on, were so delicious that Nesta sucked his tip into her mouth and grazed her tongue along its underside. He leaned his head back against the chair, hissing. She licked up his shaft in one long motion. Rubbed her thighs together as she tasted him, felt all that hot, proud steel against her mouth. She licked down the other side, coating him, making it easier for herself as she put her mouth around him again and slid him between her lips. He filled her almost immediately, and she glanced down to discover there was enough of him still exposed that she needed to add her hand. "Nesta," he pleaded, and she made another pass at him, pulling him out nearly all the way before swallowing him again, letting her throat relax, desperate for as much of him in her mouth as could fit. Cassian's hand speared into her hair, gripping, and she realized he was holding himself back. Didn't want to ram himself into her, hurt her, displease her. And that wouldn't do. Not at all. She wanted him undone, wanted him grabbing her head and fucking her mouth as hard as he wished. So when Nesta took him into her mouth again, hand working in unison, she dragged her teeth. Lightly enough to hurt--just a bit. Cassian bucked, and she let him, swallowing him down greedily, squeezing him with her hand enough to tell him she wanted this, wanted him to let himself go. She withdrew her lips to the tip of him, rolling her tongue around him, and gazed at him from under her lashes. His eyes were on her, wide and glazed with lust. And when Cassian met her stare, beheld her looking up at him-- He unleashed himself. He couldn't take it. It was torture, a special kind of torture, to have Nesta kneeling before him with his cock in her mouth and hand and not be able to roar with pleasure. But then she stared at him through her lashes, and the sight of her with his cock between her lips snapped something. He didn't care that they were in the dining room, that a wall of windows and doors lined half the space and anyone flying by might see. Cassian slid his other hand into her hair, fingers twining into her braided coronet, and he thrust up into her mouth. She took him deep, and moaned so loudly it reverberated along his cock and straight into his balls. They tightened further, and release gathered in his spine, a scorching knot that had him arcing into her mouth again. He was utterly at her mercy. Nesta moaned once more, a soft encouragement, and Cassian needed nothing else. Gripping her hair, her scalp, holding her in place, he thrust his hips. She met him with each stroke, mouth and hand working in unison, until the slick heat of her, the teeth that sometimes grazed him, teased him, the tightness of her fist--they were unbearable, were all he cared about. Cassian fucked her mouth, and her moaning had him deciding he'd fuck the rest of her, too. Strip those pants off her and drive into her so hard she'd be screaming his name to the ceiling. He made to pull out, but Nesta refused to move. He growled, his fingers clamping on her head to still her. "I want to be inside you," he managed to say, his voice like gravel. But Nesta looked up at him again from under her lashes, and he watched his length disappear into her mouth. His tip bumped against the back of her throat. Oh, gods. He clenched his teeth. "I want to finish inside you." Nesta only huffed a laugh, and sucked him down so deep that he couldn't stop it. Couldn't stop the release as she slid her other hand into his pants and cupped his balls, squeezing softly. Cassian came with a roar that shook the glasses on the table, arcing up into her as he spilled himself down her throat. She weathered it, weathered him, and when he'd stopped shuddering, she smoothly, gracefully, slid her mouth off him. Nesta held his stare while she swallowed. Swallowed down every ounce of what he'd spilled into her mouth. And then her lips curved upward, a queen triumphant. Cassian panted, not caring that his cock was still out, slick and leaking, only that she was mere inches away and he was going to return this particular favor she'd given him. Nesta rose to her feet, eyes flicking to his cock. The heat in her gaze threatened to burn him, and the scent of her arousal wrapped itself around him and dug its claws in deep. "Take off your pants," he growled. Nesta's smile only grew, pure feline amusement. He'd fuck her on this table. Right now. He didn't care about anything else, about the common space they were in or Eris or Briallyn or Koschei or the Dread Trove. He needed to be inside her, to feel that hot tightness around him and claim her as she had claimed him. Nesta's fingers slid to the buttons and laces of her pants, and he shook as he watched them free the top button-- Steps scuffed down the hall. A warning. From someone who knew how to remain silent. Cassian stiffened, then shoved his aching cock into his pants. Nesta heard the sound and moved a few feet away, refastening that top button. Cassian had just finished setting himself to rights when Azriel strode in. "Good evening," his brother said with a grating level of calm, striding toward the table. "Az." Cassian wasn't able to keep the bite out of his tone. He met his brother's too-aware stare and silently conveyed every bit of annoyance he felt at his timing. Azriel only shrugged, surveying the food the House had brought him. As if he knew exactly what he'd interrupted and took his chaperone duties very seriously. Nesta was watching them, but as soon as Cassian turned to her, she launched into movement, pushing off the table and aiming for the door. "Good night." She didn't wait for him to respond before she was gone. Cassian leveled a glare at Az. "Thanks for that." "I don't know what you're talking about," Az said, even as he smiled down at his food. "Asshole." Az chuckled. "Don't show your hand all at once, Cass." "What's that supposed to mean?" Az nodded toward the doorway. "Save something for later." "Busybody." Az took a bite. "You let her suck your cock in the middle of the dining room. At a table I'm currently using to eat my dinner. I'd say that entitles me to an opinion." Cassian laughed, his earlier gloom chased away. By her. All by her. "Fair enough." <|title|>Chapter 27 <|startofchapter|>Nesta hadn't the faintest idea how she'd look Cassian in the face the next morning, but Gwyn provided a buffer she was all too eager to use. She met the priestess on the steps up to the training pit, and Gwyn offered her a bright smile. "Morning." "Morning," Nesta said, falling into step with her. "Anything on the Trove?" Gwyn shook her head. She still wore her robes, though she'd taken to tying back her hair in a tight braid. "I even asked Merrill last night. She broke through that glamour, but beyond a few mentions in old texts, she couldn't find anything more than what you already know. Not a hint about when or where they were lost, or who lost them. We can't even uncover who last possessed them, since it's information that goes back at least ten thousand years." It was always a shock to remember just how old the Fae were. How old Amren must be, to have remembered the Dread Trove objects when they were still free in the world. But apparently even Amren had no memory of who'd last used them. Nesta shoved away the thought of the female, and the accompanying cold slice of pain. "It might prove an impossible task," Gwyn said, mouth twisting to one side. "Is there no other way of finding it?" There was. It involved bones and stones. Nesta's body locked up. "No," she lied. "There's no other way." "You're going up to Windhaven?" Nesta found herself asking Cassian as Gwyn bade them farewell at the end of their lesson. Gwyn had started on fighting stances that morning, and it had taken enough focus from all of them that Nesta hadn't had a moment to really speak to him alone. There had been one slightly overlong glance when she'd appeared, and that had been it. She had no regrets about what she'd done in the dining room. Even if it had been glaringly obvious that Azriel had known what he was interrupting. But standing here alone with Cassian ... The taste of him lingered in her mouth, as if he'd branded himself onto her tongue. She'd lain awake in bed last night thinking of every stroke, every sound he'd made, still feeling the press of his fingers into her head as he'd thrust into her mouth. The memory alone had made her slide a hand between her legs, and she'd needed to find release twice before her body calmed enough to sleep. Cassian plucked his jacket from where he'd left it, shrugging into the black leather and scales. "I need to inspect the legions again. Make sure they're preparing for possible conflict and that the recruits are in good shape." "Ah." Their eyes met, and she could have sworn his darkened, as if remembering every delicious moment from the night before. But she shook her head, clearing away the cobwebs. "Gwyn's doing well," Cassian said, nodding to the archway where the priestess had disappeared. "She's a nice girl." Nesta had learned that Gwyn was twenty-eight--indeed, just a girl to him. "I like her," Nesta admitted. Cassian blinked. "I don't think I've ever heard you say that about anyone." She rolled her eyes, but he added, "It's too bad the other priestesses won't come." Nesta checked the sign-up sheet every day, but no one else had added their name. Gwyn told Nesta that she'd personally invited a few of the priestesses, but they were too scared, too unsure. "I don't know what I can do to encourage them," Nesta said. "Keep doing what you're doing." He finished fastening his jacket. A brisk autumn breeze flowed past, bringing with it scents from the city below: bread and cinnamon and oranges; roast meats and salt. Nesta inhaled, identifying each one, wondering how they could all somehow combine to create a singular sense of autumn. Nesta angled her head as an idea struck her. "If you're stopping by Windhaven, can you do me a favor?" Cassian stood in Emerie's shop and made his best attempt at a nonthreatening smile as he laid out the contents of the sack he'd carried. Emerie peered at what he placed onto her pristine counter. "Nesta gave you this?" Technically, Nesta had informed him, the House had given it to her. But she'd asked the House for these items, intending them to be brought here. "She said it's a gift." Emerie picked up a brass tin, pried open the top, and inhaled. The smoky, velvety scent of tea leaves floated out. "Oh, this is good stuff." She lifted a glass vial of finely ground powder. When she twisted the lid off, a nutty, spicy scent filled the shop. "Cumin." Her sigh was like a lover's. She moved to another and another, six glass containers in total. "Turmeric, cinnamon, allspice, cloves, and ..." She peered at the label. "Black pepper." Cassian laid the last container on the table, a large marble box that weighed at least two pounds. Emerie yanked off the lid and let out a laugh. "Salt." She pinched the flaky crystals between her fingers. "A lot of salt." Her eyes shone as a rare smile flitted across her face. It made her look younger, wiped away the weight and scars of all those years with her father. "Please tell her I say thank you." He cleared his throat, remembering the speech Nesta had drilled into him. "Nesta says you can thank her by showing up to training tomorrow morning." Emerie's smile wavered. "I told her the other day: I have no means to attend." "She thought you'd say that. If you want to come, send word, and one of us will bring you." It'd have to be Rhys, but he doubted his brother would object. "If you can't stay the full time, that's fine. Come for an hour, before your shop opens." Emerie's fingers fell away from the spices and tea. "It's not the right time." Cassian knew better than to push. "If you ever change your mind, let us know." He turned from the counter, aiming for the door. He knew Nesta had given the gift in part to tempt Emerie to join, but also from the kindness of her heart. He'd asked why she was sending these items, and she'd said, "Emerie needs spices and good tea." It had stunned him, just as it had stunned him earlier to hear her admit that she liked Gwyn. Nesta around Gwyn was a wholly different creature than who she was with the court. They didn't tease or laugh with each other, but an easiness lay between them that he'd never witnessed, even when Nesta was with Elain. She'd always been Elain's guardian, or Feyre's sister, or Cauldron-Made. With Gwyn ... he wondered whether Nesta liked the girl because with her, she was simply Nesta. Perhaps she felt that way around Emerie, too. Had she gone into Velaris, night after night, not only to distract and numb herself, but to be around people who didn't know the weight of all she carried? Cassian reached the door, blowing out a soft breath. He'd refused to think of what she'd done to him in the dining room while they'd been training, especially with Gwyn there, but seeing Nesta's tentative smile as she'd shoved the tea and spices into a bag had him suppressing the urge to push her against the wall and kiss her. He had no idea where things stood with them. If they were back to a favor for a favor. She'd given him no inkling about whether she'd let him into her bed, or if she'd gotten on her knees to knock him out of the brooding he'd fallen into. If she had, it implied some level of caring about his well-being, didn't it? And pity. Fuck, if she'd sucked him because she pitied him-- No. It hadn't been that. He'd seen the desire in her eyes, felt the softness of her mouth on his neck in those initial touches. It had been comfort, given in the only way she knew how. Cassian opened the door and looked back, finding Emerie still at the counter, her hand resting on the array of spices and tea. Her eyes were solemn, her lips a tight line. She didn't seem aware of his presence, so he took that as his cue to leave and leaped into the skies. Nesta climbed the steps to the training ring, pondering the Dread Trove. She assumed the others had met with no better luck than she had, and if things were indeed as urgent as Azriel had claimed, then perhaps library research wasn't the best route. But her stomach clenched to weigh the other option, to recall what had occurred the first and only time she'd scried. Her hands shook as she climbed the last of the steps. She squeezed her fingers into fists, blowing out a steady breath through her nose. Cassian already stood in the center of the ring. He grinned as she emerged. It was a wider grin than his usual ones, excited and--pleased. Nesta's eyes narrowed as she stepped into the brightness of the ring. Gwyn was already waiting a few feet from Cassian, a smile lighting her own face. And before them, drinking a glass at the water station, stood Emerie. <|title|>Chapter 28 <|startofchapter|>As graceful as Gwyn had been, Emerie proved to be equally awkward and unbalanced. "It has to do with your wings," Cassian said with such gentleness that Nesta, balancing on one leg and sweeping the other up behind her, nearly fell into the dirt next to Emerie. "Without full use of your wings, your body compensates for its off-kilter balance in ways like that." He nodded toward the ground-eating spill she'd taken. Gwyn halted her own balancing. "Why?" "The wings usually act as a counterweight." He offered a hand to help Emerie rise. "They're full of delicate muscles that constantly adjust and steady without us so much as thinking about it." Emerie ignored his hand and stood herself. Cassian explained carefully, "Many of the key muscles can be impacted when someone's wings are clipped." Gwyn glanced to Nesta, who tensed, frowning. Gwyn and Emerie had fallen into an easy camaraderie within minutes. That could have been due to Gwyn peppering Emerie with questions about her shop as they'd gone through the opening exercises. Emerie dusted the dirt off the legs of her leathers, looser than the ones Nesta wore, as if she were uncomfortable with the skintight norm. Cassian's eyes softened. "Which of the healers clipped you?" Emerie's chin lifted, color stealing across her face. She met his eyes, though--with a level of directness that Nesta could only admire. "My father did it himself." Cassian swore, low and nasty. Emerie said, voice cold, "I fought him, so his work became even sloppier." Gwyn and Nesta kept quiet as Emerie stretched out her right wing nearly all the way before it bunched and shuddered. So did Emerie's face. "I can't extend this one past here." She stretched out the left wing--to barely half its length. "This is all I can get on this side." Cassian looked like he'd be sick. "He deserved to die in that battle. Deserved to die a long time before that, Emerie." His Siphons glared in answer, and something wild and wicked heated in Nesta's blood at the pure rage in his face, his growling words. Emerie folded back her wings. "He deserved to die for far more than what he did to my wings." "If you're going to come to Velaris every day, I can get Madja up here. She's the court's private healer." Rhys had brought Emerie, Nesta had learned. And would return her in an hour. Emerie only went stiffer. "I appreciate the offer, but it's unnecessary." Cassian opened his mouth, but Nesta interrupted, "Enough chitchat. If we only get Emerie for an hour today, then walk us through the punching, Cassian. Let her see what she'll need to catch up to." Emerie threw her a grateful look, and Nesta offered her a slight smile in return. Cassian nodded, and from the gleam in his eye, she knew he was well aware of why she'd interrupted. Gwyn asked Emerie, "Do you have libraries in Illyria?" Another lifeline thrown. "No. I've never been in one." The stiffness faded from Emerie's posture, word by word. Gwyn retied her shining hair at the nape of her neck. "Do you like to read?" Emerie's mouth curled upward. "I live alone, up in the mountains. I have nothing to do with my spare time except work in my garden and read whatever books I order through the mail service. And in the winter, I don't even have the distraction of my gardening. So, yes. I like to read. I cannot survive without reading." Nesta grunted her agreement. "What manner of books?" Gwyn asked. "Romances," Emerie said, adjusting her own hair, the thick black braid full of reds and browns in the sunlight. Nesta started. Emerie's eyes lit. "You too? Which ones?" Nesta rattled off her top five, and Emerie grinned, so broadly it was like seeing another person. "Have you read Sellyn Drake's novels?" Nesta shook her head. Emerie gasped, so dramatically that Cassian muttered something about sparing him from smut-obsessed females before heading farther into the ring. "You must read her books. You must. I'll bring the first one tomorrow. You'll stay up all night reading it, I swear." "Smut?" Gwyn asked, catching Cassian's muttered words. There was enough hesitation in her voice to make Nesta draw up straight. Nesta glanced at Emerie, realizing the female didn't know about Gwyn --her history, or why the priestesses lived in the library. But Emerie asked, "What do you read?" "Adventure, sometimes mysteries. But mostly I have to read whatever Merrill, the priestess I work with, has written that day. Not as exciting as romance, not by a long shot." Emerie said casually, "I can bring one of Drake's books for you, too-- one of her milder ones. An introduction to the wonders of romance." Emerie winked at Nesta. Nesta waited for Gwyn to refuse, but the priestess smiled. "I'd like that." Rhys appeared in the ring precisely when he said he would. One hour--no more, no less. Red dirt and sweat covered Emerie, but her gaze shone bright as she bowed to the High Lord. Gwyn, however, stilled, those large teal eyes looking even more unearthly as they widened. No fear tinged her scent, but rather something like surprise--awe. Rhys threw her an easy smile, one Nesta would have bet was crafted to put people at ease in his oh-so-magnificent presence. The casual smile of a male used to people either fleeing in terror or falling to their knees in worship. "Hello, Gwyn," he said warmly. "Good to see you again." Gwyn blushed, shaking herself out of her stupor, and bowed low. "My lord." Nesta rolled her eyes, and found Rhys watching her. That casual smile sharpened as he met her stare. "Nesta." "Rhysand." The other two women were glancing between them, the bouncing of their stares almost comical. Cassian just strode to Nesta's side and slung an arm around her shoulders before drawling to Rhys, "These ladies are going to hand your ass to you in combat soon enough." Nesta made to step out from under the heavy, sweaty weight of his arm, but Cassian clamped a too-friendly hand on her shoulder, his grin unfaltering. Rhys's gaze slid between them, little warmth to be found in his eyes. But plenty of wariness. Little princeling didn't like her with his friend. Nesta leaned into Cassian. Not much, but enough for a trained warrior like Rhysand to note. A dark, silken hand brushed inside her mind. A request. She debated ignoring it, but found herself opening a small door through the steel, spiked barrier she kept around herself day and night. The door was essentially a peephole, and she allowed what she supposed was the equivalent of her mental face to peer through it to the dark, sparkling plane beyond. What? You are to treat Gwyn with kindness and respect. The thing that stood beyond the fortress of her mind was a creature of claws, scales, and teeth. It was veiled from sight beneath writhing shadows and the occasional passing star glinting in the darkness, but every now and then, a glimpse of a wing or a talon shone. Mind your own business. Nesta slammed that small viewing hole shut. She blinked, slowly registering Emerie asking Cassian about tomorrow morning's lesson, and what she'd miss today by leaving an hour early. Rhysand's eyes glittered. Cassian's arm remained around Nesta, and his thumb moved over her shoulder in an idle, reassuring caress. Whether he knew of or sensed her silent conversation with his High Lord, he didn't let on. "Ready?" Rhys asked Emerie, that kind, lovely smile appearing again. Emerie might have blushed. Rhysand had that effect on people. Nesta often wondered how Feyre could stand it--all the people lusting after her mate. Nesta pushed out of Cassian's arm again, and this time he let her. She followed Emerie to where she was gathering her heavy cloak. "So you'll come back tomorrow?" Nesta asked. A glance over her shoulder revealed Gwyn walking to the water station, either to give the two males privacy or from discomfort at being left with them. Guilt pricked at Nesta for that abandonment, and she made a mental note not to allow it to happen again. Gwyn had been fine with Cassian these past days: she did not touch him, and he did not touch her, but she hadn't shied from him as she did now. Nesta didn't want to think about why that was, what scars had been etched so deeply in Gwyn that two of the most trustworthy males in this entire land couldn't put her at ease. Rhysand might be an arrogant, vain bastard, but he was honorable. He fought like hell to protect innocents. Her dislike of him had nothing to do with what he'd proved so many times: he was a fair, just ruler, who put his people before himself. No, she just found his personality--that slick smugness--grating. Emerie answered, "I'll come back tomorrow." Nesta angled her head. "I had no idea tea and spices were that convincing." Emerie smiled slightly. "It wasn't only the gift, but the reminder of what they mean." "What's that?" Emerie gazed skyward, closing her eyes as an autumn breeze rippled past. "That there is a world beyond Windhaven. That I am too much of a coward to see it." "You're not a coward." "You said I was the other day." Nesta winced. "I spoke in anger." "You spoke truth. I stayed awake that night thinking of it. And then you had Cassian deliver the spices and tea and I realized that there is a world out there. A vast, vibrant world. Maybe these lessons will make me a little less scared of it." Nesta offered a tentative smile. "Sounds like a good enough reason to Cassian watched Rhys's face carefully as Nesta and Emerie spoke, and Gwyn drifted over to join them. Promises of books to be swapped filled the air. Rhys said to him, This is an interesting development. Cassian didn't bother to make his face look pleasant. I could have done without you giving Nesta a mental warning. Rhys's brows narrowed. How did you know I did that? The bastard didn't even try to deny it. I noticed the way she tensed. And I know you well, brother. You saw Gwyn and thought the worst of Nesta. She's treated her--and Emerie--with me. kindness. That's what pissed you off? I'm pissed off that you can't seem to believe even one good thing about her. That you refuse to fucking believe one good thing about her. Was it necessary to bait her like that? Regret glimmered in Rhys's eyes. Cassian went on, You're not making it easier. Let her build these bonds, and stay the hell out of it. Rhys blinked. I'm sorry. I will. Cassian blew out a breath. Rhys added, Did you really feel you had to put your arm around her shoulders to restrain her? I don't want the two of you within three feet of each other. You have a pregnant mate, Rhys. You'll kill anyone that presents a threat to Feyre. You're a danger to all of us right now. I'd never harm someone Feyre loves. You know that. There was enough tension in the words that Cassian clapped his brother on the shoulder, squeezing the hard muscle beneath. Maybe drop Emerie off on the other side of the House tomorrow. Give Nesta some time to sort her shit out. All right. The three females approached them. Rhys opened his wings and said to Emerie, "Shall we?" Emerie took the hand Rhys extended. "Yes." She looked to Cassian, then to Nesta, and said, "Thank you." Damn if it didn't hit him in the heart, that gratitude and hope in Emerie's eyes. Rhys gathered her to him, careful of the intimate press of her wings against his body, and shot into the sky. As Rhys soared above the House's wards, just before he winnowed to Windhaven, he said to Cassian, I don't know what the fuck the two of you have been doing in this House, but it reeks of sex. Cassian snorted. A polite male never tells. Rhys's laughter rumbled in his mind. I don't think you know what the word polite means. Thank the gods for that. His brother laughed again. I told Az playing chaperone would be useless. <|title|>Chapter 29 <|startofchapter|>Nesta's legs gave out on step three thousand. Panting, sweat running down her back, down her stomach, she braced her hands on her trembling thighs and closed her eyes. The dream had been the same. Her father's face, filled with love and fear, then with nothing as he died. The crack of his neck. Hybern's sly, cruel smile. Cassian and Azriel hadn't been at dinner, and she'd received no explanation for it. They were probably either at the river house or out in the city, and she'd been surprised to find herself wishing for the company. Surprised to find that the silence of the dining room pressed on her. Of course she wouldn't be invited out. She'd made a point to be as unpleasant as possible for well over a year now. And more than that, they had no obligation to include her in everything. No one had any obligation to include her at all. Or the desire to, apparently. Her panting echoed off the red stone. She'd awoken from the nightmare in a cold sweat, and had been halfway here before she realized where she was going. If she even made it to the bottom, where would she go? Especially in her nightgown. She could still see her father behind her closed eyes. Felt every flash of horror and pain and fear she'd endured during those months surrounding the war. She had to find the Dread Trove--somehow. She'd failed every task they'd ever given her. Had failed to stop the wall from being blasted apart, failed to save the Illyrian legion from the Cauldron's incinerating blow-- Nesta shut down that train of thought. Something thudded on the step beside her, and she blinked to find a glass of water. "Thank you," she said, drinking deep, letting its coolness settle her further. She asked into the dimness, "Have you read any books by Sellyn Drake?" The House didn't answer, which she assumed amounted to a no. "A friend is bringing me one of her novels tomorrow. I'll share it with you when I'm done." Nothing. Then a cool breeze ran down the stairwell, soothing her sweaty brow. "Thank you," she said again, leaning into the breeze. Something else clinked beside her on the step, and she found two flat oval stones and three chunks of age-browned bone--anklebones of some ovine beast. Her mouth dried out. Bones and stones--for scrying. "I can't," she rasped. That breeze knocked the bones together, their clicking like a question thrown into the stairwell. Why? "Bad things happened the last time. The Cauldron looked at me. And took Elain." She couldn't stop her body from locking up. "I can't endure it, risk it. Not even for this." The bones and stones vanished, along with that cooling breeze. Nesta began the ascent, groaning softly. With each step, she could have sworn she tasted disappointment in the air. "Nesta has to start looking for the Trove," Amren said, swirling her wine in its glass as she sat across from Cassian at the river house's massive dining table. Their monthly court dinner, as usual, had turned into hours of talking around this table, and multiple bottles of wine later, as the clock ticked toward one in the morning, none of them showed any signs of moving. Only Feyre had gone to bed. Being pregnant made her unbearably sleepy, she'd groused. So tired that she needed naps throughout the day, and was asleep most nights by nine. Cassian met Amren's gray stare. "Nesta's been looking. Don't push her." Rhys said from where he lounged at the head of the table, "She's had the priestesses researching for her. I'd hardly call that looking." Varian, seated beside Amren, his arm draped over the back of her seat, asked, "You still haven't asked Helion to research the Trove in his libraries?" Varian was the only person outside of the Night Court--and Eris--whom Rhys had allowed to know of their search. But it had come with a risk: Varian served Tarquin, High Lord of the Summer Court. Though he had promised Rhys not to say anything about it to Tarquin without prompting, if Tarquin asked Varian about it, he'd find his allegiances held in a precarious balance. Tarquin and Rhys's relationship had healed since the war, but not enough for Rhys to trust the male with knowledge of the Trove. And Cassian, who'd gotten into one tiny little fight that might have resulted in one tiny little building being destroyed the last time he'd been in the Summer Court, was inclined to agree. Not about Tarquin. No, he liked the male. And liked Varian a great deal. But there were wicked people in the Summer Court--in every court--and he did not trust that they were as kind as their ruler. "Helion is a last resort," Rhys said, sipping his wine. "Which we may come to in a matter of days if Nesta does not at least attempt a scrying." The last words were directed toward Cassian. "I'd have Elain try her hand before we approach him, though." Elain had already departed with Feyre, claiming she had to be up with the dawn to tend to an elderly faerie's garden. Cassian didn't exactly know why he suspected this wasn't true. There had been some tightness in Elain's face as she'd said it. Normally when she made such excuses, Lucien was around, but the male remained in the human lands with Jurian and Vassa. Cassian countered, "Nesta will do it, if only to keep Elain from putting herself at risk. But you have to understand that Nesta was deeply affected by what happened during the war--Elain was taken by the Cauldron after she scried. You can't blame her for hesitating." Amren said, "We do not have the time to wait for Nesta to decide. I say we approach Elain tomorrow. Better to have both of them working on it." Azriel stiffened, an outright sign of temper from him as he said quietly, "There is an innate darkness to the Dread Trove that Elain should not be exposed to." "But Nesta should?" Cassian growled. Everyone stared at him. He swallowed, offering an apologetic glance to Az, who shrugged it off. Amren drained her wine and said to Cassian, "Nesta has a week. One more week to find the Trove with her own methods. Then we seek out other routes." She threw a nod toward Azriel. "Including Elain, who is more than capable of defending herself against the darkness of the Trove, if she chooses to. Don't underestimate her." Cassian and Azriel looked to Rhys, who merely sipped from his own wine. Amren's order held. As Rhys's Second in this court, short of Rhys overruling her, her word was law. Cassian glowered at Amren. "It's not right to wield Elain as a threat to manipulate Nesta into scrying." "There are harsher ways to convince Nesta, boy." Cassian leaned back in his chair. "You're a fool if you think threats will make her obey you." Everyone tensed again. Even Varian. Amren's lips spread in a sharp grin. "We are on the cusp of another war. We let the Cauldron slip from our hands in the last one and it nearly cost us everything." Amren's new Fae form was proof of that--she'd yielded her immortal, otherworldly self to remain in this body. No gray fire glowed in her eyes. She was mortal, in the way that High Fae were mortal. Varian's fingers tangled in the blunt ends of her hair, as if to reassure himself that she was here, she'd remained with him. "We must head off this potential disaster before we lose the advantage. If we need to manipulate Nesta into scrying, even by using Elain against her, then we'll do what is necessary." His stomach tightened. "I don't like it." "You don't have to like it," Amren said. "You just have to shut up and do as you're told." "Amren," Rhys said, the word laced with reprimand and warning. Amren didn't so much as blink in remorse, but Varian frowned at her. "What?" she snapped. The Prince of Adriata gave her an exasperated smile. "Haven't we talked about this? About ... being nice?" Amren rolled her eyes. But her face softened--ever so slightly--as she met Cassian's stare again. "A week. Nesta gets a week." Three days passed. Emerie came to each lesson, and while Gwyn had mostly caught up to Nesta's progress, Emerie would need more work. So Nesta and Gwyn partnered with each other, going through the sets of exercises that Cassian showed them before he worked one-on-one with Emerie on her balance and mobility. None of them minded, not when Emerie had been right about the Sellyn Drake books. Nesta had stayed up two nights in a row reading the author's first novel, which was as toe-curlingly erotic as she could have wished. And, as promised, Emerie had brought a copy of one of Drake's tamer novels for Gwyn, who had arrived blushing the next morning and told Emerie that if the book was considered tame, then she could only imagine the content of the others. After that first day, Emerie stayed for the entire length of their lessons, which had now officially stretched into a full three hours, deciding that her morning business traffic was slow enough to risk it. So they trained, and between their exercises they talked about books, and Nesta woke on the fourth morning and found herself ... excited to see them again. She was shelving a tome in the library that afternoon when Gwyn found her. Thanks to Gwyn's lesson each morning, she'd been busier in the afternoons, which meant that Nesta rarely saw her in the library save for when Gwyn was running through the stacks, hunting for some book or another for Merrill. Occasionally, Nesta heard a lovely, soaring snippet of song from some distant corner of the library--the sole indicator that Gwyn was near. But that afternoon, it was Gwyn's panting that announced her presence seconds before she appeared, her eyes wide enough that Nesta went on alert, scanning the dimness behind the priestess. "What?" Had the darkness below chased her? Gwyn mastered herself enough to say, "I don't know how, but Merrill learned you swapped the book out." She gasped for air as she pointed up to a level high above. "You should go." Nesta frowned. "Who cares? I'm not going to let her scare me off like some errant child." Gwyn blanched. "When she's in a fury, it is--" "It is what, Gwyneth Berdara?" crooned a female voice from the stacks. "When I'm in a fury, it is what?" Gwyn winced, turning slowly as the white-haired beauty appeared from the gloom. Her pale robes flowed behind her as if on a phantom wind, and the blue stone atop her hood flickered with light. Gwyn bowed her head, face paling. "I meant nothing by it, Merrill." Nesta ground her teeth at the bow, the fear on Gwyn's face, in her soft words. Priestesses halted along the railings above them. Merrill turned her remarkable eyes to Nesta. "I do not appreciate thieves and liars." "Neither do I," Nesta said coolly, lifting her chin. Merrill hissed. "You tried to play me for a fool in my very own office." She didn't so much as look at Gwyn, who cringed away. "I don't know what you're talking about." "Oh? You mean when I went to see the book that my inane assistant had incorrectly given me--oh, yes, I knew about that from the start--and found the proper volume instead, with your scent upon it, it wasn't you who did it?" Merrill looked between Gwyn and Nesta. "It is inexcusable to ask others to make up for your own stupidity and carelessness." Gwyn's fear grated against her senses. Nesta said, voice dropping, "Gwyn did no such thing. And who cares? Are you so bored down here that you have to invent these dramas to entertain yourself?" She waved a hand to the open walkway behind Merrill. "We're both busy. Clear off and let us work in peace." Someone gasped on a level above. Merrill laughed, that phantom wind around her whispering. "Do you not know who I am, girl?" "I know that you are keeping us from our work," Nesta said with that flat calm she knew made people irate. "And I know that this is a library, but you hoard books like it is your own personal collection." Merrill bared her teeth. "You think I do not know you? The human girl who was shoved into the Cauldron and came out High Fae. The female who slew the King of Hybern and held up his head like a trophy as his blood rained upon her." Surprise lit Gwyn's face at the graphic description. Nesta didn't allow herself to so much as swallow. "The wind whispers to me even here, under so much stone," Merrill said. "It finds its way in through the cracks and murmurs the goings-on of the world in my ear." Merrill snorted. "Do you think you are entitled to do as you please now?" Nesta's power rumbled in her veins. She stomped on it, shoved it down and strangled it. "I think you like to hear yourself talk too much." "I am descended from Rabath, Lord of the Western Wind," Merrill seethed. "Unlike Gwyneth Berdara, I am no lackey to be dismissed." To hell with this witch. To hell with restraint and hiding. Nesta let enough of her power simmer to the surface that she knew her own eyes glowed. Let it crackle, even as she ignored its wild, unholy bellowing. Gwyn had backed away a step. Even Merrill blinked as Nesta said, "With a fancy title like that, surely such a petty grudge should be beneath you." Nesta smiled, savage and cruel. Merrill only glanced between her and Gwyn before saying, "Get back to your work, nymph." Wind snapping at her heels, Merrill stalked into the gloom. Nesta dropped the thread of her power, quelling its music and roaring with an iron hand. But it wasn't until Merrill's brisk wind faded that Gwyn leaned against a stack, rubbing her hands over her face. The priestesses who'd been watching launched into movement again, their whispering filling the library. Nesta asked into the rustling quiet, "Nymph?" Gwyn lowered her hands, noted the lack of glowing power in Nesta's eyes, and sighed in relief. But her voice remained casual. "My grandmother was a river-nymph who seduced a High Fae male from the Autumn Court. So I'm a quarter nymph, but it's enough for this." Gwyn gestured to her large eyes--blue so clear it could have been the shallow sea--and her lithe body. "My bones are slightly more pliant than ordinary High Fae's, but who cares about that?" Perhaps that was why Gwyn was so good at the balancing and movement. Gwyn went on, "My mother was unwanted by either of their people. She could not dwell in the rivers of the Spring Court, but was too untamed to endure the confinement of the forest house of Autumn. So she was given in her childhood to the temple at Sangravah, where she was raised. She partook in the Great Rite when she was of age, and I, we--my sister and I, I mean-- were the result of that sacred union with a male stranger. She never found out who he was, for the magic chose him that night, and no one ever showed up to ask about twin girls. We were raised in the temple as well. I never left its grounds until ... until I came here." Such pain filled Gwyn's eyes then. Such terrible pain that Nesta knew not to ask about her mother, or the twin sister. Gwyn shook her head, as if dispelling the memory. She spread her fingers. "My twin had the webbed fingers of the nymphs--I don't." Had. Again, Gwyn sighed. "Merrill will make your life a living hell, you know." "She can try," Nesta said mildly. "It'd be difficult to make it any worse." "Well, now we have a common enemy. Merrill will never forget this." She nodded toward the railings where the priestesses had been. "Though I suppose they won't, either. It's not every day someone stands up to her. Only Clotho can really make her fall in line, but Clotho lets her have her way, mostly because Merrill throws those windy tantrums that can send everyone's manuscripts scattering." "Anytime you need someone to knock Merrill down a few pegs, let me know." Gwyn smiled slightly. "Next time, perhaps I'll have the courage to do it myself." It seemed the priestesses didn't forget what Nesta had done. Nesta, Gwyn, and Emerie were going through their opening stretches, Cassian stone-faced and eagle-eyed to catch any mistake, when footsteps scuffed in the archway beyond the pit. They all paused at the three hooded figures who emerged, hands clasped so tightly that their knuckles were white. But the priestesses stepped into the sunlight, the open air. Blinked up at it, as if remembering what such things were. Gwyn nimbly rolled to her feet, grinning so broadly that Nesta was momentarily taken aback by it. The priestess had been pretty in the library, but with that joy, that confidence as she aimed for the three priestesses, she had emerged into a beauty to rival Merrill or Mor. Or maybe nothing had changed at all beyond that confidence, the way Gwyn's shoulders were pushed back, her head high, her smile free as she said, "Roslin. Deirdre. Ananke. I was hoping you'd come." Nesta hadn't checked the sign-up sheet that morning. Had stopped believing anyone except Gwyn would ever come to training. But the three of them huddled together as Cassian offered a casual smile that was nearly a replica of Rhys's. Designed to put people at ease and lessen the threat of his power, his body. "Ladies," he said, gesturing to the ring. "Welcome." Roslin and Ananke said nothing, but the one in the middle, Deirdre, tugged back her hood. Nesta clamped down on every instinct that would have had her gasping. Emerie, on the mat beside her, seemed to be trying to do the same. A long, vicious scar cut across Deirdre's face, narrowly missing her left eye. It was raised, stark white against her brown skin, and flowed from her tightly curling black hair to her slender, lovely jaw. Her round dark eyes, framed by a thick sweep of lashes that made them seem even rounder, were wide but determined as she said, "We hope we are not too late." All of them looked to Nesta. But she wasn't the leader here. She threw Cassian a glance, and he gave her a shrug as if to say, I'm just the instructor. Another scar flowed down Deirdre's neck, disappearing beneath her robe. For such scars to exist on a High Fae at all suggested an event of such violence, such horror, that Nesta's stomach clenched. But she stepped toward the priestess. "We were just starting." "Give me those stones and bones, please," Nesta said quietly to the House as she sat in the private library, a map of all seven courts before her, Cassian a step behind her. A small earthenware bowl appeared beside the map, filled with them. Nesta swallowed against the dryness in her mouth. Cassian whistled. "It really does listen to you." She peered over a shoulder. She'd invited him here after she'd returned from working in the library out of pure caution, she told herself. If she lost control, if she wasn't able to witness where her finger landed on the map, someone had to be here. That person just so happened to be him. Never mind that he'd once stood beside her, his hand upon her back as it was now, and let her lean into his warmth and strength. Cassian glanced between the bowl of scrying instruments and the map. "Why did you change your mind?" Nesta didn't give herself time to hesitate before she slid her fingers into the bowl and scooped up the handful of stones and bones. They clinked against each other, hollow and ancient. "I couldn't stop thinking about those priestesses who came to practice today. Roslin said she hadn't set foot outside in sixty years. And Deirdre, with those scars ..." She took a long breath. "I am asking them to be brave, to work hard, to face their fears. Yet I'm not doing the same." "No one accused you of that." "I don't need anyone to say it. I know it. And I might fear this scrying, but I fear being a cowardly hypocrite even more." The priestesses had been novices in every sense of the word: Ananke had such terrible balance she'd fallen over trying to plant her toes in the dirt. Roslin had been only a fraction better. Neither had removed their hoods, not as Deirdre had done, but Nesta had caught glimpses of wine-red hair on Roslin and golden hair on Ananke, their skin pale as cream. Cassian said, "You sure you don't want to do this with Rhys and Amren around?" Nesta squeezed the bones and stones in her fist. "I don't need them." He fell silent, letting her concentrate. It had taken a few moments the first and only time she'd done it. To let her mind go empty, to wait for that tug through her body that had hauled her toward an unseen force. She'd been whipped across the earth, and when she'd opened her eyes, she'd been standing in a war-tent, the King of Hybern before her, the Cauldron a squatting, dark mass beyond. Nesta closed her eyes, willing her mind to quiet as she lifted her tight fist over the map. She focused upon her breathing, upon the rhythm of Cassian's breathing. Her swallow was loud to her ears. She'd failed at everything. But she could do this. She'd failed her father, failed Feyre for years before that. Failed her mother, she supposed. And with Elain, she'd failed as well: first in letting her get taken by Hybern that night they'd been stolen from their beds; then by letting her go into that Cauldron. Then when the Cauldron had taken her into the heart of Hybern's camp. She'd failed and failed and failed, and there was no end to it, no end-- "Anything?" "Don't talk." Cassian grunted, but sidled closer, his warmth now solidly at her side. Nesta willed her mind to empty. But it couldn't. It was like being in that damned stairwell--she just circled around and around and around, down and down. The Dread Trove. She had to find the Dread Trove. The Mask, the Harp, the Crown. But the other thoughts pressed in. Too many. The Mask, she strained to think. Where is the Mask of the Dread Trove? Her palm slickened with sweat, the stones and bones shifting in her fist. If the Mask was aware like the Cauldron had been ... She couldn't let it see her. Find what she loved most. Couldn't let it see her, find her, hurt her. The Mask, she willed the stones and bones. Find the Mask. Nothing answered. No tug, no whisper of power. She exhaled through her nostrils. The Mask, she willed them. There was nothing. Her heart thundered, but she tried again. A different route. Thought of their common origin--the one she and the Trove shared. The Cauldron. Yawning emptiness answered. Nesta furrowed her brow, clenching the items harder. Pictured the Cauldron: the vast bowl of darkest iron, so large multiple people could have used it as a bathtub. It had a physical shape, yet when that icy water had swallowed her, there had been no bottom. Just a chasm of freezing water that had soon become utter darkness. The thing that had existed before light; the cradle from which all life had come. Sweat beaded on her brow, as if her very body rebelled against the memory, but she made herself recall how it had sat in the King of Hybern's war-tent, squatting atop the reeds and rugs, a primordial beast that had been half-asleep when she'd entered. And then it had opened an eye. Not one she could see, but one that she could feel fixed on her. It had widened as it realized who stood there: the female who had taken so much, too much. It had narrowed all of its depthless power, its rage, upon her, a cat trapping a mouse with its paw. Her hand shook. "Nesta?" She couldn't breathe. "Nesta." She couldn't endure it, the memory of that ancient horror and fury-- She opened her eyes. "I can't," she rasped. "I can't. The power--I don't think I have it anymore." "It's there. I've seen it in your eyes, felt it in my bones. Try again." She couldn't summon it. Couldn't face it. "I can't." She dropped the stones and bones into their dish. She couldn't endure the disappointment in Cassian's voice, either, as he said, "All right." She didn't eat dinner with him. Didn't do anything except crawl into her bed and stare up at the darkness, and free-fall into it. It was searching for her. Winding through the hallways of the House, wending like a dark snake, it searched and sniffed and hunted for her. She couldn't move from her bed. Couldn't open her eyes to sound the alarm, to flee. She felt it come closer, crawling up the stairs. Down her hallway. She couldn't move her body. Couldn't open her eyes. Darkness slid through the crack between her door and the stone floor. No-- it couldn't have found her. It would catch her this time, hold her down on this bed and rip from her everything she had taken from it. The darkness slithered to her bed, and she forced her eyes open to see it gather over her, a cloud with no shape, no form, but such wicked presence that she knew its name before it leaped. She screamed as the Cauldron's darkness pinned her to the bed, and then there was nothing but the horrible weight of it filling her body, tearing her apart from the inside out-- And then nothing. Cassian jolted awake and reached for the knife on his nightstand. He didn't know why. He'd had no nightmare, heard no sound. Yet terror and dread sluiced through him, ratcheting up his heartbeat. The lone Siphon on his hand glowed like fresh blood, as if also seeking an enemy to strike. Nothing. But the air had gone cold as ice. So cold his breath clouded, and then the lamps flared to life. Flared and flickered, flashing, as if desperately signaling to him. As if the House were begging him to run. He vaulted from the bed, and the door opened before he could careen into it. Launching into the hall, knife in hand, he didn't care that he was in his undershorts, or that he only had one Siphon. Az's door flung open a heartbeat later, and his brother's steps closed in behind him as Cassian hit the stairs and raced down them. He'd reached the landing of Nesta's level when she screamed. Not a scream of rage, but of pure terror. His body distilled at that scream, as if it were no more than the knife in his hand, a weapon to be used to eliminate and destroy any threats to her, to kill and kill and not stop until every last enemy was dead or bleeding. Her door was open, and light blazed from within. Silvery, cold light. "Cassian," Az warned, but Cassian pushed himself faster, running as swiftly as he ever had in his life. He slammed into the archway of her door, rebounding off it and into the room, and came up short at what he beheld. Nesta lay in her bed, body arched. Bathed in silver fire. She was screaming, hands ripping at the sheets, and that fire burned and burned without destroying the blankets, the room. Burned and writhed, as if devouring her. "Holy gods," Azriel breathed. The fire radiated cold. Cassian had never heard of such a power amongst the High Fae. Fire, yes--but fire with warmth. Not this icy, terrible twin. Nesta arched again, sobbing through her teeth. Cassian lunged for her, but Azriel grabbed him around the middle. He snarled, debating whether he could rip out of Azriel's arms, but the hold Az had on him was too clever. Nesta screamed again, and a word appeared in it. No. She began shouting it, pleading, No, no, no. Nesta arched once more, and that fire sucked in, as if a great inhale had been made, and was about to be exhaled, rupturing through the world-- The windows of the room blew out. Night burst in, full of shadows and wind and stars. And as Nesta erupted, silver fire blasting outward, Rhys pounced. He smothered her fire with his darkness, as if he'd dropped a blanket on it. Nesta screamed, and this time it was a sound of pain. The night cleared enough that Cassian could see Rhys at the bed, roaring something that the wind and fire and stars drowned out. But from his lips, Cassian knew it was her name. "Nesta!" Rhys shouted. The wind cleared enough for Cassian to hear this time. "Nesta! This is a dream! " Nesta's fire reared again, and Rhys shoved a wave of blackness upon her. The entire House shook. Cassian thrashed against Azriel, bellowing at Rhys to stop it, stop hurting her-- Rhys's darkness pushed down, and Nesta's flame battled upward, as if their two powers were swords clashing in battle, fighting for the advantage. Dominance thundered in Rhys's words this time. "Wake up. It's a dream. Wake up." Nesta still fought, and Rhys gritted his teeth, power gathering again. "Let me go," Cassian said to Azriel. "Az, let me go right now." Azriel, to his surprise, did. Cassian knew the odds were against him. He had a knife and one Siphon. To get caught in the magic between Nesta and Rhys would be akin to entering a lion's den unarmed. But he walked to where silver fire and darkest night battled. And he said with steady calm, "Nesta." The silver fire flickered. "Nesta." He could have sworn her consciousness, that power, shifted toward him. Just long enough. The wave of Rhys's power that hit her wasn't the brute attack of earlier, but a soft wave that washed over that flame. Banked it. Rhys went still in a way that told Cassian his brother was no longer fully present, but rather in the mind of the female who had gone unmoving upon the bed. He'd rarely thought twice about Rhys's gifts as a daemati-- Feyre's gift, too--but he'd never been more grateful for it. Cassian barely dared to breathe. Azriel hovered behind him as Rhys stood before the bed. Slowly, that flame receded. Vanished like smoke. Slowly, Nesta's body relaxed. And then her breathing evened out, her body going limp. Blissfully unconscious. Cassian swallowed, his heart pounding so hard he knew Azriel could hear it as his brother came up beside him. Then Rhys inhaled sharply, his body full of movement again. Azriel asked, his own shadows gathering at his shoulders, "What happened?" But Rhys just walked to the little sitting area and slumped into a chair. The High Lord's hands were shaking--trembling so wildly that Cassian had no idea what to do. From the worry etched on Azriel's face, neither did his brother. Cassian asked, "Should we send for Feyre?" "No." The word was a snarl. Rhys's eyes flared like violet stars. "She doesn't come near here." "Was that ..." Azriel glanced to the bed and the unconscious female atop it. "That was Nesta's true power? That silver fire?" "Only the surface of it," Rhys whispered, hands still shaking as he ran them down his face. "Fuck." Cassian braced his feet, as if he could physically intercept whatever Rhys was about to say. "I went into her nightmare." Rhys peered up at Cassian. "Why didn't you tell me you attempted a scrying today?" "It didn't work." And Nesta's fear and guilt had been so heavy in the room that his chest had ached. He'd left her alone afterward, knowing she'd want privacy. Rhys blew out a shuddering breath. "The scrying was a trip wire. For the memories. I caught that as I went in." His throat worked, as if he'd heave, but he held it down. "She was dreaming of the Cauldron. Of ... of when she went in." Cassian had never seen Rhys at such a loss for words. "I saw it," Rhys whispered. "Felt it. Everything that happened within the Cauldron. Saw her take its power with her teeth and claws and rage. And I saw ... felt ... what it took from her." Rhys rubbed his face, and slowly straightened. He met Cassian's stare unflinchingly, his eyes full of remorse and agony. "Her trauma is ..." Rhys's throat bobbed. "I know," Cassian whispered. "I guessed," Rhys breathed, "but it was different to feel it." "What is her power?" Azriel asked. "Death," Rhys whispered, hands trembling again as he got to his feet and aimed toward the window, which was now repairing itself shard by shard, as if a careful, patient hand worked upon it. He gazed at the female sleeping in the bed, and fear clouded the face of the High Lord of the Night Court. "Pure death." <|title|>Chapter 30 <|startofchapter|>The dream had been real and not real, and there had been no end to it, no escape. Until a familiar male voice had said her name. And the terror had stopped, as if the axis of the world had shifted toward that voice. That voice, which became a doorway, full of light and strength. Nesta had reached a hand toward it. And then there had been another male voice in her mind, and this one had been familiar as well, and full of power. But it had been kind, in a way she had never heard the voice be to her, and it had eased her from the black pit of the dream, leading her with a star-flecked hand back to a land of drifting clouds and rolling hills under a bright moon. She had curled up on one of those hills, safe and guarded in the moonlight, and slept. Nesta dozed, heavy and dreamless, and did not open her eyes until sunlight, not moonlight, kissed her face. She was in her room, the sheets askew and half-spilled on the floor, but Cassian was sleeping in a chair beside her bed. His head was at an awkward angle, and his wings drooped onto the stone--and he was wearing only his undershorts and a blanket that looked as if someone had draped it over his lap. It had been a nightmare, she realized with a cold splash of awareness. She'd dreamed of the Cauldron; she'd been lost in it, screaming and screaming. And it had been his voice she'd heard. His voice and ... There was no sign of Rhysand. Just Cassian. She stared at him for long minutes, the unusual paleness of his face, the brows still scrunched with worry, as if he fretted for her even in his sleep. The sun gilded his dark hair and shone through his wings, bringing out the undertones of reds and golds in both. Like a knight guarding his lady. She couldn't stop the image, sprung from the pages of her childhood books. Like a warrior-prince, with those tattoos and that muscle-bound chest. Her throat tightened unbearably, her eyes stinging. She would not let herself cry, not for herself or for the sight of him keeping watch beside her bed all night. But it was as if her furious blinking woke him, as if he could hear the flutter of her lashes. His hazel eyes shot to hers, like he always knew precisely where she was. And they were so full of worry, of that unrelenting goodness, that she had to fight like hell to keep the tears from falling. Cassian said gently, "Hey." She clamped down on herself. "Hello." "Are you all right?" "Yes." No. Though not for the reason he believed. "Good." He groaned, stretching, first his arms and then his wings. Muscles rippled. "You want to talk about it?" "No." "That's fine." And that was that. But Cassian threw her a half smile, and it was so normal, so him in a way that no one else was or would ever be, that her throat tightened again. "You want breakfast?" Nesta managed to answer his half smile with one of her own. "I like your priorities, General." "What happened to you?" Emerie asked as they panted through their abdominal exercises. "You look white as death." "Bad dreams," Nesta said, willing herself not to look to where Cassian stood, instructing Roslin from a respectful distance on how to do a proper squat. They'd had a quiet breakfast, but it hadn't been awkward. It had been comfortable--easy. Pleasant. Gwyn asked, on Nesta's other side, "Do you have them often?" "Yes." Nesta finished a sit-up, grunting through the weakness in her middle. "Me too," Gwyn said quietly. "Some nights, I need a sleeping potion from our healer to knock me out." Emerie gave Gwyn an assessing look. Emerie never asked about Gwyn's past, or the histories of the other priestesses, but she was a cunning female. Surely she'd seen the way they kept a healthy distance from Cassian, scented their hesitation and fear, and put a few things together. Emerie asked Nesta, "What did you dream about?" Nesta's body locked up, but she launched back into motion, refusing to let the memories master her. "I dreamed of the Cauldron. What it did to me." Gwyn said, playing with her hair, "I dream of my past, too." But Gwyn's admission, Nesta's own, didn't weigh them down. Nesta's head had cleared slightly. And somehow, she found she could push herself harder. Perhaps in voicing those truths, they'd given them wings. And sent them soaring into the open sky above. "How are you holding up?" Cassian sat across from Rhys's desk at the river house, an ankle resting on a knee, and asked, "Me? How about you? You look like hell." "Yesterday was a rough day, followed by a rough night." Rhys rested his head atop a propped fist on his desk. Cassian angled his head. "What happened before the disaster that was last night?" Gods, he'd nearly wept this morning to open his eyes and find Nesta staring at him, her face clear and free of pain. The shadows still lingered, yes, but he'd take anything over her screaming. Over that magic Rhys could only explain as pure death. When Rhys didn't answer, Cassian said, "Rhys." Rhys didn't look at him as he whispered, "The baby has wings." Joy sparked through Cassian--even as the broken whisper and what those words meant made his blood go cold. "You're sure?" "We had an appointment with Madja yesterday morning." "But he's only a quarter Illyrian." It was possible, of course, for the baby to have inherited wings, but unlikely, given that Rhys himself had been born without them, and only conjured them through whatever strange, unearthly magic he possessed. "He is. But Feyre was in an Illyrian form when he was conceived." "That can make a difference? I thought she only made the wings-- nothing else." "She shape-shifts. She transforms her entire self into the form she takes. When she grants herself wings, she essentially alters her body at its most intrinsic level. So she was fully Illyrian that night." "She doesn't have the wings now." "No, she shifted back before we knew." "So let her change back into an Illyrian to bear the babe." Rhys's face was stark. "Madja has put a ban on any more shape- shifting. She says that to alter Feyre's body in any way right now could put the baby at risk. On the chance that it could be bad for the baby, Feyre is forbidden to so much as change the color of her hair until after the birth." Cassian raked a hand through his hair. "I see. But, Rhys--it'll be all right. It's not that bad." Rhys snarled. "It is bad. For so many gods-damned reasons, it is fucking bad." Rhys was as close to being beside himself as Cassian had seen him since he'd returned from Amarantha's court. "Breathe," Cassian said calmly. Rhys's eyes simmered; the stars within them winked out. "Fuck you." "Take a breath, Rhysand." Cassian gestured to the window behind him, the lawn sloping down to the river. "You want to go fight it out, I've got energy to burn." The study doors opened, and Azriel walked in. From the grim expression etched on his face, he already knew. Azriel claimed the seat beside Cassian. "Tell us what you need, Rhys." "Nothing. I need to not fall apart so my mate doesn't pick up a whiff of this when she comes home for lunch." Rhys narrowed his eyes, and power rumbled in the room. "No one says a word about this to Feyre. No one." "Didn't Madja warn her?" Azriel asked. "Not strongly. She only mentioned an elevated risk during labor." Rhys let out a harsh laugh. "An elevated risk." Cassian's stomach twisted. Azriel said, "I know this is bad timing, but there is another thing to consider, Rhys." Rhys lifted his head again. Azriel's face was like stone. "Feyre won't show for another few weeks, but someone will notice soon enough. People will learn of her pregnancy." "I know." "Eris will learn." "He's our ally. I suspect he'll be focused more on dealing with his father and finding his missing soldiers than on this." Then Az went for the throat. "And Tamlin will learn." Rhys's snarl set the lights guttering. "And?" Cassian shot Azriel a warning glare, but Az said, unafraid and unbowed, "We need to be prepared for any fallout." "Like I give a fuck about Tamlin right now." That Rhys couldn't understand what Az meant told Cassian how distraught and terrified he was. Cassian tried to mimic Az's calm tone. "He may react badly." "He sets foot over this border and he dies." "I don't doubt that," Cassian said. "But Tamlin is already hanging by a thread. You and Lucien have made it clear that he's barely improved this past year. Learning of Feyre's pregnancy might make him crumble again. With a new war possible and Briallyn up to her bullshit with Koschei, we need a strong ally. We need the Spring Court's forces." "So we're to hide her pregnancy from him?" "No. But we need to summon Lucien," Azriel said, just a shade tightly, as if he didn't like it one bit. "We need to tell him the news, and permanently station him at the Spring Court to contain any damage and to be our eyes and ears." Silence. They let the words sink in for Rhys. "The idea of coddling Tamlin makes me want to shatter that window," Rhys said, but it was with enough of a grumble that Cassian nearly sagged in relief. At least that sharp edge of violence had been dulled. Just a fraction. "I'll contact Lucien," Azriel offered. Fear still lingered in Rhys's eyes, so Cassian walked around the desk and hauled his High Lord to his feet. Rhys let him. Cassian slung an arm around Rhys's shoulders. "Let's go get bloodied up. <|title|>Chapter 31 <|startofchapter|>Nesta was just settling herself at the dining table, stomach gurgling with hunger, when Cassian entered. Limped in was more like it. She couldn't stop a near-silent gasp from escaping her as she took in the black eye, the split lip, the bruised jaw. "What happened?" she demanded. Cassian shuffle-hopped to his chair and then dropped into it. "I sparred with Rhys." "You look like a tenderized piece of meat." "You should see him." He laughed hoarsely. "Why did you fight like that?" If it had something to do with her nightmare-- "Rhys needed to get it out of his system." Cassian sighed at the bowl of roast chicken and rice soup that appeared before him. "Despite that smooth exterior my brother presents to the world, he needs to let loose every now and then." "Your idea of letting loose and mine appear to be very different." He snorted, sipping a spoonful of soup. "It wasn't for fun. Just to release some tension." "About what?" She knew she had no business inquiring. But Cassian set down the spoon, his face turning grave. "The baby has wings." She needed to blink a few times to process that. "How can they know already?" "Madja's magic allows her to glean a general shape of a babe within the womb, to check that all is well. He's large enough now for her to detect that all the limbs are in order ... and that he has wings." Utterly incredible, the way their magic could work. To actually be able to see within the womb itself. Nesta couldn't stop the small voice in her mind from wondering what her own power might do, if she untethered her leash on it. And couldn't stop the bolt of panic that answered. As if thinking about it would allow it to roam free. Nesta made herself ask, "So Rhysand didn't want the baby to have wings?" Cassian kept eating. "It's not that. It will be a joy for him, for me and Az and Feyre, too, I suppose, to teach the baby how to fly, to love the wind and sky as we do. The problem is the birth." "I don't understand." "How many half-Illyrians have you met?" "Only Rhys, I suppose." "That's because they're extremely uncommon. But Rhys's mother was Illyrian herself. And Illyrian women hardly ever marry and reproduce outside their communities. Illyrian males do so far more often, or at least fuck around, but you rarely see the offspring." "Why?" "Illyrian females have a pelvis shaped specifically for children with wings to pass through. High Fae females do not. And when a child has wings, they can get stuck during labor." His face had gone pale beneath the bruises. "Most females die, the babes with them. There's no way for magic to help, short of fracturing a female's pelvis to widen it for the birthing. Which might kill the babe anyway." "Feyre is going to die?" Her words were a whisper. For a heartbeat, every bit of spite, of anger, of bitterness faded away. Pure, clear panic replaced it. "A few do survive." Cassian made to rub his face, then stopped before he could press the bruises. "But the labor is so brutal that many of them either come close to death or are so altered by it that they can't have another child." "Even with a healer to repair them?" Her heart was pounding, so sickeningly fast she had to set down her utensils. "Honestly, I don't know. And any attempts in the past to cut the child out of the mother's womb have been ..." He shuddered. "No mother has ever survived." Nesta's blood turned to acid. Cassian rolled his shoulders. "So we won't even try that route. Madja will be there each step of the way, though, doing whatever she can. And we don't yet know how Feyre's own magic will impact the birth." "Is Feyre distraught?" "She doesn't know the full scope of it. But all of us who have grown up here know what it means for a High Fae female to bear a baby with wings." Nesta willed herself to settle the fear leaching through her. "And Rhys needed to fight out his fear." "Yes. Along with his guilt and pain." "Perhaps another court has a healer who knows more than Madja. Maybe one with a winged people. The Dawn Court has the Peregryns-- Drakon's people are Seraphim. Miryam doesn't have wings and yet she's given birth to Drakon's children." "Rhys is heading to their island tomorrow. And Mor is making discreet inquiries at the Fae courts on the continent." He ran a hand through his hair, Siphon catching the light. "If there is a way to save Feyre from a death sentence, Rhys will find it. He will stop at nothing until he figures out a way to spare her." Silence fell, and the weight upon her chest was nearly unbearable. Rhys would do that, she knew without a doubt. The High Lord would go to the ends of the world for a way to save Feyre. She said quietly, "I'll try scrying again." Cassian's black eye was stark in the light as he lowered his brows in warning. "After last night--" She lifted her chin. If that babe survived ... Nesta would not allow him to be born into a world once more plunged into war. But she didn't say that, couldn't open herself up like that. "I need to regain my strength after yesterday's attempt. We'll do it tomorrow night." "I want Rhys and Amren there. And Az." "Fine." Cassian leaned back in his chair. It was almost comical, his heavy stare combined with his split lip and black eye. He said after a moment, "Why haven't you sought me out?" Nesta knew what he meant solely from the way his voice had dropped an octave. She could play this game of distraction. He had no idea how well she'd learned to play it. So she let her own voice drop, too. "Why haven't you sought me?" "I'm taking my cues from you. You seemed to have no interest in me after ..." He nodded to the table between them, the floor where she'd knelt between his legs. "I didn't hurt you, did I?" Nesta let out a rough laugh. "No, you didn't hurt me." She reached across the table, tracing a finger down his arm before meeting his eyes. "I loved it when you fucked my mouth, Cassian." His eyes darkened. She rose, and he went wholly still as she rounded the table and came to a stop beside his chair. "Do you want to fuck me on this table?" she asked softly, running a hand over the smooth surface. He shuddered, as if he imagined that touch on his skin. "Yes," he said, voice guttural. "On this table, on this chair, on every surface in the House." "I don't think the House would appreciate such filthy behavior. Even if it's a romance reader as well." "I... What?" His breath had turned uneven. She leaned in to press a kiss against his torn mouth. It wasn't a loving gesture. Wasn't even a sweet one. It was a challenge and a wicked taunt to forget their fear and pain and come tangle with her. "I have no interest in bedding a male who looks like he's been in a tavern brawl," she said onto his lips. "We can dim the lights." Nesta chuckled. Desire had fogged his eyes, and she knew if she looked down, she'd see the evidence of how affected he was. But she wouldn't give herself that temptation. He'd be her reward--but only after she'd accomplished the scrying. Her lips curved. "When you're healed and looking pretty again," she said, pulling away, "then I'll let you fuck me wherever you please in this House." Cassian's hands dug into the arms of his chair, as if restraining himself from leaping upon her. But his mouth parted in a savage grin. "Deal." No one asked about Nesta's change of heart when she and Cassian entered the study in the river house late the next afternoon and found Rhys, Feyre, Azriel, and Amren waiting before a giant map of the faerie realms. A bowl of stones and bones sat beside it. They all stared, weighed and judged her. But her eyes went to Feyre, who stood across the room, a hand resting idly on the slight swell of her belly. Nesta refused to let anything show on her face as she offered her sister a small nod of greeting. She hated herself when Feyre's eyes softened-- hated the raw emotion there as Feyre nodded back, smiling tentatively. She couldn't stand the relief and happiness in Feyre's eyes. That merely acknowledging her sister politely had caused it. Unable to stomach it, Nesta glanced to where Rhysand stood at Feyre's side. One look into his eyes and Nesta allowed her mind to open--just a crack. I will not say a word to Feyre, she swore. She didn't do it for any particular kindness, but to wipe that cautious look from Rhys's eyes before it grated further. He'd no doubt either heard or guessed that Cassian had told her about the baby's wings. Rhys only said, his voice wary, Thank you. Nesta didn't ask about his visit to Miryam and Drakon--if he'd learned anything at all. She reached the table, Cassian keeping close. But she forgot about him as she faced Amren, who was watching her with cool distaste. The words from months ago that Nesta had tried so hard to forget swarmed from the darkest pit of her memory, each one stinging. You have become a pathetic waste of life. Nesta dropped Amren's stare, focusing on the map. "Let's be quick about this." Azriel asked from beside Amren, "When you attempted it two days ago, you felt nothing?" "Nothing." Nesta's fingers hovered over the bowl of tools. "My mind circled itself." "What did you think of?" Amren asked. How much she hated herself. Her father. How much she feared the Cauldron. Nesta said, "The Trove. And what happened the last time I scried." Feyre said, "We won't allow any harm to come to Elain. Rhys warded her this morning, and we have eyes on her at all times." "Eyes can be blinded," Nesta said. "Not the ones under my command," Azriel said with soft menace. Nesta met his stare, knowing he was the only one aside from Feyre who could truly understand her hesitation. He'd gone with Feyre into the heart of Hybern's camp to save Elain--he knew the risk. "We won't make the same mistake twice." She believed him. "All right." She scooped up the stones and bones. They were ice-cold against her fingers. Clenching them tight, Nesta closed her eyes and held her arm over the map spread across the table. No one spoke, though the weight of their gazes pressed on her. Cassian's warmth seeped into her side, his wings rustling near her back. She let that warmth, the rustle anchor her. He had come to save her from her nightmare, had stayed with her while she slept. Had guarded and fought for her. He would let no harm come to her now. What had been an endless spiral of thoughts vanished. A gaping hole yawned open in her mind. Nesta eased into that darkness, as if slowly submerging herself in a pool. Cassian's arm brushed hers, and she let that anchor her, too. A lifeline out. She took his hand with her free one and interlaced their fingers. Let the touch ground her as she allowed the last of her mind to slip beneath the black surface. And then nothing. Falling slowly. Drifting, like a small stone fluttering to the bottom of a pond. The Mask, she whispered, casting her mind into the eternity. Where is the Mask of the Dread Trove? Still she drifted in liquid night. In the beginning, and in the end, there was Darkness and nothing more. She had first heard that truth, understood it, during her battle with the Cauldron. And understood it again now as she floated into that same strange place, both full and empty, forever cold. Where is the Mask? she asked the void. Distantly, like a candle in a window, she felt Cassian's hand tighten on hers. That was the way back. Nothing could trap her, hold her, if she had that way home. Where is the Mask? For long minutes, only the ticking of the grandfather clock in the corner filled the study. Nesta stood beside Cassian, her fingers now loose in his hand, her other hand extended over the map, bones and stones bulging within. Cassian swapped glances with Feyre. He'd barely been able to look at her when he'd entered, to see the slight swelling in her lower belly. But he'd made himself grin, the portrait of casual, arrogant ease. Now a chilled, phantom breeze drifted past him. The hair on the back of his neck stood. Amren let out a soft hiss. "Where is she wandering to?" Nesta's hand remained over the map. But her fingers in his had gone cold as ice. Cassian squeezed her hand, willing warmth into it. Across the table, Azriel's breath clouded. Rhys stepped closer to Feyre, positioning himself to intercept any unexpected threats. "This didn't happen that time during the war with Hybem," Azriel murmured. Before any of them could answer, Nesta's eyelids shifted--like she was seeing something. Her brows bunched, just a quiver toward each other. Her fingers tightened on the stones and bones, knuckles going white. Still the air grew colder. "If you see the Mask, girl, then now would be the time to let go," Amren ordered, her voice wary. Nesta's hand remained shut. But her eyes still moved rapidly behind their lids, searching, seeking. "Nesta," Feyre commanded. "Open your hand." Feyre had gone into Nesta's mind the last time--had pulled her out, thanks to the daemati power she'd inherited from Rhys. Feyre swore softly. "She never lowered her shields. Her shields are ..." "A fortress of solid iron," Rhys murmured, eyes on Nesta. "I can't get in," Feyre breathed. "Can you?" "Her mind is guarded with something that no faerie magic can break," Amren said. The essence of the Cauldron itself. But Nesta showed no sign of fear, no scent of it. "Give her time," Cassian murmured. Gods, it was cold. Nesta's eyelids fluttered again. "I don't like this," Feyre said. "Wherever she is, it feels deadly." The cold kept dropping. Nesta's hand tightened in his--a hard squeeze. A warning. "Get her out, Rhys," Cassian demanded. "Get her out now." "I can't," he said softly, his power a cloak of stars and night around him. "I-- The doors to her mind were open the other night. They're shut now." "She doesn't want it seeing her. Or us," Feyre said, her face tight. "She's locked it out, but also locked herself in." Cassian's stomach twisted. "Nesta," he said into her ear. "Nesta, open your hand and come back." Her breathing sharpened. The cold deepened. "Nesta," he snarled-- And the cold halted. It didn't vanish, but rather ... stopped. Nesta's eyes flicked open. Silver fire burned within. Nothing Fae looked out through them. Rhys shoved Feyre behind him. She shoved her way back to his side. But Nesta's hand continued to squeeze Cassian's. He squeezed back, let his Siphons send a bite of power into her skin. She turned her head so slowly it was like watching a puppet move. Her eyes met his. Death watched him. But Death had walked beside him every day of his life. So Cassian stroked his thumb along her palm and said, "Hello, Nes." Nesta blinked, and he let his Siphons bite her with his power again. The fire flickered. He nodded to the map. "Let go of the stones and bones." He didn't let her scent his fear. Here was the being the Bone Carver had whispered about, exalted and feared. Her eyes flamed. No one dared breathe. "Let go of the stones and bones, and then you and I can play," Cassian said, letting her sense his heat and need, forcing himself to remember that taunting kiss at dinner and her promise to let him fuck her wherever he wished in the House; what it had done to him, how much he'd ached. He let it all blaze in his eyes, let the scent of his arousal wrap around her. Everyone tensed as he leaned in, head dipping, and kissed her. Nesta's lips were chips of ice. But he let their coldness sting his own, and brushed his mouth against hers. Nipped at her bottom lip until he felt it drop a fraction. He slid his tongue into that opening, and found the inside of her mouth, usually so soft and warm, crusted with hoarfrost. Nesta didn't kiss him back, but didn't shove him away. So Cassian sent his heat into it, fusing their mouths together, his free hand bracing her hip as his Siphons nipped at her hand once more. Her mouth opened wider, and he slid his tongue over every inch--over her frozen teeth, over the roof of her mouth. Warming, softening, freeing. Her tongue lifted to meet his in a single stroke that cracked the ice in her mouth. He slanted his mouth over hers, tugging her against his chest, and tasted her as he'd wanted to taste her the other night, deep and thorough and claiming. Her tongue again brushed against his, and then her body was warming, and Cassian pulled back enough to say against her lips, "Let go, Nesta." He drove his mouth into hers again, daring her to unleash that cold fire upon him. Something thunked and clinked beside them. And when Nesta's other hand gripped his shoulder, fingers now free of stones and bones, when she arched her neck, granting him better, deeper access, he nearly shuddered with relief. She broke the kiss first, as if sliding into her body and remembering who kissed her, where they were, who watched. Cassian opened his eyes to find her so close that they shared breath. Normal, unclouded breath. Her eyes had returned to the blue-gray he knew so well. Stunned surprise and a little fear lit her face. As if she'd never seen him before. "Interesting," Amren observed, and he found the female studying the map. Feyre gaped, though, Rhys's hand gripped tight in her own. Caution blazed on Rhys's face. On Azriel's, too. What the hell did you do to pull her out of that? Rhys asked. Cassian didn't really know. The only thing I could think of. You warmed the entire room. I didn't mean to. Nesta pulled away--not harshly, but with enough intent that Cassian peered at where she and Amren focused on the map. "The Bog of Oorid?" Feyre frowned at the spot in the Middle. "The Mask is in a bog?" "Oorid was once a sacred place," Amren said. "Warriors were laid to rest in its night-black waters. But Oorid changed to a place of darkness-- don't give me that look, Rhysand, you know what I mean--a long time ago. Filled with such evil that no one will venture there, and only the worst of the faeries are drawn to it. They say the water there flows to Under the Mountain, and the creatures who live in the bog have long used its underground waterways to travel through the Middle, even into the mountains of the surrounding courts." Feyre frowned. "It can't be more specific, though?" She asked Rhys, "Do we have a detailed map of the Middle?" Rhys shook his head. "It's forbidden to map the Middle beyond vague landmarks." He pointed to the sacred mountain in its center, where he'd been held for nearly fifty years. "The Mountain, the woods, the bog ... All can be seen from land and air. But its secrets, those discovered on foot--those are forbidden." Feyre's frown didn't lighten. "By whom?" "An ancient council of the High Lords. The Middle is a place where wild magic still dwells and thrives and feeds. We respect it as its own entity, and do not wish to provoke its wrath by revealing its mysteries." Feyre faced Nesta, who was staring blankly at where the stones and bones had fallen in a neat little pile atop the bog. "The Middle is where the Weaver of the Wood dwelled," Feyre said, voice tight. "If you go to the bog, you'll need to be armed." "We'll both be armed," Cassian declared. "To the teeth." When Nesta didn't respond, they all looked at her. None of them dared ask about that power, the being that had looked out at him. The one he'd melted away with his kiss. He could still taste that ice on his tongue, smell the scent similar to hers yet wholly different. Nesta said, "We go tomorrow." Feyre started, "You need time to prepare--" "We go tomorrow," Nesta repeated. Cassian gleaned everything she wouldn't say. She wanted to go tomorrow so she didn't have the chance to think better of it. To learn more about the peril she'd be facing. His fingers brushed against the small of her back, savoring her warmth after all that cold. "We'll leave after breakfast." <|title|>Chapter 32 <|startofchapter|>"I should go with you," Rhys said to Cassian as they gathered in the foyer of the river house the next morning. "I should go with you," Feyre countered, leaning against the stair railing, frowning at her mate and Cassian. Nesta watched them in silence, the weight of the weapons she carried like phantom hands pushing on her back, her thighs, her hips. You're still as likely to hurt yourself as you are an opponent, Cassian had said as he laid his weapons on the dining table this morning, but it's better than going into Oorid unarmed. She'd selected a dagger and he'd grinned. Pointy end goes into your enemy. She'd given him a withering look, but had allowed him to assist her with the straps and buckles of the various sheaths, focusing upon his strong hands whispering over her skin and not the task at hand. "We both should go with you," Rhys amended. "But at least Azriel will be there." "Thanks for your confidence," Cassian said wryly, and kissed Feyre's cheek. Rhys must have lowered her shield--for the moment. "You two aren't even parents yet and your mother-henning has reached an unbearable level." "Mother-henning?" Feyre choked on a laugh. "Its a word," Cassian said, so casually that Nesta wondered if he comprehended the danger they were walking into. Nesta slid her gaze to Azriel, who shrugged subtly in confirmation. Yes, they were about to venture into a lethal, ancient bog. No, Cassian didn't seem as disturbed as the two of them were. Nesta scowled, and Az offered her a slight smile. They could be allies, that smile seemed to say. Against Cassian's utter insanity. She found herself answering Azriel with a slight smile of her own. Rhys sighed to the ceiling. "Shall we?" Nesta glanced up the stairs past Feyre. Elain had again opted to remain in her room when Nesta was present, which was just fine. Absolutely, utterly fine. Elain could make her own choices. And had chosen to thoroughly shut the door on Nesta. Even as she fully embraced Feyre and her world. Nesta's chest tightened, but she refused to think of it, acknowledge it. Elain was like a dog, loyal to whatever master kept her fed and in comfort. Nesta wrenched her attention from the stairs, cursing herself for a fool for even looking. "I don't like this," Feyre blurted, stepping toward her. "You haven't had enough training." Cassian smirked. "She has two Illyrian warriors guarding her. What could go wrong?" "Don't answer that," Rhys said drily to his mate. He met Nesta's gaze. Stars were born and died in his eyes. "If you don't want to go--" "You need me," Nesta said, chin lifting. "The bog is large enough that you won't be able to find the Mask without my ... gifts." She had no idea how she'd find the Mask in Oorid, but they could at least begin exploring the area today. Or so Cassian had said this morning. Feyre seemed poised to object, but Azriel extended his scarred hands to Cassian and Nesta. Feyre stepped forward again. "The Middle is like nothing you have experienced before, Nesta. Don't let your guard down for a moment." Nesta nodded, not bothering to say that she'd operated by that principle for a long time. Azriel didn't give them a chance to exchange another word before murmuring shadows swept around them. Nesta couldn't help clinging to Azriel, gleaning on some innate level that if she let go, she would tumble through this space between places and be lost forever. But then gray, watery light hit her. And the air--the air was heavy, full of slow-running water and mold and loamy earth. No wind moved around them; not even a breeze. Cassian whistled. "Look at this hellhole." Dropping Azriel's hand, Nesta did just that. Oorid stretched before them. She had never seen a place so dead. A place that made the still-human part of her recoil, whispering that it was wrong wrong wrong to be here. Azriel winced. The shadowsinger of the Night Court winced as the full brunt of Oorid's oppressive air and scent and stillness hit him. The three of them surveyed the wasteland. Even the Cauldron's water hadn't been as solidly black as the water here, as if it were made of ink. In the shallows mere feet away, where the water met the grass, not one blade was visible where the surface touched it. Dead trees, gray with age and weather, jutted like the broken lances of a thousand soldiers, some draped with curtains of moss. No leaves clung to their branches. Most of the branches had been cracked off, leaving jagged spears extending from the trunks. "Not one insect," Azriel observed. "Not one bird." Nesta strained to listen. Only silence answered. Empty of even a whistle of a breeze. "Who would bury their dead here?" "They didn't put them in the earth," Cassian said, his voice oddly muffled, as if that thick air gobbled up any echo. "These were water burials." Nesta said, "I'd rather be burned to ashes and cast to the wind than be left here." "Noted," Cassian said. "This is an evil place," Azriel whispered. True fear shone in the shadowsinger's hazel eyes. The hair on Nesta's arms rose. "What manner of creature dwells here?" "You're asking this now?" Cassian said, brows high. He and Azriel had both worn their thicker armor, summoned by tapping the Siphons atop the backs of their hands. "I was scared to ask before," Nesta admitted. "I didn't want to lose my nerve." Cassian opened his mouth, but Azriel said, "Things that hunt in the water and feast on flesh." "No one's seen a kelpie in a damn long time," Cassian countered. "That doesn't mean they're gone." "What's a kelpie?" Nesta asked, heart pounding at the tension etched into their faces. "An ancient creature--one of the first true monsters of the faeries," Cassian said. "Humans called them by other names: water-horses, nixies. They were shape-shifters who dwelled in the lakes and rivers and lured unwitting people into their arms. And after they drowned them, they feasted. Only the entrails would make it back to shore." Nesta stared toward the bog's black surface. "And they live in there?" "They vanished hundreds of years before we were born," Cassian said firmly. "They're a myth whispered around fires, and a warning for children not to play near the water. But no one knows where they went. Most were hunted, but the survivors ..." He conceded with a nod to Azriel, "It's possible that they fled to the Middle. The one place that could protect them." Nesta grimaced. Cassian threw her a grin that didn't meet his eyes. "Just don't go running after a beautiful white horse or a pretty-faced young man and you'll be fine." "And stay out of the water," Azriel added solemnly. "What if the Mask is in the water?" She gestured to the vast bog. They'd fly over it, they'd decided, and let her sense whatever lay here. "Then Az and I will draw straws like the tough warriors we are and the loser goes in." Azriel rolled his eyes, but chuckled. Cassian's grin at last glowed in his gaze as he opened his arms. "Oorid's beauty awaits, my lady." Cassian had been to some horrible places in his five centuries of existence. The Bog of Oorid was by far the worst. Its very essence spoke of death and decay. The oppressive air muffled even the sound of their wings, like Oorid would abide no sound disturbing its ancient slumber. Nesta clung to him as he flew, Az at his side, and Cassian peered at the dead forest that spread below, the black water that had flooded it like an obsidian mirror. It was so still that he could see their reflections perfectly. The wind whipping her braided hair, Nesta said, "I'm not sure what I'm looking for." "Just keep all your senses open and see if anything sparks." Cassian began a wide circle to the west. The air seemed to press on his wings, as if it would cast them down to the earth. But to enter that black water would be a last resort. Islands of grass dotted the expanse, some so crowded with brambles that he could find no safe place to land. The tangles of thorns were a mockery of what might have been--as if Oorid had ever produced roses. Not a single flower bloomed. "It's unbearable." Nesta shivered. "We'll stay only as long as we can stomach it," Cassian said, "and if we don't find anything, we'll return tomorrow and pick up where we left off." He had two swords, four knives, an Illyrian bow, and a quiver of arrows, plus all seven Siphons. Yet he couldn't shake the feeling of flying naked. "What else dwells here other than kelpies?" "Some say witches," he murmured. "Not the human kind," he added when she raised a brow. "The kind that used to be something else and then their thirst for magic and power turned them into wretched creatures, banished here by various High Lords." "They don't sound so bad." "They drink young blood to fill the coldness the magic left in them." Nesta winced. Cassian went on as she scanned the bog, "There are lightsingers: lovely, ethereal beings who will lure you, appearing as friendly faces when you are lost. Only when you're in their arms will you see their true faces, and they aren't fair at all. The horror of it is the last thing you see before they drown you in the bog. But they kill for sport, not food." "And all these horrible creatures are just left here, untended?" "The Middle lies under no High Lord's jurisdiction. It's long been the dumping ground for any unwanteds." "Not the Prison?" "Their crimes are ones of nature. A kelpie is designed to lure and kill, just as a wolf is designed to hunt its prey. The Middle keeps them separate from us without punishing them for what they were made to be." "But no one will come rid the world of them?" "The Middle is full of primal magic. It has its own rules and laws. Hunt the kelpies or lightsingers without provocation and you might find yourself trapped here." She shuddered. "How would the Mask have wound up in the bog?" "I don't know." He nodded toward the ground. "You feel anything?" "No. Nothing." Cassian glanced over a shoulder to Az before they entered a cloud of mist hovering above the northern section of the bog. It was so thick that Cassian rose higher, not wanting to impale them on a tall tree. The mist was chill enough to run icy fingers down his wings, his face. Nesta jolted, then breathed, "Cassian." He cleared the mist, banking to the left. "You sensed something?" "I don't know what I sensed." She swallowed. "Something is here." He looked over his shoulder again to signal Azriel. But Az wasn't there. <|title|>Chapter 33 <|startofchapter|>"Azriel!" Cassian's shout didn't even echo. Clinging to his neck, Nesta scanned the mist. Cassian hung back from it, wings beating in place as he searched for his brother. "Hold on," he hissed before he launched into a drop, using the momentum to swoop into the mist. Blue light flared below--ahead. Azriel's Siphons. "Fuck," Cassian spat, and shot lower. Trees thrust upward, sharp as swords, and he swerved around them, wings within an inch of shredding on those spikes. Nesta's heart thundered, but she wouldn't shut her eyes against the death all around, not as Cassian dropped beneath the mist's curtain and they beheld what Azriel faced. Cassian turned so swiftly Nesta barely had time to brace herself, and then he was flying back the way he'd come, through the mist. "Where are you going?" she demanded. "There are two dozen soldiers there!" "Autumn Court soldiers," Cassian clarified, wings pumping so hard the wind ripped at her eyes. "I don't know what the fuck they're doing here, or if Eris has royally fucked us over, but one of them shot an ash arrow through Az's wing." "Then why are we flying away?" "Because I'm not landing with you in the middle of that." "Put me down!" she shouted. "Put me down wherever and go back to him!" He didn't, surveying the bog below for the right place. She slammed a hand on his muscled chest. "Cassian!" "I know what each second costs me, Nesta," he said quietly. "Put me down in a fucking tree, then!" She pointed to one that they narrowly avoided. He spotted an area he deemed safe enough: a solid stretch of grassy land, the remnants of a tree rising from its midst. He set her in the tree, as she'd suggested, perching her on the highest, sturdiest branch. It groaned and swayed beneath their weight. "Stay here," he commanded, waiting until she'd wrapped her hands around the branch and was clinging like a child who'd climbed too high. "I'll be back soon. Do not climb down. No matter what you may see or hear." "Go." She was utterly useless in a fight, she knew. She would only distract him. "Be careful," he warned, as if he weren't the one about to head into danger, and then he was gone. Nesta clung to the tree branch so hard her entire body trembled, the silence of the bog wrapping around her like a leaden blanket. Oorid devoured Cassian's swift wingbeats within seconds, so she couldn't even hear him as he disappeared into the mist. Cassian aimed toward where his senses told him Az still fought. His eyesight sure as fuck didn't help him--the mist seemed thicker now. The Autumn Court was here. Were these Eris's missing soldiers, or had he played them all for fools? Had Beron somehow learned of their plans? He flew, swift as he could, praying Az had held them off, even with that ash bolt through his wing. The restraint of the ash bolt on Az's power was the only reason the soldiers weren't already dead--why Azriel's Siphons had been a flicker and not an incinerating wall against soldiers who were far less skilled. Cassian descended into cool calm, willing each of his Siphons awake. He fed his power into them, and they refracted it back, confirming that they were ready, he was ready, for the bloodletting to begin. Azriel's blue Siphons flared ahead, a smear of cobalt in the mist, and Cassian shot higher into the sky, until that blue was a flutter beneath him. He stopped flapping entirely so the warriors wouldn't hear any wingbeats. Then he spread his wings silently and slid into a free fall. Mist bit at him, the heavy air slapped his face, but he drew a blade and the knife at his thigh in silence. The mist broke five feet above the skirmish. The soldiers didn't have time to look up before Cassian was upon them. Blood sprayed and males screamed, power bouncing off the red of Cassian's Siphons. Az battled it out with six soldiers at once, left wing limp and bleeding, his own Siphons blazing. The ash bolt had rendered Az's power nearly useless. But the Siphons had been blazing as a signal--for Cassian. The sight of Az's injured wing made his head begin roaring. Cassian killed and killed and did not stop. Too long. Cassian and Azriel had been gone for too long. Nesta's limbs were beginning to lock up from the effort of clinging like a bear cub to the tree. She knew she had scant minutes until her body rebelled and let go. There was no sound, no flash of light. Only the silent bog and the mist and the dead tree. Every breath echoed her thoughts. Every breath was gobbled up by Oorid's oppression. She'd seen Cassian face Hybern soldiers. Two dozen from the Autumn Court should be nothing. But why were they here? Her legs shook so badly she nearly lost her grip on the branch. She knew she presented an utterly pathetic picture, laid out along the branch precisely as Cassian had left her, legs wrapped around it, ankles crossed over each other, fingers digging into the dry, silvery wood. Carefully, she pushed herself up, her arms tingling with the numbness of clenching tight for so long. Her legs buckled with relief, too, as she released their grip, letting them hang in the air. She scanned the general direction Cassian had gone. Nothing. He'd fallen in battle before--she'd seen him gravely injured. The first time in Hybern, when he'd tried to crawl toward her as she went into the Cauldron. The second time against Hybern's forces, when he'd been gutted and Azriel had held his entrails in with his bare hands. And the third time against the King of Hybern himself, when she had asked him, ordered him, to use her as bait, the distraction while she drew the king away from Feyre and the Cauldron. After so many brushes with death, it was only a matter of time until it stuck. Her mouth dried out. Azriel had been struck with an ash arrow. What if the soldiers had injured Cassian similarly? What if they were both in need of help? She could do nothing against two dozen soldiers--against a single soldier, if she was being honest--but she couldn't endure sitting in a tree like a coward. Not knowing if he lived. And she had magic. Had no idea how to use it, but ... she had that, at least. Maybe it would help. She told herself she was concerned for Azriel, too. Told herself she cared about the shadowsinger's fate as much as Cassian's. But it was Cassian's dead face that she couldn't bear to imagine. Nesta didn't let herself reconsider as she again laid herself out on the branch, wrapping her arms around it as she blindly lowered her leg, seeking the branch just beneath-- There. Her foot found purchase, but she didn't let it bear her full weight. Still clinging to the branch, fingernails digging into the dead wood hard enough that splinters sliced beneath them, she lowered herself onto the one below. Panting, she knelt again, and once more lowered her foot, finding another branch. But it was too far. Grunting, she brought her leg back up and carefully placed her hands on either side of her knees, focusing upon her balance, just as Cassian had taught her, thinking through every motion of her body, her feet, her breathing. Fingertips screaming at the splinters piercing the sensitive flesh beneath her nails, she dropped her legs until they hit the branch below. The branch under it was closer but thinner--wobblier. She had to lay herself flat on it to keep from teetering off. Branch by branch, Nesta descended until her boots sank into the mossy ground, and the tree loomed like a giant above her. The bog stretched all around, miles of black water and dead trees and grass. She'd have to wade through the water to reach him. Nesta focused on her breathing--or tried to. Each inhale remained shallow, sharp. Cassian could be hurt and dying. To sit idle wasn't an option. She scanned the shoreline five feet ahead for any hint of shallower water to wade through to the nearest mossy island, covered in flesh- shredding thorns, but the water was so black it was impossible to determine if it was shallow or if it dropped to a bottomless pit. Nesta focused on her breathing again. She knew how to swim. Her mother had made sure of it, thanks to a cousin who had drowned in childhood. Murdered by faeries, her mother had claimed. I saw her dragged into the river. Had it been a kelpie? Or her mother's own fears warped into something monstrous? Nesta made herself approach the edge of the black water. Run, a small voice whispered. Run and run, and do not look back. The voice was female, gentle. Wise and serene. Run. She couldn't. If she were to run, it would be toward him, not away. Nesta stepped to the water's edge, where grass disappeared into blackness. Her face stared back at her from the stillness. Pale and wide-eyed with terror. Run. Was that voice merely all that remained of her human instincts, or something more? She gazed at her reflection as if it would tell her. Something rustled in the thorns of the island, and she snapped up her head, heart thundering as she scanned for that familiar male face and wings. But there was no sign of Cassian. And whatever was in that bramble ... She should find another island to head for. Nesta surveyed her reflection again. And found a pair of night-dark eyes looking back through it. <|title|>Chapter 34 <|startofchapter|>Nesta stumbled away so fast she landed on her backside, the mossy ground cushioning the impact. A face broke through the black water where her reflection had been. It was whiter than bone and humanoid. Male. Bit by bit, inch by inch, the head rose above the black water, obsidian hair drifting in the water around the creature, so silken it might as well have been the surface. His black eyes were enormous--no whites to be seen--his cheekbones so sharp they could have sliced the air. His nose was narrow and long, like a blade, and water dripped from its tip over a mouth ... a mouth ... It was too large, that mouth. Sensuous lips, but too wide. Then his arms slid from the water. In stiff, jolting movements they jerked onto the moss, white and thin, ending in fingers as long as her forearm. Fingers that dug into the grass, revealing four joints and dagger-sharp nails. They cracked and popped as he stretched and dug them into the grass, grappling for purchase. Nesta's breath sawed out of her, terror a roaring in her mind as she crawled backward. He heaved himself out of the water, revealing a bony torso, his black hair dragging behind him like a net. She lurched back again as he slowly lifted his head. That too-wide mouth parted. Twin rows of rotted teeth, jagged as shards of glass, filled his mouth as he smiled. Her bladder loosened, her lap becoming wet and warm. He scented it, saw it, and that mouth widened further, fingers twitching as they hauled more and more of him from the water. His narrow, bare hips He pushed himself onto his arms as he slid a long, white leg from the blackness. Another. And then he knelt on all fours, smiling at her. She couldn't move. Couldn't do anything but stare into that white face, the black eyes as dark as the bog, the twitching, too-long fingers and that mouth, those eel's teeth-- He spoke then, and it was not a language she recognized. His voice rasped, deep and hoarse, full of terrible hunger and cruel amusement. The gentle female voice in her head pleaded, Run, run, run. His head cocked, sodden black hair sloshing with the movement, full of what seemed to be bog weeds. As if he'd heard that female voice, too. He spoke again, and it was like rock grating on rock--his tone more demanding. Kelpie. This was a kelpie, and he would kill her. Run, the voice shouted. Run! Nesta's legs had become distant, numb. She couldn't remember how to use them. The kelpie's head twitched, fingers convulsing in the grass. His smile grew again. So wide she spied the long, black tongue writhing in his mouth, as if he could already taste her flesh. Nesta couldn't recall how to scream as he lunged for her. Couldn't do anything at all as those long fingers wrapped around her legs, claws ripping through her skin, and yanked her toward him. Pain ripped Nesta from her stupor, and she fought, fingers grabbing at the grass. It came free in clumps, as if it had no roots at all. As if the bog would do nothing to help her. The kelpie towed her along as he slithered back into the frigid water. And dragged her under the surface. E: The two soldiers were on their knees. Their light leather armor bore Eris's insignia of two baying hounds on the breast. It didn't confirm anything. They might have been ordered here by Eris, or Beron, or both of them. Until Azriel or Rhys could get answers out of them, Cassian wouldn't waste time theorizing. Not that the soldiers offered any explanations. Their faces were vacant. Not a trace of fear in them, or in their scents. Azriel panted, wing bleeding freely from where he'd ripped away the ash arrow. Cassian, covered in blood that was not his own, assessed the two surviving soldiers, their fallen companions around them. Many in pieces. "Bind them," Cassian said to Azriel, who had already healed enough to summon his Siphons' power. Blue light speared from his brother, wrapping around the two males' wrists, their ankles, their mouths--and then chained them together. Cassian had dealt with enough assassins and prisoners to know keeping two prisoners alive would allow him to confirm information, to play them off each other. The soldiers had fought viciously with sword and flame, yet they hadn't spoken to their opponents or to one another. These two seemed as unfocused and blank as their comrades. "Something is wrong with them," Azriel murmured as the two soldiers simply stared up at them with violence in their eyes. Violence, but no recognition or awareness that they were now at the mercy of the Night Court, and would soon learn how that court got answers out of their enemies. Cassian sniffed. "They smell like they haven't had a bath in weeks." Az sniffed as well, grimacing. "Do you think these are Eris's missing soldiers? He said they'd been acting strange before they vanished. I'd certainly consider this strange behavior." "I don't know." Cassian wiped the blood from his face with the back of his hand. "I suppose we'll find out soon enough." He surveyed his brother from head to toe. "You all right?" "Fine." But Az's voice was tight enough to indicate that his wing hurt like hell. "We need to get out of here. There might be more." Cassian stiffened. He'd left Nesta in a tree. A high tree, granted, but-- He launched skyward, not waiting to see if Az could follow before he was flapping toward that sprawl of land. Better than an island, he'd decided. On an island she'd have been trapped. But the swath of grass he'd left her in had looked as if it had once been a meadow, and the tree was so tall it would have taken a giant to reach. Or something else with wings. The air parted, and Azriel appeared at his heels, unsteady and bobbing, but flying. Darkness rose behind them, confirmation that Az wielded his shadows to hide their captives. Cassian tracked Nesta by scent back to that tree, the mist lightening only as its uppermost branches appeared. But Nesta wasn't in it. He hovered in place as he scanned the tree, the ground. "Nesta!" She wasn't in the grass, or in the next tree. He dropped to the earth, tracking her scent all around the area, but it went no farther. Went right up to the water and vanished. Azriel landed, whirling in place. "I don't see her." The water remained still as black glass. Not a ripple. The island fifteen feet across the water--had she gone that way? Cassian couldn't breathe right, couldn't think right-- "NESTA!" Oorid devoured his roar before it could echo across the black water. <|title|>Chapter 35 <|startofchapter|>There was no light, nothing but frigid water and clawed hands hauling her through it. She had been here before. It was just like the Cauldron, being hurled into the icy dark-- This was how she would die, and there was nothing to do about it, no one to save her. She'd taken her last breath and hadn't even made it a good one, so focused on her terror she had forgotten that she had weapons, and she had magic-- Weapons. Blind in the darkness, Nesta grabbed the dagger at her side. She'd fought back against the Cauldron. She'd do so now. Her bones groaned where the kelpie clutched her, its grip informing her where to strike. Working against the rush of the water as it sped along, Nesta sliced her dagger down, praying she didn't cut off her own leg. Bone reverberated against the blade. The grip on her leg splayed, and she shoved the tip of her dagger in farther as the arm ripped away. She flailed in spinning darkness. Up and down blurred and warped, and she was drowning-- Spindly hands slammed into her chest, one wrapping around her throat as her back hit something soft and silty. The bottom. No, she wouldn't end like this, helpless as she'd been that day against the Cauldron-- Lips and teeth collided with her mouth, and she screamed as the kelpie kissed her. His black tongue shoved into her mouth, tasting of foul meat. For a heartbeat, she wasn't beneath the water, but against a woodpile in the human lands, Tomas's hard mouth crushing into hers, his hands pawing at her-- Nesta struggled to pull her head away, to free her mouth, but air filled her lungs. As if the kelpie had breathed it into her. As if he wanted her alive a little longer, to prolong her pain. The kelpie withdrew, and Nesta had enough sense to shut her aching, brutalized mouth, to trap in that breath he had given her. To not question how such a thing was even possible. The kelpie's hands ripped at her body, tearing away every weapon with unerring aim, as if he did not need to see in this darkness, as if those large black eyes could pick up any trickle of light like some deep-sea creature. Her entire body went stiff and unmoving, each brutal touch entitled and furious and delighting in her fear. When he had disarmed her, her lungs were burning again, and she felt that thin male body pushing her into the bottom once more as he shoved his mouth to hers. She gagged, but opened for him, letting him fill her mouth with another life-giving breath that had nothing to do with kindness. His tongue wriggled like a worm against hers, and his spindly, too-large hands ran down her breasts, her waist, and when she gagged again, fighting against her sob, his laugh puffed through her lips. He pulled away, rows of teeth ripping at her mouth as he did, and she shook when he lingered, stroking at her hair. His little prize--that was what the touch said. How he would make her suffer and beg before the end. She had escaped the monsters of the human realm only to find the same ones above the wall. Had escaped from Tomas only to wind up here, raging as she had then. That pleading female voice had faded. As if whatever she was, whoever she was, she knew no hope existed now. Nesta fumbled internally for her power while the kelpie began to swim again, a hand around her wrist, lugging her behind him. Her legs bumped into metallic objects and bones, somehow preserved within the bog. Some of the bones still felt fleshy. Please, she begged that power within her, slumbering and ancient and terrible. Please. Nesta cast for it, seeking it in the chasm inside herself. She could see it glowing ahead, golden and shining. Her fingers strained for it. The kelpie swam faster through the darkness, wending between the objects in the water as if they were the roots of a tree. The golden thing drew nearer, and it was a round disk, her power, growing closer and closer and closer. As Nesta was dragged along, that golden disk rushed toward her splayed fingers. The kelpie didn't seem to see it; he didn't veer away as it shot toward her outstretched hand. It was not her power that shone ahead. The golden disk connected with her fingers, and Nesta knew what it was as She gripped it tight. Like called to like. Power to power. The kelpie pulled her along, unaware. Nesta's breath again became short. Her feet and legs sliced into dagger-sharp objects, ripping open on a few. Power lay in her hand. Death gripped her by the other. She knew what she had to do with the sort of clarity only pure desperation and terror could bring. Knew what she had to risk. Her fingers tightened on the thing in her hand. The kelpie slowed, as if sensing her shift. But not fast enough. He couldn't stop her from slamming the Mask onto her face. <|title|>Chapter 36 <|startofchapter|>Her lungs stopped hurting. Her body stopped aching. She did not require air. She did not feel pain. She could see dimly through the eyeholes of the Mask. The kelpie was a lean white thing--a creature of pure hate and hunger. He dropped her, as if in shock and fear. As if he hesitated when he beheld what she now wore. It was all Nesta needed. She could feel them around her. The dead. Feel their long-rotted bodies, some mere bones and others preserved, half-eaten beneath their ancient armor. Their weapons lay nearby, discarded and ignored by the creatures of the bog, who had been more interested in feeding on decaying flesh, even long-rotted. Thousands and thousands of bodies. But she would not call thousands. Not yet. Her blood was a cold song, the Mask a slithering echo to it, whispering of all she might do. Home, it seemed to sigh. Home. Nesta did not refuse it. Only embraced it, letting its magic--colder than her own and as old--flow into her veins. The kelpie mastered himself, and bared his twin sets of teeth before he sprang. A skeletal hand wrapped around his ankle. The kelpie whirled, peering downward. Just as another bony hand, covered in a gauntlet cracked with age, wrapped around the other ankle. A hand with flesh falling from its fingers gripped his mane of black hair. The kelpie twisted toward her again, black eyes wide. Drifting in the water, the power of the Mask an icy song through her, Nesta summoned the dead. To do what her own body could not. Though she had fought back against Tomas, against the Cauldron, against the King of Hybern, they had all happened to her. She had survived, but she had been helpless and afraid. Not today. Today, she would happen to him. The kelpie thrashed, freeing himself from one skeletal hand as ten others, at the ends of long, bony arms, extended. Their bodies rose with them. He tried to swim out of their grip, but a towering skeleton half-clad in rusted armor appeared behind him. Wrapped its arms around him. A face that was only bone peered over the kelpie's shoulder, jaws opening to reveal pointed teeth--not High Fae, then--that gleamed before they buried themselves in the kelpie's white flesh. He screamed, but it was soundless. Just as the dead were soundless, surging from the murky bottom, some in marching formation, and converging on him. Nesta let the power flow through her, allowing the Mask to do as it wished, raising the honored dead who had once been buried here and had suffered the sacrilege of serving as an endless meal to the kelpie and his ilk. The kelpie bucked against the dead, his eyes pleading now. But Nesta looked upon him without an ounce of mercy, still tasting his foulness in her mouth. She knew he could see her teeth gleaming. Knew the kelpie could see her cold smile as she bade the dead to rip him to shreds. "NESTA!" Up to his waist in the black water, so inky he couldn't see his own hips beneath it, Cassian roared her name as Az soared overhead, scanning, scanning-- He'd caught her scent at the water's edge--her scent and urine, gods damn him to hell. She'd seen something, been attacked by something so awful she'd wet herself, and now she was gone, under this water-- "NESTA!" He didn't know where to start in this blackness. If he continued to make much more noise, other things would come looking, but he had to find her, or else he'd crumple up and die, he'd-- "NESTA!" Azriel landed in the water beside him. "I don't see anything," he panted, eyes as frantic as Cassian knew his own were. "We need Rhys--" "He's not answering." As if the bog swallowed their messages the same way it swallowed sound. Cassian waded up to his chest, hands blindly grappling for any sort of clue, a body-- He bellowed at the thought, and even Oorid couldn't muffle the sound. He hurled himself forward, and only Azriel's hand at the collar of his armor halted him. Az snarled, "Look." Cassian gazed where Azriel pointed at the deeper water. The surface was rippling. Golden light shone beneath. Cassian splashed toward it, but Az halted him again, his Siphons flaring blue. Then the spears broke the surface. Like a forest rising from the water, spear after spear after spear appeared. Then the helmets, dripping water, some rusted, some shining as if freshly forged. And beneath those helmets: skulls. "Mother save us," Azriel whispered, and it was undiluted terror, not awe, hushing his voice as the dead rose from Oorid's depths. A line of them; a legion. Some mere collections of upright bones, jaws hanging and eyes unseeing. Some half-preserved, decaying flesh flapping over exposed ribs. Judging by their fine armor, they were warriors and kings and princes and lords. They rose from the water, standing in the shallows near the thorny island. And as that golden light broke the surface before them, the dead knelt. Every word emptied from Cassian's head as Nesta, too, emerged from the water, as if lifted on a pillar from beneath. A golden mask sat upon her face, primitive but embossed with whorls and patterns so ancient they'd lost all meaning. Water sluiced down her clothes, her hair had been ripped from its braid, and in her hand, clenched there ... A kelpie's head dangled by its sheet of black hair, torn-up face frozen in a scream. Exactly as the King of Hybern's head had hung from her hand. Only silver fire burned behind the eyes of the Mask. "Holy gods," Azriel breathed.The dead stood motionless, a legion poised to strike. Her will was their will; her command their only reason for being. They had no self left--only her, only Nesta, flowing through them. "Nesta," Cassian whispered. Nesta released the kelpie's head. The black water at her feet swallowed it whole. Cold power rippled toward them, and as it hit, Cassian let it surge past him, around him, yielded himself to it. Because to stand against it would be to provoke the Mask's wrath. To stand against it would be to stand against Death itself. Death herself. Azriel shook, weathering that primal power. But they were both Illyrian, whether Az liked it or not. And so they did what their people had always done before Death's beautiful face. They bowed. Chest-deep in the water, they couldn't bow far, but they lowered their heads until their faces nearly touched the surface. Cassian lifted his eyes as he held the position, and watched the gold of the Mask's reflection dance upon the water. Then that gold shifted. He raised his head in time to see Nesta peel away the Mask. The dead collapsed. Fell under the black surface in splashes and ripples and vanished entirely. Not one spear remained. Nesta sank as if dropped, too. Cassian lunged for her, icy water biting at his face. He grabbed her just as she went under. She was nearly boneless as he hauled her back to Az, who had his sword out against anything that might come crawling from that water. When they reached the shore and the grass and the tree, Cassian surveyed her pale face, ripped and scratched around her mouth and jaw-- Nesta blinked, and her eyes were again blue-gray, and then she was clutching the Mask to her chest like a child with a doll and shaking, shaking, shaking. It was all Cassian could do to put his arms around her and hold her close, until the trembling stopped and unconsciousness offered her the mercy of oblivion. <|title|>Chapter 37 <|startofchapter|>There was a place in the Court of Nightmares where even Keir and his elite squadron of Darkbringers did not dare tread. Once the Night Court's enemies entered that place, they did not come out. Not alive, anyway. Most of what remained of their bodies didn't leave, either. Those went through the hatch in the center of the circular room--and into the pit of writhing beasts below. To their scales and claws and merciless hunger. The beasts did not feed often; they could receive a body every ten years and make it last, going into hibernation between meals. The trickling blood of the two Autumn Court males through the black stone floor's grate woke them. Their snarls and hisses, their snapping tails and scraping claws should have incentivized the males chained to the chairs to talk. Azriel leaned against the wall by the lone door, Truth-Teller bloody in his hand. Cassian, a step beside him, and Feyre, on Az's other side, watched as Rhys and Amren approached the two males. "Are you feeling more inclined to explain yourselves?" Rhys said, hands sliding into his pockets. Only the knowledge that Nesta slept safely in a bedroom in Rhys's palace above this mountain, warded by his High Lord's power, allowed Cassian to remain in this room. The Mask, covered with a black velvet cloth, lay on a table in another room of the palace, equally warded and bespelled. Azriel had winnowed them away from the bog moments after Nesta had passed out, and had brought them to Rhys's residence atop the Hewn City. Cassian knew, when Rhys had vanished a heartbeat later, that he'd gone to the bog for the Autumn Court soldiers, and would bring them here. Nesta had been unconscious ever since. The two males were similar-looking, in the way that people from individual courts tended to share characteristics: the Autumn Court skewed toward hair of varying shades of red, brown or gold eyes--sometimes green, and mostly pale skin. The male on the left had auburn hair that was browner; the hair of the one on the right shone like bright copper. Both remained vacant-faced. "They must be under some sort of an enchantment," Amren observed, circling the males. "Their only drive seems to be to harm without reason, without context." "Why did you attack members of my court in the Bog of Oorid?" Rhys asked with that same mild calm that so many had heard right before being ripped to bloody ribbons. Rhys had agreed that the soldiers who attacked were likely the Autumn Court soldiers who had gone missing, but how they had ended up in the Bog of Oorid ... Well, that was what they intended to uncover. Rhys had tried to get into their heads, but found nothing but fog and mist. The males only stared toward Cassian, toward Azriel, and bristled with violence. Feyre observed from the wall, "They're like rabid dogs, lost to sanity." "They fought like them, too," Cassian said. "No intelligence--just a desire to kill." Rhys extended a hand toward the one with the brownish hair, the male bleeding from places Azriel knew would hurt but not kill. Az knew where to slice up a male without letting him bleed out. Knew how to make this last for days. "If they're under a spell from Briallyn or Koschei," Feyre asked, "then is it right to harm them like this?" The question echoed through the chamber, over the snarling of the hungry beasts. Rhys said after a moment, "No. It isn't." Amren said to Feyre, "The fog around their minds and the fact that they endured Azriel's ministrations without showing an understanding of anything beyond basic pain at least confirms our suspicions." "If that's how you wish to justify it," Feyre said a tad coldly, "then fine." All of them, Feyre included, had been tortured at one point or another. Feyre turned to Rhys. "We need to ask Helion to visit. Not for the--you know," she said, glancing to the two soldiers, who might very well still be aware of everything, even trapped within their heads, "but to break the spell upon them." "Yes," Rhys said, eyes shining with something like guilt and shame. Some silent conversation passed between him and his mate, and Cassian knew Rhys was asking about the torture--apologizing for making Feyre witness even the ten minutes Azriel had worked. But Feyre, Cassian knew, had been aware of what she'd see before entering. And well aware that these ten minutes had only been the opening movements in a symphony of pain that Azriel could conduct with brutal efficiency. Feyre's face softened after a moment, and she offered Rhys a slight smile that made his eyes brighten. Rhys declared, "They stay here, under guard. I'll contact Helion immediately." Cassian asked, "And Eris? When do we tell him we found his soldiers? Or what we did to most of them?" "You acted in self-defense," Feyre said, arms crossing. "As far as I'm concerned, whoever was controlling the soldiers is to blame for their deaths, not you." Amren added, "We'll tell Eris once we verify everything. There's still a possibility that he's somehow behind this." Feyre nodded her approval, but her mouth tightened. "These two males have families who are surely worried about them. We should be as quick as possible." Cassian shut out the thought of all the males whom he hadn't left standing--who all had worried families as well. Every death had a weight, sent a ripple into the world, into time. It was too easy to forget that. He glanced to Az, but his brother's face was stone-cold. If Az regretted what they'd done, he revealed no hint of it. Cassian tucked in his wings. "We'll be as fast as we can." They left the males in the room, blood still trickling down to the writhing beasts. Up they walked, out of the dungeons of the Hewn City, out of the wretched place itself, until they stood amongst the moonstone pillars of the beautiful palace above it. Rhys aimed for the room with the Mask. He opened the door and went stiff. Nesta sat at the table, staring at the cloth-covered Mask. "How did you get in here?" Rhys asked, night swirling at his fingertips. Cassian knew his brother had made the wards on the door impenetrable. Or they should have been. "The door was open," Nesta said numbly, and scanned their faces as if looking for someone. Cassian stepped into the room, and her eyes settled on him. He offered her a grim smile. "The Mask opened the door for you?" Amren demanded. "I found myself beckoned here," Nesta said, even as she looked Cassian over. Checking for injuries, he realized. She was looking to see if he was harmed. As if he were the one with a brutalized mouth, neck marked by claws, calves and shins lacerated. Her wounds had stopped bleeding, already scabbing, but--Cauldron damn him, he couldn't stand the sight of one bruise on her. "Does it speak to you?" Feyre asked, angling her head. Cassian had told them everything--as far as he'd been able to gather. Nesta had been attacked by a kelpie, dragged under the water, and had somehow found the Mask. Summoned the dead of Oorid to her to slay the kelpie. And emerged triumphant. "Only a desperate fool would don that Mask," Amren said, keeping well away from the table. Whether it was to put distance between herself and Nesta or to avoid the Mask, he had no idea. "You're lucky to have been able to pry it from your face. Most of those who have worn it could never remove it. In order to sever it, they had to be beheaded. It's the cost of the power: you can raise an army of the dead to conquer the world, but you can never be free of the Mask." "I wished it to let go, and it did," Nesta said, surveying Amren with cool disdain. "Like calls to like," Rhys said. "Others could not free themselves because the Mask did not recognize their power. The Mask rode them, not the other way around. Only one Made from the same dark source can wear the Mask and not be ruled by it." "So Queen Briallyn could use it," Azriel said. "Perhaps that's why the Autumn Court soldiers were in Oorid: she can't yet risk setting foot here, but she found a unit to go in for her." The words rippled through the room. Nesta again stared at the Mask. "It should be destroyed." "That's not possible," Amren said. "Perhaps if the Cauldron had been truly destroyed, the Mask might have been weakened enough for the High Lords and Feyre to join their power and do it." "If the Cauldron had been destroyed," Feyre said with a shiver, "then life would have ceased to exist." "So the Mask remains," Amren said wryly. "It can only be dealt with. Not eliminated." "We should dump it in the sea, then," Nesta said. "No taste for the living dead, girl?" Amren asked. Nesta slid her eyes toward Amren in a way that had Cassian bracing for the worst. "No good can come of its power." "If we dump it in the sea," Azriel said, "some wicked creature might find it. It's safer to keep it locked up with us." "Even if it can open doors and undo spells?" Rhys asked. "Like calls to like," Feyre said into the puzzled quiet. "Perhaps Nesta could ward it and lock the room. Contain it." "I don't know how to do those spells," Nesta said. "I failed at the most basic of them while training with Amren, remember?" Feyre's head tilted to one side. "Is that what you think, Nesta? That you failed?" Nesta straightened, and Cassian's chest tightened at the wall that rose in her eyes, brick by brick. At the truth Nesta had let slip with that one word. "It doesn't matter," she said, her old self rearing its head as her chin lifted. "Tell me how to do the spells, and I'll try." She directed the last part to Amren, to Rhys. "When Helion comes," Rhys said gently, as if he, too, understood what Nesta had revealed, "I'll have him show you. He knows spells for warding that even I don't." The silence became tense enough that Cassian made himself grin. "Considering that Nesta brushed off Helion's smoldering advances during the war, he might not be so inclined to help her." "He'll help," Rhys said, stars shimmering in his gaze. "If only for another shot at her." Nesta rolled her eyes, and the gesture was so normal that Cassian's smile became more genuine, edged now with relief. You wear your heart for all to see, brother, Rhys said without turning Cassian's way. Cassian only shrugged. He was past caring. Feyre said to Nesta, "We should get Madja to tend to your wounds." "They're already healing," Nesta said, and Cassian wondered if she had any idea how awful she looked. Indeed, Amren said, "You look like a cat tried to eat your face off." She sniffed. "And you smell like a swamp." "Being dragged through a bog will do that to you," Cassian said to Amren, earning a surprised look from Nesta. He asked her, "How did the kelpie snare you?" Nesta's scratched-up throat bobbed. "I grew ... nervous when you-- both of you--didn't come back." The silence in the room was palpable. "I went to find you." Cassian didn't dare say that he'd only been gone thirty minutes. Thirty minutes, and she'd been in a panic like that? "We wouldn't have left you," he said carefully. "I wasn't afraid of being left. I was afraid both of you were dead." That she kept emphasizing both of you tightened his chest. He knew what she was carefully avoiding saying. She'd been worried enough that she'd ventured into Oorid's perils for him. Nesta turned from his stare. "I was about to go into the water when the kelpie appeared. It crawled onto the bank, spoke to me, and then dragged me in." "It spoke to you?" Rhys asked. "Not in a language I knew." Rhys's mouth quirked to the side. "Can you show me?" Nesta frowned, as if unwilling to relive the memory, but nodded. Both of their gazes went vacant, and then Rhys pulled back. "That thing ..." He surveyed Nesta with blatant shock that she had survived. Rhys turned to Amren. "Have a listen." Their eyes became glazed, and none of them spoke as Rhys showed Amren. Even Amren's face paled at whatever Rhys showed her, and then she was shaking her head, her black bob of hair swaying. "That is a dialect of our tongue that has not been spoken in fifteen thousand years." "I could only pick up every other word," Rhys said. Feyre arched a brow. "You speak the language of the ancient Fae?" Rhys shrugged. "My education was thorough." He waved an idle, graceful hand. "For exactly these situations." Azriel asked, "What'd the kelpie say?" Amren shot an alarmed glance at Nesta, then answered, "He said: Are you my sacrifice, sweet flesh? How pale and young you are. Tell me, are they resuming the sacrifices to the waters once more? And when she didn't respond, the kelpie said, No gods can save you. I shall take you, little beauty, and you shall be my bride before you are my supper." Nesta's hand drifted to the marks on her face, then recoiled. Horror slid through Cassian--then molten rage. "People used to sacrifice to kelpies?" Feyre asked, nose crinkling with disgust and dread. "Yes," Amren said, scowling. "The most ancient Fae and humans believed kelpies to be river and lake gods, though I always wondered if the sacrifices started as a way to prevent the kelpies from hunting them. Keep them fed and happy, control the deaths, and they wouldn't crawl out of the water to snatch the children." Her teeth flashed. "For this one to still be speaking that ancient dialect ... He must have retreated to Oorid a long time ago." "Or been raised by parents who spoke that dialect," Azriel countered. "No," Amren said. "The kelpies do not breed. They rape and torment, but they do not reproduce. They were made, legend says, by the hand of a cruel god--and deposited throughout the waters of this land. The kelpie you slew, girl, was perhaps one of the last." Nesta gazed at the Mask again. Rhys said, "It flew to you. The Mask." He must have seen it in her head. "I was trying to reach for my power," Nesta murmured, and they all stilled--she'd never spoken of her power so explicitly. "This answered instead." "Like calls to like," Feyre repeated. "Your power and the Mask's are similar enough that to reach for one was to reach for the other." "So you admit your powers remain, then," Amren said drily. Nesta met her stare. "You already knew that." Cassian stepped in before things went south. "All right. Let Lady Death get some rest." "That's not funny," Nesta hissed. Cassian winked, even as the others tensed. "I think it's catchy." Nesta glowered, but it was a human expression, and he'd take that any day over that silver fire. Over the being who had walked on water and commanded a legion of the dead. He wondered if Nesta would agree. Nesta stayed at the moonstone palace atop the Hewn City. Feyre had suggested that the bright openness would be better than the dim, red halls of the House of Wind. At least for tonight. Nesta had been too tired to disagree, to explain that the House was her friend, and would have pampered and fussed like an old nursemaid. She barely noted the opulent bedroom--overhanging the side of the mountain, snowcapped peaks gleaming in the sunshine all around, a bed piled with glowingly white linens and pillows, and ... Well, she did notice the sunken bathing pool, open to the air beyond, water spilling over the lip that projected above the drop and trickling into the endless fall below. Ribbons of steam snaked along its surface, inviting and scented with lavender, and she had enough presence of mind to strip off her clothes and climb in before sullying the sheets again. They'd already been changed since she'd slept earlier--she knew because she'd left a great, muddy imprint on the bed when she'd arisen, and now it was pristine. Nesta eased into the bath, grimacing as the water stung her wounds. Beyond the peaks, the sun shifted from white gold to yellow, sinking toward the earth's embrace. Fat, fluffy clouds drifted by, filled with peach-colored light, lovely against the purpling sky. Her fingers rose to her hair, and as she dragged her hands through the tangled, still-sodden mess, she watched the sky transform itself into the most beautiful sunset she'd ever beheld. Bits of bog weed and mud cracked out of her hair, whisked away by the water over the edge of the pool. Sighing, Nesta slid under, her face stinging, and scrubbed at her scalp. She emerged, her hair still thick and gritty, and scanned the wall next to the pool--there. Vials of what had to be concoctions for washing one's body and hair. She poured a dollop into her hands, her nose filling with the scent of mint and rosemary, and scrubbed it through her hair. She let the heady scent pull the tension from her as much as it could, and lathered her heavy locks. Another dunk under the water had her rinsing out the bubbles. When she emerged, she reached for the bar of soap that smelled of sweet almonds. Nesta washed every part of herself twice. And only when she finished did she let herself take in the view again. The sunset was at its peak, the sky ablaze with pink and blue and gold and purple, and she willed it to fill her, to clear away any lingering trace of Oorid's darkness. She had never experienced anything like the Mask's power. The kelpie, at least, had felt real--her terror and anger and desperation had all been human, ordinary feelings. As soon as she'd donned the Mask, those feelings had vanished. She had become more, had become something that did not need air to breathe, something that did not understand hate or love or fear or grief. It had scared her more than anything else. That utter lack of feeling. How good it had felt, to be so removed. Nesta swallowed. She hadn't confessed it to any of them. She'd been contemplating the Mask when they'd found her in its room, contemplating that void. Wondering whether anyone had ever donned the Mask not to raise the dead, but to simply stop being inside their own minds. She had been aware, yes. Had killed the kelpie because she wished it dead. But all the weight, the echoing thoughts, the hatred and guilt that sliced her like knives--they had vanished. And it had been so seductive, so freeing and lovely, that she'd known the Mask had to be destroyed. If only to save herself from it. But it could not be destroyed. And she was the sole person who might contain it. Never mind that, for the same reason, she'd be the sole person with access to it. Everyone else would be safe from its temptation and power-- except for her. The one who most needed to be barred from it. A knock sounded on her door, and Nesta dropped below the dark surface of the pool, letting her long hair cover her breasts, before she said, "Yes?" Cassian strode in, a tray of food in hand, and halted when he didn't see her on the bed. His eyes shot to the sunken pool, and she could have sworn he almost dropped the tray onto the white carpet. "I ... You." His loss of words was enough to pull her from her thoughts, to curve the corners of her mouth upward. "Me?" He shook his head like a wet dog. "I brought some food. I assumed you'd want dinner." "There's no dining room?" "There is, but I thought you might need to unwind." She surveyed him, surprised that he knew her well enough to guess that the thought of speaking to everyone again, of dressing in suitable clothes, was draining--miserable. Knew her well enough to grasp that she'd rather eat in her room and piece herself together. Cassian cleared his throat. "I'll put it over there." He jerked his chin to the desk next to the bathtub's far edge, where the water tumbled off the mountain. Nesta pivoted as he strode a shade stiffly to the desk and set down the tray. "Right." He cleared his throat again. "Enjoy your bath. And the meal." Seeing Cassian so flustered pushed away the shadows in her heart. Thoughts of the Mask became a distant rumble. "Do you want to get in?" He sucked in a breath, but something like pain washed over his features. "You're hurt." Nesta stood, water sluicing off her, her hair plastering to her breasts and doing nothing to hide her peaked nipples beneath. "Do I look injured to you?" He nodded toward the scabbed cuts all over her body, her face. "Yes?" She snorted. "It looks worse than it feels by now." Cassian didn't reply, his chest rising and falling in a sharp rhythm. With each uneven lift, she began to throb between her legs, as if her body answered his own. Yes, her body seemed to say. This--him. Life to drive away the Mask; life to drive away the horror of Oorid. The need to touch him, feel his warmth and strength, pounded through her. If he wouldn't climb into the bath, then she'd have to go to him. Nesta waded toward the steps of the sunken tub, and Cassian went rigid. He whispered, "I thought you were dead today." Nesta reached the stairs. "So did I." She stepped upward, exposing her midriff. "I thought you were dead, too." "You must have been happy." She smiled, watching his gaze drop with every piece of her revealed. Another step upward had her sex bared to him. "It did not make me happy." She reached the floor of the room. Through what Nesta knew was five hundred years of will, Cassian lifted his focus to her face as she walked to him, water dripping off her body. "You want to do this?" he breathed. "Yes." She stopped a foot away, her wet hair draped along her torso, and stared up into his face. His eyes burned like hazel stars. Nesta gave him a smile that was pure Fae. "Just sex." The words seemed to spark something, because Cassian blinked. "Right. Just sex." He didn't say it as lightly as she did. And still didn't reach for her. So she said, "There can be nothing more than sex, Cassian." His jaw tightened, and he seemed to struggle with some internal battle before he said darkly, "Then I'll take whatever you offer me." He leaned in, his body still not touching hers, and said against her ear, "And I'll take you however you wish me to." Her toes curled on the stones, her hair dripping. "And if I wish to take you?" He smiled against her ear. "Then I'll beg you to ride me into oblivion." She went molten, and from the way his wings tucked in, she knew he could scent the wetness building between her thighs. Cassian gently pulled her wet hair from her breasts. Her breathing came in sharp pants as he traced the tip of a finger around her nipple. Then did it again. Words eluded her. She couldn't remember any of them, couldn't remember anything except that one finger, circling her nipple, her entire body throbbing with need. Cassian flicked her nipple, a hard, sharp bite that made her whimper. Desperate for more of him, for all of him, Nesta said, "Do what you want." He circled her nipple again, a predator playing with its dinner. "That doesn't sound very exciting, do what you want." He clamped her nipple between his thumb and forefinger, the demand in it enough that she looked up at his face. He was the portrait of male arrogance, a warrior poised to conquer, and she nearly climaxed at the sight of it. His eyes darkened. "The way you sometimes look at me makes me think such filthy things, Nesta." "Do them. Do all of them." He pinched her nipple just short of drawing pain, and she arched into the touch, a silent plea for more, for him to unleash himself. "We don't have time in one night for all the things I want to do to you, with you. Every place I want to touch and fill you." She rubbed her thighs together, desperate for any friction. "Then do your best." Cassian laughed darkly, but his other hand came up to her untouched breast, circling as well. She watched his light brown fingers play against her pale skin, watched him touch her like he wanted to map every inch of her body and had all the time in the world to do it. Below his waist, she could just make out his hardness. "Do you want to suck me again?" he whispered against her ear. "Do you want me down your throat again?" Nesta let out a confirming whimper. "Did you still taste me days later?" She couldn't answer, couldn't reveal the truth. His fingers clamped on her nipples, drawing just enough pain that she went wholly wet. "Did you?" "Yes. I tasted you for days." The words tumbled out, and with them, clarity and hunger sharpened her focus. Ripped her from that needy daze. "I've thought about your cock in my mouth every night since, while I had my hand between my legs." He growled, and she skimmed a hand against his hardness, squeezing. She lifted her head and met his darkened stare, baring her teeth. "I thought about your head between my legs, too," she said, heart thundering, "and how your tongue slid into me." She squeezed him again. Cassian groaned, and his thumbs caressed her too-sensitive nipples. Nesta put her other hand on his chest, backing him toward the bed, and he went willingly, letting her set the pace, the location. "I promised that you could fuck me wherever you wanted in the House," she said, her voice a deep, rolling purr that she barely recognized. The backs of his thighs hit the bed, and he halted her, one hand dropping to her waist to steady them. "But this isn't the House." His breathing rasped around them as she smiled up at his drawn, taut features. "So I think that means we'll fuck wherever I want." Cassian grinned, and the hand at her waist swept down to cup her bare ass. He squeezed one cheek. "As long as I still get to fuck you in the House." She met his savage grin. "Good." His hand drifted further south, between her legs, feeling her from behind. His fingers brushed against the wetness pooled there, and he swore, drawing his hand back, holding it between them. Her wetness gleamed on his two fingers, and his eyes glittered with predatory intent as he lifted them to his mouth and licked them, one by one. Her body ached, clamping around emptiness, desperate for something to fill it. For him to fill it. She stroked her fingers down the length of his cock, still trapped within his pants. And as she made a second pass, he slanted his mouth over hers. It was a grazing, taunting kiss. She bit his lower lip. And then he was grabbing her to him, crushing their bodies together, both hands now gripping her ass as he pressed her against his length. Their open mouths clashed and met, and she tasted herself on his tongue, her fingers grappling in his silken hair, dragging against his scalp. Cassian twisted, flipping them, and then she was lying flat against the mattress as he stood before her. He tore his mouth away as he propped her legs on the bed, folding them at the knees. As he tugged her to the mattress's edge, so that her sex was on display for him. He knelt, wings rising above him, and dragged his tongue clean up her center. Nesta moaned at the same moment he did, and he let her writhe, as if he knew it'd torment her more to undulate, but to have nothing to fill her, not until he wished it. He gave her another savoring lick, lingering at the apex of her thighs, sucking the bundle of nerves into his mouth, nipping with his teeth, before he began again. Again. Again. He was devouring her, melting her body like a piece of chocolate on his tongue. She couldn't endure it, and she clasped her own breast, desperate for more touch, more sensation. He looked up from between her legs and marked her hand kneading her breast. Marked it and smiled, his teeth flashing white against the flushed gleam of her. "Do you like seeing me kneel before you?" he asked, the words rumbling into her very core. He dipped his tongue into her. "You taste like you do." Nesta arched, thrusting herself further onto his tongue, but Cassian only laughed against her and denied her what she wished. He gave her another slow, slow lick from base to top, and as he reached that bundle of nerves, he slid two fingers into her. Two, not one, because he seemed to know she was already waiting for him, that she wanted him unbound and rough and wild. She bowed off the bed, and he thrust his fingers in again, his breathing uneven as he said, "How do you want it?" He pumped his hand into her again, wringing out her reply. "Hard," she gasped. "Thank the Mother," he swore, and she heard metal clicking and leather whispering, and then his tongue caressed her again, past that bundle of nerves, up her stomach, to her breasts, until he was over her. Cassian moved her further onto the bed. She didn't care that her legs fell open for him, only cared that he was now naked, and all that rippling muscle and golden skin gleamed above her. He lowered himself to the cradle of her thighs, and his eyes were so wide she could see the whites around them. He opened his mouth, but she didn't want to hear the words, didn't want to know whatever he'd been about to say. She framed his face in her hands and kissed him savagely, her tongue scraping over his teeth as she ground their mouths together. The broad tip of his cock nudged at her entrance, slipping in the slickness there, and he reached down to guide himself in. At Cassian's first prod into her body, fire erupted within her. She panted into his mouth, nipping at his bottom lip as he eased himself in. Just an inch. He halted. He was large enough that the stretching was edged in sweetest pain--large enough that she wondered if she'd be able to fit all of him. He trembled, holding himself barely inside her, as if he were now wondering the same. His hesitation, his care, melted some ice-cold shard within her. And made her snap free of any restraint. Nesta gripped his ass, muscles flexing beneath her fingertips, and hauled him into her. Only another inch. Only another inch, because Cassian braced his arms against the bed, hips pulling against her hold. "I'll hurt you." "I don't care." She ran her tongue over his jaw. "I do," he ground out, body straining as she attempted to pull him into her. "Nesta." Her fingers dug in again, her very blood and bones crying out for more of him, but he refused to move. "Nesta. Look at me." Fighting the roaring of her body, she obeyed. Heat blazed in his eyes, and something more than that. "Look at me," Cassian breathed. Gods spare her, but she did. She couldn't take her gaze off him. Found herself free-falling into his darkened eyes, his beautiful face. His hips flexed, and he slid in another inch--then retreated nearly to her edge. Their breathing synced, and Nesta stilled beneath him, a feeling of utter calm, utter fullness spreading through her as his hips moved again, and he pushed back in, a little farther this time. Cassian held her gaze through each small thrust, each retreat. He stretched her, filling her inch by inch, and Nesta knew he'd been right to go slow for this first joining. Retreating and advancing, Cassian filled her. They said nothing, only shared breath, their eyes wide as they gazed at each other. He pulled outward again, the movement long enough this time that she knew he was nearly all the way in. He halted, his cock barely inside her, and studied her face. A conquering warrior-god. He had called her Lady Death, and he was her sword. Cassian leaned down to kiss her. And as his tongue slid into her mouth, he thrust home in a mighty, final push. Nesta moaned as he slammed to the hilt, and the full impact of him hit her, stretched her, and she couldn't breathe fast enough. Cassian withdrew again, and slammed back into her, propelling their bodies farther onto the bed. He groaned this time, and the sound was her undoing. She wrapped her legs around his back, careful of his wings, and lifted her hips to meet his. He sank even deeper, and she dug her nails into his shoulders. Gods--nothing had ever felt so good, so full, so burning with pleasure. Nothing had ever felt like this, nothing. Cassian set the pace, smooth and deep, and for a moment, it was all Nesta could do to match him stroke for stroke. For a moment, she looked between their bodies to where his cock plunged into her, so thick and long and gleaming with her that she tightened around him, her release already building. He felt her inner muscles squeeze him harder and growled, "Fuck, Nesta." And she liked seeing him undone enough that she did it again, clenching on him just as he seated himself fully. He arched into it, fingers digging into the bed. "Fuck," he repeated. It wasn't enough, though. Wasn't close to enough. She wanted Cassian roaring, wanted him so lost that he couldn't remember his own name. Nesta halted him with a hand on his chest. Just one hand, and he stopped, utterly at her command. If she wanted it to end here, it would. It softened her enough that she couldn't quite keep the tremor out of her voice as she said, "I want you deeper." Cassian panted, eyes wild, as she crawled out of his arms. As she turned onto her stomach and lifted her backside for him, offering herself. He made a low sound of need. She arched her hips higher, inviting him to take, to feast. His restraint shattered. He was on her in an instant, lifting her hips higher as he sheathed himself in a single thrust. Nesta screamed then, a sound of such pleasure she knew it echoed off the mountains, feeling him hit the deepest spot of her. Cassian pounded into her, a hand moving from her hip to her hair, tugging her head back, baring her throat. She gave herself over to it, to him, and the lack of control was heady, so pleasurable that she could barely stand it. He thrust harder, so deep with this angle that she might have been screaming again, might have been sobbing. His other hand drifted between her legs, his cock pounding into her, her hair gripped like reins in one hand, her pleasure in his other. She was utterly at his mercy, and he knew it--he was snarling with desire, slamming home so hard his balls slapped against her. The silken touch had her erupting. Her climax crashed upon her, out of her, her inner muscles clenching him tight. Cassian roared, the sound echoing through the room, and he became utterly wild as release found him and he spilled into her with such force that his seed ran down her thighs. And then his weight fell upon her back, and only an arm that he threw out to brace them kept them from collapsing. Reeling, Nesta could only breathe, breathe, breathe. Cassian lay buried in her, and it felt so good, so right, that she wanted him always this deep in her, his seed spilling down her legs, forever. "Oh, gods," he whispered against her spine, over the tattoo inked along it. "That was ..." "I know," she panted. "I know." It was as much as she'd confess. As much as she'd let herself admit. Too good. It had felt too good, and nothing and no one would ever compare to it. He said, voice shaking, "I've made a mess of you." She buried her face in the blanket. "I like it." Cassian went still, but he gently extracted himself from her in a long, long pull. He dragged his seed with him, and another rush of it tickled down her thighs, dripping on the blanket, as he pulled out fully. She didn't move. Couldn't move. Didn't want to move. She felt him kneeling behind her, staring at the ass she still held upward, the view it presented. "I shouldn't enjoy seeing that so much," he growled. Her breasts tightened. But she asked coyly, "Seeing what?" "You. Covered in me. That beautiful sex of yours." She blushed and lowered her body to the mattress. "No one has ever called it beautiful." "It is. It's the most beautiful I've ever seen." She smiled into the blanket. "Liar." "I'm beyond lies right now, Nesta." His voice was so rough she looked over a shoulder. Cassian still knelt, and his face ... It was utterly devastated, as if she'd taken him apart and left him in ruin. "What is it?" she asked, but he moved off the bed and reached for his fallen clothes. Nesta twisted, her legs and core drenched in his essence and hers, but he donned his pants, gathering up his shirt and jacket, and the weapons she hadn't realized he'd carried. When he lifted his head, he threw her a wicked smile. "Just sex, right?" It was a trap, somehow. She couldn't discern in what way, but the words were dangerous. She'd meant them, though. Or had wanted to, at least. So Nesta said, "Right." His eyes flickered, and he grinned again, aiming for the door. "Thanks for the ride, Nes." He winked, and was gone. She stared at the door, puzzling over his exit, so swift that his seed still leaked out of her. Was it punishment? Had he not enjoyed it? She had the proof of his enjoyment between her legs, but males could find their pleasure and still not deem it good. Was he trying to demonstrate what she'd done to all those males? Bedded them and then kicked them out? She'd said just sex, but had thought it might at least come with some ... cuddling. A few minutes to enjoy the feel of his body against hers before pride made her order him to leave. Nesta knelt in the bed, and stared at the door, the silence her only answer. <|title|>Chapter 38 <|startofchapter|>"You took him to your bed, didn't you?" Emerie's whispered question had Nesta whipping her head toward her, stomach muscles quivering as she held the upward positioning of her curl. Emerie, a mirror image to her left, simply smirked at the shock on Nesta's face. Gwyn, on Emerie's other side, was just wide-eyed. Nesta schooled her features into neutrality and uncurled to the ground, making sure to hold her abdominal muscles tight until her back was flat against the stone once more. "Why would you say that?" "Because you and Cassian have been exchanging sultry looks all morning." Nesta scowled at Emerie. "We have not." It was an effort not to look across the ring, to where Cassian was now walking the newest group of priestesses--two this time, Ilana and Lorelei-- through foot positioning and balance. Nesta had, in fact, caught him staring her way twice since the lesson had begun two hours ago, but she'd made a point not to engage in lingering eye contact. "You have," Gwyn whispered, low enough that Cassian's Fae hearing wouldn't pick up her words. Nesta rolled her eyes. "Well, if you won't talk about that," Emerie said with equal quiet, "then at least tell us what happened yesterday--why there was no lesson, and where you were in the afternoon." "I was asked to keep it secret," Nesta said. Her wounds had healed and vanished already, making it easy to do so. "It has something to do with the Trove," Gwyn said, those teal eyes noticing too much. Nesta didn't reply, and that was answer enough. Emerie knew the basics --as much as Gwyn had been told--and frowned. But she kept her voice whisper-soft. "So you really didn't sleep with him?" Nesta did another curl, torso rising to her knees. "I didn't say that." Emerie let out a hmmm. Nesta's cheeks flushed. Emerie and Gwyn swapped glances. And it was Gwyn who said, "Was it good?" Nesta did another curl, and Cassian barked from across the ring, "Emerie! Gwyn! If you can do those curls as well as you run your mouths, you'd be done by now." Emerie and Gwyn grinned fiendishly. "Sorry!" they shouted, and launched into motion. Nesta grew still as Cassian's gaze met hers. The space between them went taut, the sounds of the exercising priestesses fading into nothing, the sky an azure blur above, the wind a distant caress on her cheeks-- "You too, Archeron," he ordered, pointing to where Emerie and Gwyn now exercised, apparently doing their best not to laugh. "Do another fifteen." Nesta threw a scowl at all of them and began her curls again. That was why she'd been avoiding eye contact with him. Cassian's attention slid elsewhere, but with each curl upward, Nesta found herself reining in the urge to gaze his way. She lost count three times. Bastard. Between curls, Gwyn said, "You know, Nesta, if you're having trouble concentrating ..." "Oh, please," Nesta muttered. Gwyn let out a breathy laugh. "I mean it. I learned about a new Valkyrie technique last night. It's called Mind-Stilling." Nesta managed to ask, body screeching with the effort of the curls, "What is it?" "They used it to steady their minds and emotions. Some of them did it three or four times a day. But it's basically the act of sitting and letting your mind go quiet. It might help with your ... concentration." Emerie snickered, but Nesta paused, ignoring Gwyn's implication. "Such a thing is possible? To train the mind?" Gwyn halted her exercising, too. Her teasing smile turned contemplative. "Well, yes. It requires constant practice, but there's a whole chapter in this book I summarized for Merrill about how they did it. It involved deep breathing and becoming aware of one's body, then learning to let go. They used it to remain calm in the face of their fears, to settle themselves after a hard battle, and to fight whatever inner demons they possessed." "Illyrian warriors do no such thing," Emerie murmured. "Their heads are full of rage and battle. It's only gotten worse since the last war. Now that they're rebuilding their ranks." "The Valkyries found heightened emotions distracting in the face of an opponent," Gwyn said. "They trained their minds to be weapons as sharp as any blade. To be able to keep their composure, to know how to access that place of calm in the midst of battle, made them unshakable opponents." Nesta's heart pounded with every word. Quieting her mind ... "Can you get a scribe to make copies of the chapter?" Gwyn grinned. "I already did." Cassian barked, "Do you three want to gossip or train?" Nesta threw him a scathing look. "Don't tell him of this," she warned them. "It's our secret." And wouldn't Cassian be surprised when she became the unflappable one? Emerie and Gwyn nodded their agreement as Cassian sauntered over. Every muscle, every bit of blood and bone in Nesta's body went on alert. She'd returned to the House this morning, winnowed in by a too-neutral Rhys. Cassian had been nowhere in sight. She'd had all of thirty minutes to eat breakfast and change into her spare leathers, since the ones she'd worn in the bog were still soaked. The pair she'd donned were bigger--not baggy, but just slightly larger. She hadn't noticed how tight her usual set was until she slid into the far more comfortable ones. Hadn't noticed how much muscle she'd packed onto her thighs and arms this month until she realized her movements had been restricted by the old pair. Cassian paused before them, hands on his hips. "Is there something more interesting today than your training?" He knew. The bastard knew they'd been discussing him. The spark in his eye, the half grin, told her. Emerie's lips quivered with the effort to keep from smiling. "Not at all." Gwyn's attention bounced between Nesta and Cassian. Cassian said to the priestess, "Yes?" Gwyn shook her head too quickly to be innocent and began her abdominal curls again, sweat gleaming on her freckled face. Emerie joined her, the two of them working so diligently that it was laughable. Nesta peered up at Cassian. "What?" His eyes danced with wicked amusement. "Did you finish your set?" "Yes." "And the push-ups?" "Yes." He stepped closer, and she couldn't help but think of how he'd approached last night, the way those hands had grasped her hips as he'd pounded into her from behind. Something must have shown on her face, because he said in a low voice, "You've certainly been productive, Nes." She swallowed, and knew the two females beside her were eating up every word. But she lifted her chin. "When do we get to do something of use? When do we start on archery or swords?" "You think you're ready to handle a sword?" Emerie let out a fizzing noise, but kept working. Nesta refused to smile, to blush, and said without breaking Cassian's stare, "Only you can tell me that." His nostrils flared. "Get up." Cassian had told himself two dozen times since walking out of that bedroom that the sex had been a mistake. But watching Nesta challenge him, the innuendo like a sizzling flame, he couldn't for the life of him remember why. Something to do with her only wanting sex, something to do with the sex being the best damn sex he'd ever had, and how it had left him in veritable pieces. Nesta blinked. "What?" He nodded toward the center of the pit. "You heard me. You think you're ready to handle a sword, then prove it." Her friends were clearly aware of what they'd done last night. Emerie couldn't even hide her laughing, and Gwyn kept sneaking looks at them. He barked at the two females, "Finish your exercises now or do double." They stopped their gawking. Nesta was still staring up at him, sweat and exertion filling that beautiful face of hers with color. A bead of perspiration slid down her temple, and he had to clench his fists to keep from leaning in to lick it away. She asked, "We're going to learn swords?" He aimed for the rack across the ring and she followed. "We're going to Start with wooden practice swords. Over my rotting corpse am I putting actual steel into the hands of novices." She snickered, and he stiffened. He tossed over a shoulder, "If you're too childish to talk of blades without giggling, then you're not ready for swordplay." She scowled. But Cassian said, "These are weapons of death." He let his voice lift so all the females could hear him, though he spoke only to her. "They need to be treated with a healthy dose of respect. I didn't even touch a real sword for the first seven years." "Seven years?" Gwyn demanded behind them. He reached the rack and drew out a long blade, a near-replica of the Illyrian one down his back. "You think children should be swinging around a real sword?" "No," Gwyn sputtered. "I just meant--do you plan for us to practice with wooden swords for seven years?" "If you three keep giggling, then yes." Nesta said to Gwyn and Emerie, "Don't let him bully you." Cassian snorted. "Dangerous words for a female about to go head-to- head with me." She rolled her eyes, but hesitated when he extended the practice sword to her hilt-first. "It's heavy," she observed as she took its full weight. "The real sword weighs more." Nesta glanced to his shoulder, where the hilt of his blade peeked over. "Really?" "Yes." He nodded to her hands. "Double-handed grip on the hilt. Don't choke up too close to the shaft." Emerie began coughing, and Nesta's mouth twitched, but she held it-- fought it. Even Cassian had to tamp down a laugh before he cleared his throat. But Nesta did as he bade. "Feet where I showed you," he said, well aware of every eye on them. From the way Nesta's face turned grave, Cassian knew she was aware, too. That this moment, with these priestesses watching, was pivotal, somehow. Vital. Nesta met Cassian's stare. And every thought of sex, of how good it had felt, eddied from her head as she lifted the blade before her. It was like a key sliding into a lock at last. It was a wooden sword, and yet it wasn't. It was a part of practice, and yet it wasn't. Cassian walked her through eight different cuts and blocks. Each was an individual move, he'd explained, and like the punches, they could be combined. The most difficult thing was to remember to lead with the hilt of the sword--and to use her entire body, not just her arms. "Block one," he ordered, and she lifted the sword perpendicular to her body, raising upward against an invisible enemy. "Slice three." She rotated the blade, reminding herself to lead with the stupid hilt, and slashed downward at an angle. "Thrust one." Another pivot and she lunged forward, slamming the blade through the breastplate of an imaginary enemy. Everyone had stopped to watch. "Block three," Cassian commanded. Nesta switched to a one-handed grip, her left hand coming up to her chest, where he'd told her to hold it. That would be her shield hand, he'd said, and learning to keep it tucked close would be key to her survival. "Slice two." She dragged the sword in a straight line upward, splitting that enemy from groin to sternum. "Block two." She pivoted on one foot, dragging the sword from that enemy's chest to intercept another invisible blow. None of her movements possessed any semblance of his elegance or power. They were stilted and it took her a second to remember each of the steps, but she told herself that would take more than thirty minutes of instruction. Cassian had reminded her of that often enough. "Good." He crossed his arms. "Block one, slice three, thrust two." She did so. The movements flowed faster, surer. Her breath clicked into sync with her body with each thrust. "Good, Nesta. Again." She could see the muddy battlefield, and hear the screams of friend and foe alike. Each movement was a fight for survival, for victory. "Again." She could see the King of Hybern, and the Cauldron, and the Ravens-- see the kelpie and Tomas and all those people who had sneered at the Archerons' poverty and desperation, the friends who had walked away with smiles on their faces. Her arm was a distant ache, secondary to that building song in her blood. It felt good. It felt so, so good. Cassian threw out different combinations, and she obeyed, let them flow through her. Every hated enemy, every moment she'd been powerless against them simmered to the surface. And with each movement of the sword, each breath, a thought formed. It echoed with every inhale, every thrust and block. Never again. Never again would she be weak. Never again would she be at someone's mercy. Never again would she fail. Never again, never again, never again. Cassian's voice stopped, and then the world paused, and all that existed was him, his fierce smile, as if he knew what song roared in her blood, as if he alone understood that the blade was an instrument to channel this raging fire in her. The other females were utterly silent. Their hesitation and shock shimmered in the air. Slowly, Nesta broke her stare from Cassian and looked to Emerie and Gwyn, already moving across the ring. Cassian had the wooden swords ready by the time they arrived. No fear shone in their eyes. As if they, too, saw what Cassian did. As if they, too, heard those words within Nesta's head. Never again. <|title|>Chapter 39 <|startofchapter|>The fire inside her didn't stop. Nesta could barely get through her work in the library that afternoon thanks to that fire, that bouncing energy. By the time the clock chimed six, she bade Clotho farewell and went straight to the outside stairwell. Down and down, around and around and around. Step to step to step. She didn't stop. Couldn't stop. As if she had been freed from a cage she hadn't realized she'd been held in. Every step downward, she heard the words. Never again. She had escaped the kelpie by pure luck. But she had been terrified. As terrified as when she'd been hauled into the depths of the Cauldron, as terrified as she'd been with Tomas. At least with Tomas, she had fought. With the kelpie, she had barely done anything until the Mask had spared her. She had become so afraid. So meek and trembling. It was unacceptable. Unacceptable that she had let herself balk and cower and curl inward. Down and down, around and around and around. Step to step to step. Never again. Never, ever again. Nesta reached the six thousandth step and began the ascent. The first of the autumnal rains arrived the next day, and Cassian half- expected the priestesses not to show up for practice, but they were already waiting in the cold and wet when he entered the training ring. None bothered to use magic to keep dry. As if they wanted the grit, the extra effort. In the center of the group stood Nesta, her eyes already focused. Cassian's blood heated, unable to keep his desire contained at the sight of that fierceness in her face, the eagerness to learn more, push harder. He hadn't sought her out last night, deciding to sleep at the river house rather than risk temptation. The sex had been that good--and he knew if he didn't put up some semblance of a barrier, it'd consume him entirely. She'd consume him entirely. Nesta, Emerie, and Gwyn stood together, and--there were three new priestesses today. "Ladies," he said by way of greeting, surveying the eleven soaked females waiting like troops to be commanded on a battlefield. Roslin had removed her hood, revealing a head of deep red hair and pale skin over delicate features. Her eyes were the color of caramel, and if she was afraid to be revealing her face at last, she did not let on. Cassian surveyed the rest of the lineup, and--vwell, that was new. Gwyn was in Illyrian leathers. Nesta's old ones, from the scent of them. Cassian observed them, all clear-eyed and eager. "I think we need another tutor." The next morning, though the females were hesitant around a newcomer, Azriel kept so aloof and quiet that they quickly relaxed around him. Az had readily agreed to squeeze in the lessons before heading out to keep an eye on Briallyn. Cassian continued to train Nesta, Emerie, and Gwyn. The rain didn't let up, and they were all soaked, but the exertion kept the bite of the cold away. "So this can really down a male in one move?" Gwyn asked Cassian as he stood before Nesta. They'd taken a break from the swords to stretch their hands, but rather than sit idle and have their bodies go stiff with inactivity, he'd shown them a few techniques to get out of a pinch. Gwyn had been distracted today--one eye on the other side of the ring. Cassian could only assume she was watching his brother, who had given Gwyn a small smile of greeting upon arrival. Gwyn hadn't returned it. Cassian cursed himself for a fool. He should have asked her if she'd be comfortable with Azriel here. Perhaps he should have asked all the priestesses about including another male, but especially Gwyn--whom Azriel had found that day in Sangravah. She'd said nothing about it during the lesson. Only glanced every now and then toward Az, who remained dutifully focused on his charges. Cassian couldn't read the expression on her face. He concentrated on the females in front of him. "This move will knock anyone unconscious if you hit the right spot." Cassian took Nesta's hand, placing it on his neck. Her fingers were so small against his, and freezing cold. He might have run his thumb over the back of her hand before he positioned her fingers. "You want to go for this pressure point. Hit it hard enough, you'!l make them drop like a stone." Nesta's fingers tightened, and he grabbed her hand. But she smirked, as if knowing she'd caught him. He squeezed her chilled fingers. "I know you were thinking of it." "I'd never do such a thing," she said mildly, her eyes dancing. Cassian winked, and Nesta slid her hand from his neck. "All right," he said. "Back to swords. Who wants to show me the eight points again?" Despite changing their clothes, Nesta and Gwyn remained chilled to the bone an hour after their lesson had finished. Nestled in a warm, comfortable nook in a rarely visited part of the library, Nesta sipped at her peppermint tea, letting its warmth soak through her body as she read through the chapter Gwyn had copied. She'd given one to Emerie before their friend had left, getting a promise from the Illyrian that she'd practice tonight and they'd compare notes tomorrow. "So it's really that easy?" Nesta asked, setting down the papers on the worn couch cushion. Gwyn, seated on the opposite end of the couch, stretched her feet toward the fire, robes rustling. "It certainly seems easy, but according to everything I've read, it's not." "This says you just sit somewhere comfortable and quiet, close your eyes, breathe a whole lot, and let your mind go." "I'm telling you: it took the Valkyries months to learn the basics, and mastering it required doing these exercises multiple times a day. But let's try it. It says at the end of this chapter that if we're doing this for the first time, we might grow sleepy--or even fall asleep during it--but learning to fight the urge to sleep is for further down the road." "I could use a nap after today's training," Nesta muttered, and Gwyn chuckled her agreement. Nesta set her tea on the low table before the couch. "All right. Let's try it." "I memorized the steps, so I'll lead us through it," Gwyn offered. Nesta snorted. "Of course you did." Gwyn playfully smacked her on the shoulder. "Learning this is my job, you know." "You'd have memorized this information anyway." "Fair enough." Gwyn laughed, finishing her own tea and then sitting up straight. "Get into a comfortable seated position--alert, but at ease." "I don't even know what that means." Gwyn demonstrated, scooting until her spine touched the back cushions, feet flat on the floor, hands lightly resting on her knees. Nesta copied the position. Gwyn surveyed her, then nodded. "Now take three deep breaths, in through your nose for a count of six, out through your mouth for a count of six. After you finish the third breath, close your eyes, and keep breathing." Nesta obeyed. Inhaling and exhaling for that long required more concentration and effort than she expected. Her breathing was too loud to her ears; each breath seemed out of sync with Gwyn's. Had she taken two breaths, or three? Or four? "I can feel you overthinking this," Gwyn murmured. "Close your eyes and keep breathing. Take five breaths." Nesta did. Without anything to visually distract her, she figured her breathing would be easier to track. It wasn't. Somehow, her mind just wanted to wander off. She told herself to focus on the count, on timing each breath and keeping a tally of how many she'd taken, and yet she found herself thinking of the couch cushions, her cooling tea, her still-damp hair-- How many breaths had it been? "I think I'm losing my mind," Nesta muttered. Gwyn shushed her. "Now let your breathing steady, and focus on the sounds around you. Acknowledge them, then let them fade away." Nesta did. To her left, she could make out shuffling feet and whispering robes. Who was walking through the stacks? What book were they-- Focus. Let the sounds go. Someone was walking nearby. She marked it, and with an exhale, sent the thought floating away. To her right, Gwyn's breathing remained steady. Gwyn was probably good at this. Gwyn was good at everything, actually. It didn't irk her, though. For whatever reason, Nesta wanted to crow about her friend to anyone who'd listen. Her friend. That was what Gwyn was. It had been-- Focus. Let go. Nesta noted Gwyn's breathing, released the thought, and moved on to the next sound. Then the next. "Now survey your body," Gwyn said softly. "Starting at your head, slowly working down to your toes, assess how you're feeling. If there are sore spots--" "Everything is sore after that sword lesson," Nesta hissed. Gwyn choked on another laugh. "I mean it. Note if there are sore spots, if there are spots that feel good ..." Papers rustled. "Oh, and the instructions also say that when you're done, you should assess how you are feeling. Don't dwell on it, but just acknowledge it." Nesta didn't particularly like the sound of the last bit, but she obeyed. Every part of her body ached, from a stiffness in her neck to a soreness along her left foot. She hadn't realized how many little pieces of herself existed, all constantly blaring their pains or status. How much noise it produced in her head. But she acknowledged each of those things. Let them drift away. Assessing her emotions, however ... How was she feeling? Right now, tired yet ... content to be here with Gwyn. Laughing. Doing this. If she went deeper ... "Now we're going to work on focused breathing. In through the nose, out through the mouth. Do ten of them, then start over. If a thought pops up, acknowledge it, then send it on its way. Tell yourself, I am the rock against which the surf crashes. Your thoughts are the surf. Let them crash over you." Easy enough. It wasn't. The first few times Nesta counted ten breaths, no thoughts plagued her at all. But when she began the next set ... What would Elain think, to see Nesta here with a friend? The thought bubbled up from nowhere. As if in opening her mind, it had rushed toward her. Would Elain be pleased, or would she feel the need to warn Gwyn about Nesta's true self? She'd been on breath five. No, six. Wait--maybe it had only been three. "Start over if you lose count," Gwyn said, as if she'd heard the halt of Nesta's steady breathing. Nesta did so, focusing on the breaths and not Elain. I acknowledge this thought about my sister, and I am letting it go. She was on her seventh breath when her sister appeared again. And yet somehow all you think of is what my trauma did to you. Had Elain been right? Feyre had admitted she was guilty of it, too, but --Feyre hadn't known Elain as Nesta did. Or, it hadn't been that way before. Before Elain had chosen Feyre. Before Amren had chosen Feyre. Before-- I acknowledge these thoughts and I am letting them go. Nesta inhaled an eighth time. I am focusing on my breathing. These thoughts exist, and I am letting them pass me by. Nesta took another breath. Forced her mind to think only of her breathing. "When you finish your next set of ten," Gwyn said, near and yet far away, "stop counting your breaths and just let your mind do as it wishes. We'll do that for a few heartbeats, then stop. The goal is to work up to longer and longer periods of this." Nesta did so, counting each of the ten remaining breaths. Feeling that moment of halting like a looming wave. She finished the tenth breath. Do as you want, mind. Go drift into those dark, horrible places. It didn't, though. Her mind lingered. Didn't wander. It just ... sat there. Contented. Resting. Like a cat curled at her feet. Stilled. Only a few moments passed before Gwyn whispered, "Begin to sink back into your body. Mark the sounds around us. Mark the feeling in your fingers, your toes." Strange--so strange to find her body suddenly ... calmed. Distant. Like she'd somehow indeed been able to step back. Let it rest. And her mind ... "Open your eyes," Gwyn breathed. Nesta did. And for the first time in her life, she felt utterly settled into her own skin. <|title|>Chapter 40 <|startofchapter|>The rain kept falling for two days, the temperatures plummeting with it. Leaves lay scattered around Velaris, and the Sidra was now a silver snake, sometimes hidden by the drifting mists. The females showed up every damn day without fail. But only Nesta stood at his side as he knocked on the door of the small blacksmith's shop on the western outskirts of Velaris. The gray-stoned, thatched-roof shop hadn't changed in the five centuries he'd been patronizing it--he bought all his non-Illyrian weapons there. He'd have taken her to an Illyrian blacksmith, but they were mostly backward, superstitious males who wanted females nowhere near their shops. The ruddy-skinned High Fae male who opened the door for them was skilled and kind, if gruff. "General," the male said, wiping his sooty hands on his stained leather apron. He opened the door wider, delicious heat blasting out to meet them in the chilled rain. The blacksmith's dark eyes swept over Nesta, noting her soaked hair and leathers, the calm intensity of her features despite the awful weather. She'd had that same look on her face, in every line of her body, while training this morning. And when Cassian had issued the invitation to join him here during the lunch hour. He'd invited all of the females, but Emerie had to return to Windhaven, and the priestesses had been unwilling to leave the mountain. So only Nesta had come with him to the small village, with the city looming on its eastern side and broad, flat plains stretching away toward the sea to the west. "How can I assist you?" Cassian nudged Nesta forward with a hand to the small of her back, and grinned at the male. "I want Lady Nesta to learn how a blade is made. Before she picks up a real one." The blacksmith surveyed her again. "I don't need an apprentice, I'm afraid." "Just a quick demonstration," Cassian said, keeping his smile in place as he glanced to Nesta, who was staring over the blacksmith's broad shoulder into the workshop behind him. The blacksmith frowned deeply, so Cassian added, "I want her to learn how much work and skill goes into the process. To show her that a blade is not merely a tool for killing, but a piece of art as well." Flattery always helped smooth the way. Rhys had taught him that. Nesta's gaze shifted to the blacksmith's face, and for a moment, they stared at each other. Then Nesta said, "Whatever you can show me, in whatever free time you have, would be much appreciated." Cassian tried not to show his surprise at her polite words. The hint of deference. It seemed to do the trick, as the blacksmith waved them in. Nesta listened while the dark-haired male explained the various stages of forging a blade, from the quality of the ore to the proving. Cassian kept near her, asking questions of his own, since she said little herself. One of the few times she'd spoken had been to request to move away from the roaring fires of the forge room to the quieter, cooler dark of the workshop proper. But as the blacksmith finished going over the design process for more ornate blades, Nesta asked, "Can I try it?" At the blacksmith's hesitation, Nesta stepped forward, eyes on the doorway beyond them, filled with the bellowing of the forge. "Hammering the blades, I mean. If you have any to spare." She glanced at Cassian. "You'll be compensated, of course." Cassian nodded. "We'll pay for the blades if they're damaged." The blacksmith surveyed Nesta again, as if testing the ore in her, then nodded. "I've got a few you could try your hand at." He led them back into the heat and flame and light, and Cassian could have sworn Nesta was inhaling and exhaling in a perfect, controlled rhythm. She kept her gaze only on the blacksmith, however, as he carried over a half- made sword and laid it upon the anvil. Pretty, but ordinary. A common, everyday sword, the blacksmith said. After a swift, flawless demonstration, he handed her the hammer. "Brace your feet like so," the blacksmith said, and Nesta followed his instructions until she lifted the hammer above one shoulder and swung down. A clanking thunk sounded, and the sword clattered. A clumsy near- miss. Nesta gritted her teeth. "That's not as easy as it looks." The blacksmith pointed to the sword. "Try again. It takes a while to grow accustomed to it." Cassian had never heard the male speak so ... gently. Normally their conversations were swift and to the point, free of formalities or personal tidbits. Nesta struck the sword again. A better hit this time, but still a sorry blow. Coals popped in the forge behind them, and Nesta flinched. Before Cassian could ask why, she'd gritted her teeth again and struck the sword a third time. Fourth. Fifth. By the time the blacksmith brought out a dagger, she'd gotten the hang of it. Was even smiling slightly. "Daggers require a different technique," the blacksmith explained, again demonstrating. So much work and skill and dedication, all for an ordinary blade. Cassian shook his head. When had he last stopped to appreciate the craftsmanship and labor that went into his weapons? Sweat beaded Nesta's brow as she hammered at the dagger, blows and body surer now. Pride wended through his chest. Here she was, that female who'd been forged during the war with Hybern. But different--more focused. Stronger. Cassian was only half-listening when the blacksmith brought out a great sword. But he snapped to attention as Nesta fell upon it in one smooth movement, the hammer striking clear and true. Strike after strike, and Cassian could have sworn the world paused as she unleashed herself with the same intensity she brought to training. The blacksmith smiled at her. The first time Cassian had ever seen the male do so. Nesta's arm arched above her, the hammer gripped in her clenched fingers. It was a dance, each of her movements timed to the ringing echo of the hammer on the blade. She pounded the sword to a music no one but she could hear. Cassian let her keep at it, the rain and wind rustling the thatched roof a distant counter-beat above them, and began to wonder what would emerge from the heat and shadows. Learning swordplay was no easy task--it required repetition and muscle memory and patience--but Nesta, Emerie, and Gwyn were game. No, Cassian realized as he watched them put away their swords in the icy rain that continued the next day. They were more than game: they trained with a newfound, steady focus. No one more so than Nesta, who now shelved her sword and took up a length of linen. She began wrapping her hands, rolling her neck as she did so. They hadn't spoken after the blacksmith lesson yesterday afternoon, though she'd thanked him quietly upon returning to the House of Wind. She'd had that intensity upon her face again, eyes distant--as if focusing on some invisible target. So he hadn't sought her out last night, even though every part of him had screamed to do so. But he'd give her time. Let her initiate when she was ready. If she wanted him again. Cassian shut down the thought. Allowed the icy rain to cool his desire, his dread. In silence, Nesta approached the punching block, a fallen tree trunk that had been wrapped in thick blankets. She approached it as if she were facing an opponent. She glanced over her shoulder to Cassian as she stopped before it, a question in her eyes. He nodded. "You want to use the last fifteen minutes to spar, go ahead." That was all she needed, and he was too pleased to say more as Nesta took up her fighting stance and began punching. The first impact of her knuckles against the padded wood hurt. But she hit where she was supposed to, and her thumb remained where she'd made it learn to stay, and when she pulled her arm back, the pain became a song. She threw another punch, eliciting a satisfying thunk from the wood. Good--it felt good. To get it out, to channel it this way. Her breathing was sharp as a blade, but she threw a left hook, then two jabs of her right fist. She didn't feel the rain, didn't feel the cold. Every punch carried her fear, her rage, her hate out of her body and into that wood. For three days, she'd had fire in her blood. For three days, she had dreamed of swords and stairs and combat. She couldn't stop it. Had fallen into bed so tired that she had no chance to even read before she was unconscious. There certainly had been no sex with Cassian. Not even a smoldering glance over the dining table. Azriel's presence helped. He now trained the newest recruits, quiet and gentle yet unfaltering, and if she didn't know better, she'd swear at least two of the priestesses--Roslin and Ilana--sighed every time he walked past. Some small, awful part of her was glad they didn't sigh over Cassian. She punched that thought out of herself, too. That pathetic, selfish thought. Just as all of her was pathetic, and selfish, and hateful. One-two, two-one-one; she punched and punched, throwing all of herself into the wood. "By the Cauldron," a familiar male voice said beside Cassian, and he turned to find Lucien in the archway to the training area. The rest of the priestesses and Azriel had left ten minutes earlier. Nesta hadn't even noticed. "Feyre said she was training, but I hadn't realized she was ... well, training." Cassian nodded his hello, keeping his eyes on Nesta where she punched the padded wood over and over, just as she had for the last twenty-five minutes straight. She'd gone into a place Cassian knew too well--where thought and body became one, where the world faded to nothing. Working something out from deep inside of herself. "Did you think she was filing her nails?" Lucien's mechanical eye clicked. His face tightened as Nesta threw a spectacular left hook into the wood beam. It shuddered with the impact. "I wonder if there are some things that should not be awoken," he murmured. Cassian cut him a glare. "Mind your own business, fireling." Lucien just watched Nesta attack, his golden skin a little pale. "Why are you here?" Cassian asked, unable to help the sharpness. "Where's Elain?" "I am not always in this city to see my mate." The last two words dripped with discomfort. "And I came up here because Feyre said I should. I need to kill a few hours before I'm to meet with her and Rhys. She thought I might enjoy seeing Nesta at work." "She's not a carnival attraction," Cassian said through his teeth. "It's not for entertainment." Lucien's red hair gleamed in the dimness of the rainy day. "I think Feyre wanted a progress assessment from someone who hasn't seen her in a while." "And?" Cassian bit out. Lucien threw him a withering look. "I'm not your enemy, you know. You can drop the aggressive brute act." Cassian gave him a grin that didn't meet his eyes. "Who says it's an act?" Lucien let out a long sigh. "Very well, then." Nesta threw another series of punches, and Cassian knew she was leading up to the knockout blow. Two left jabs and a right hook that slammed into the wood so hard it splintered. And then she stopped, her fist pressed against the wood. Her panting breath swirled from her mouth in the frigid rain. Slowly, she straightened, fist lowering, steam rippling through her teeth as she turned. He caught a flicker of silver fire in her eyes, then it vanished. Lucien had gone still. Nesta stalked toward the two males. She met Lucien's stare as she approached the archway, and said nothing before continuing into the House. As if words were beyond her. Only when her footsteps vanished did Lucien say, "Mother spare you all." Cassian was already walking to the wooden beam. A small disc of impact lay in its center, through the padding, all the way to the wood itself. It glowed. Cassian raised shaking fingers to it. To the burn mark, still sparking like an ember. The entire wood block was smoldering from within. He touched his palm to it. The wood was cold as ice. The block dissolved into a pile of cinders. Cassian stared in stunned silence, the smoking wood hissing in the rain. Lucien came up beside him. He only said again, voice solemn, "Mother spare you all." <|title|>Chapter 41 <|startofchapter|>Helion, High Lord of the Day Court, arrived at the Hewn City the next afternoon on a flying horse. He'd wanted to enter the dark city in a golden chariot led by four snow- white horses with manes of golden fire, Rhys had told Cassian, but Rhys had forbidden the chariot and horses, and let Helion know that he could winnow in or not come at all. Hence the pegasus. Helion's idea of a compromise. Cassian had heard the rumors of Helion's rare pegasuses. Myth claimed his prized stallion had flown so high the sun had scorched him black, but beholding the beast now ... Well, Cassian might have been envious, if he didn't have wings himself. The winged horses were rare--so rare that it was said Helion's seven breeding pairs of flying horses were the only ones left. Lore held that there had once been far more of them before recorded history, and that most had just vanished, as if they'd been devoured by the sky itself. Their population had dwindled further in the last thousand years, for reasons no one could explain. This hadn't been helped by Amarantha, who had butchered three dozen of Helion's pegasuses in addition to burning so many of his libraries. The seven pegasus pairs that remained had survived thanks to being set free before Amarantha's cronies could reach their pens in the highest tower of Helion's palace. Helion's most beloved pair--this black stallion, Meallan, and his mate --hadn't produced offspring in three hundred years, and that last foal hadn't made it out of weaning before he'd succumbed to an illness no healer could remedy. According to legend, the pegasuses had come from the island the Prison sat upon--had once fed in fair meadows that had long given way to moss and mist. Perhaps that was part of the decline: their homeland had vanished, and whatever had sustained them there was no longer. Cassian let himself admire the sight of Meallan alighting on the black stones of the courtyard before the towering gates into the mountain, the stallion's mane blowing in the wind off his jet-black wings. Few things remained in the faerie realms that could summon any sort of wonder from Cassian, but that magnificent stallion, proud and haughty and only half- tamed, snatched the breath from his chest. "Incredible," Rhys murmured, similar admiration shining in his face. Feyre beamed with delight, and Cassian knew from that look that she'd be painting this beast--and possibly its stunning master as well. Azriel, too, blinked in awe as the stallion pawed at the ground, huffing, and Helion patted the pegasus's thick, muscular neck before dismounting. "Well met," Rhys said, striding forward. "It's not the parade I wished," Helion said, clasping Rhys's hand, "but Meallan knows how to make an entrance." He let out a whistle, and the pegasus pivoted gracefully despite his size, flapped those mighty wings, and leaped back into the skies to wait elsewhere for his master. Helion grinned at Feyre, who'd watched the stallion soar into the clouds with wide eyes. He said, "I'll take you on a ride if you wish." Feyre smiled. "I would ordinarily take you up on that offer, but I'm afraid I can't risk it." Helion's brows lifted. For a heartbeat, Rhys and Feyre conferred silently, and then Rhys nodded. Rhys's voice filled Cassian's head a second later. We're telling him. Cassian kept his face neutral. Why risk it? Rhys said solemnly, Because we need his libraries. To find any way to save Feyre, Rhys didn't say. His High Lord went on, And because you and Azriel were right: it's only a matter of time until Feyre is showing. She's indulged my request for a shield, but she'll have my balls if I suggest glamouring her to hide the pregnancy. Rhys grimaced. So here we go. Cassian nodded. I've got your back, brother. Rhys threw him a grateful glance, and then must have lifted his shield on his mate because Feyre's scent--that wonderful, lovely scent--filled the air. Helion's eyes widened, going right to her middle, where her hand now rested against the small swelling. He let out a laugh. "So this is why you needed to learn about impenetrable shields, Rhysand." Helion leaned in to kiss Feyre's cheek. "My congratulations to you both." Feyre beamed, but Rhys's smile was less open. If Helion noted it, he said nothing. The High Lord of Day considered Cassian and Azriel, then frowned. "Where's my beautiful Mor?" Az said tightly, "Away." "Pity. She's far nicer to look at than either of you." Cassian rolled his eyes. Helion smirked, picking an invisible fleck of lint from his draped white robe, then faced Rhys. His dark brown skin gleamed over the strong muscles of his bare thighs and legs, the golden sandals that laced up his calves useless in the snowcapped terrain around them. The High Lord carried no weapons--the only metal on him was the golden armband around one muscled biceps, fashioned after a snake, and the spiked golden crown atop his shoulder-length black hair. There would never be any mistaking Helion for anything but a High Lord, yet Cassian had always rather liked his casual, irreverent air. The male drawled to Rhys, "Well? You wanted me to do some digging into a spell? Or was that an excuse to get me to your twisted pleasure palace under this mountain?" Rhys sighed. "Please don't make me regret bringing you here, Helion." Helion's golden eyes lit. "Where would the fun be if I didn't?" Feyre linked her arm through his. "I missed you, my friend." Helion patted her hand. "I'll deny it to the grave if you tell anyone, but I missed you too, Cursebreaker." "I like this palace much more than the one beneath," Helion said an hour later, surveying the moonstone pillars and gauzy curtains blowing in a mild breeze that belied the snow-crusted mountain range around them. Beyond the palace's shields, Cassian knew that breeze became a howling, bitter wind that could flay the flesh from one's bones. Helion flung himself into a low-lying chair before one of the endless views, sighing. "All right. Do you want my assessment now that we're out of the Hewn City?" Feyre slid into the seat beside his, but Cassian, Rhys, and Az remained standing, the shadowsinger leaning against a pillar, half-hidden from sight. Feyre asked, "Are the soldiers enchanted?" Helion had spoken to and briefly touched the hands of the two Autumn Court soldiers chained in that room, kept alive and fed by Rhys's magic. Helion's face had tensed when he'd touched their hands--and he'd then murmured that he'd seen enough. Nothing in the Hewn City had seemed to disturb him until that moment. Not the towering black pillars and their carvings, not the wicked people who occupied it, not the utter darkness of the place. If it reminded Helion of his time Under the Mountain, he did not let on. Amarantha had modeled her court there after this one, apparently--a sorry replica, Rhys had said. "Enchanted isn't the right word," Helion said, frowning. "Their bodies and actions are indeed not their own, but no spell lies upon them. I can feel spells--like threads. Ones that can enchant feel like bindings around an individual. I sensed none of that." "So what ails them?" Rhys asked. "I don't know," Helion admitted with unusual gravity. "Rather than a thread, it was more like a mist. A fog, exactly as you described it, Rhysand. There was nothing to grasp on to, nothing tangible to break, yet it was there." Rhys asked, "Does it feel less like a spell and more like ... an influence?" Shit. Shit. Helion rubbed his jaw. "I can't explain how, but it's as if this fog around their mind sways them." He noted their expressions. "What is it?" Feyre's mouth tightened. "The Crown--part of the Dread Trove." And then it all came out, Queen Briallyn and her hunt for the Trove, Koschei's involvement, the Mask that Nesta had retrieved. Only Eris's secrets regarding the depths of Beron's treachery remained unspoken. When Feyre finished, Helion shook his head slowly. "I thought we'd at least have a break from trying to avoid disasters like this." "Just the Harp remains at large, then," Azriel said. He remained leaning against the pillar, swathed in shadows. "If Briallyn has the Crown, it's possible she's had it for a while--and it's why the other queens fled to their own territories. Maybe they thought she'd use it on them, and ran. Maybe she even found it here during the war, while we were all distracted with fighting Hybern, and used it to pull her forces back, to bide her time. It could be what brought her to Koschei's attention--that it's what he wants from her." "I can buy that," Feyre said, "but why use it on Eris's soldiers to attack our people in Oorid? What's the motive?" "Perhaps it was to let us know she's aware that we know of her plans," Rhys suggested. "But how did she know we'd be in the bog?" Cassian asked. "Those soldiers didn't have the power to winnow--they would have had to travel on foot for weeks before they got there." "They've been missing for more than a month," Feyre pointed out. Helion said, "Remember that Briallyn is Made, too. She might not be able to scry for the Cauldron, but she can scry for the Dread Trove as well as Nesta Archeron can. She could have learned the Mask was in Oorid, but did not dare to venture into its darkness. It's possible that she planted the soldiers to take the Mask from you once you found it." "Or trick us into killing them, thus making an enemy of the Autumn Court," Cassian said. "But Briallyn has to be stupid," Feyre said, "if she thinks those soldiers would be enough to overpower any of us." Helion nodded to Feyre. "You said the Mask is here now? May I see it?" "We need your help with it, actually," Feyre said. "Rhys warded and locked the room where the Mask lies, but it opened the locks to let my sister in, likely because she's Made. And if she can get in, it's possible Briallyn could as well." Feyre slid her tattooed hands into her pockets. "Can you show Nesta how to ward it herself? Something perhaps with a bit more ... oomph?" "Oomph?" Rhys asked, lifting an eyebrow. "Oomph," Feyre said, throwing him a glare. "We can't all be silver- tongued like you." Rhys winked. "Good thing you benefit from it, Feyre darling." Cassian chose to ignore the innuendo, and the flicker of arousal from both of them. Helion, however, snickered. Azriel cleared his throat. "Nesta's waiting." "She's here?" Helion practically shimmered with golden light. "Yes," Feyre said simply, rising from the chair. Cassian didn't miss the sultry look his High Lady gave Rhys as she passed by, aiming for the rooms at the northern end of the palace. And he didn't miss the deep laugh Rhys gave her in return, full of sensual promise. He couldn't help the pang in his chest at the casual intimacy, the blatant affection and love. A far cry from just sex. Helion trailed, commenting on the palace's beauty. Cassian blocked him out, too busy mulling over how Nesta hadn't so much as bothered to object when he'd left her bed. And hadn't so much as approached him for more since. He'd held himself back, especially since she seemed to drive herself into the ground during practice, working out whatever she needed to in her heart, her mind. But he hadn't been able to stop remembering it--the sex, and that image of her, her backside still upraised as she lay on the bed, her beautiful sex swollen and gleaming, wet with his seed. "What are you thinking about?" Helion drawled as they approached a shut wooden door. Cassian straightened. He hadn't realized his thoughts had dragged such a scent from him. He grinned. "Your mother." Helion chuckled. "I always forget how much I like you." "Happy to remind you." Cassian winked. Feyre reached the door, knocked, and then there she was--Nesta. She sat at the table where the Mask rested, a book open before her. From the speed with which she shut the volume, Cassian knew she'd been reading one of the romances she, Emerie, and Gwyn traded amongst them. Cassian found himself tensing as Helion stepped into the room, and Nesta rose. She'd worn a dark blue dress today--the first time in a month he'd seen her in one. No longer did it hang off her. She'd packed on enough weight that the bodice was again formfitting, and those lush breasts swelled gracefully above the scooped neckline. Helion offered a bow of his head, the epitome of courtly grace. "Lady Nesta." Nesta bobbed a curtsy, but her eyes cut to Feyre. "Lady?" Feyre shrugged. "He's being polite." Nesta slid her eyes to Cassian's. "Now I understand why you find the title grating." He smiled, and Helion blinked--as if shocked she'd forgotten a High Lord stood before her. But Nesta had blown past Helion the first time they'd met, too, utterly unimpressed. Cassian said to her, "It never gets easier." Nesta faced Helion again, taking in that spiked golden crown and the draped white robe. "Was that your winged horse that flew over earlier?" Helion's smile was a thing of cultivated beauty. "He is my finest stallion." "He's lovely." "As are you." Nesta angled her head as Cassian found himself near-breathless, waiting for her reply. Feyre and Rhys seemed to be trying not to laugh, and Azriel was the portrait of cool boredom. Nesta surveyed Helion for long enough that he shifted on his feet. A High Lord shifted on his feet under her gaze. She said at last, "I appreciate the compliment," and that was that. That pause while she'd surveyed Helion had been a courtier's pause. Assessing how best to strike. Helion frowned slightly. Rhys cleared his throat, amusement glittering in his eyes. "Well, there it is." He pointed to the black velvet mound on the table. "Nesta?" She pulled away the cloth. Ancient, beaten gold gleamed, and Helion hissed as a cold, strange power filled the room, whispering like a chill breeze. Helion whirled to Nesta, all sensuality vanished. "You truly wore this and lived?" It wasn't a question meant to be answered. "Cover it again, please. I can't stand it." Rhys tucked in his wings. "It affects you that much?" "Doesn't it rake its cold claws down your senses?" Helion asked. "Not as much as all that," Feyre said. "We can sense its power, but it didn't bother any of us so seriously." Helion shuddered, and Nesta threw the cloth over the Mask. As if the cloth somehow blinded it to their presence. "Perhaps an ancestor of mine once used it, and the warning of its cost is imprinted upon my blood." Helion shook out a breath. "All right, not-Lady Nesta. Allow me to show you some warding tricks even clever Rhysand doesn't know." In the end, Helion created the wards and keyed them to Nesta's blood. A pinprick of it, courtesy of Truth-Teller, had done the job, and Cassian had found himself tensing at the sight of that little bead of red. Its scent. It was an effort of will to tell his body there was no threat, that the blood was willing, that she was fine. But it didn't stop him from grinding his teeth loudly enough that Feyre whispered to him beneath Nesta and Helion's conversation, "What's wrong with you?" Cassian muttered back, "Nothing. Stop being such a busybody, Cursebreaker." Feyre shot him a sidelong glance. "You're acting like a caged animal." Her lips curved upward. "Are you jealous?" Cassian kept his voice neutral. "Of Helion?" "I don't see anyone else in this room who's currently holding my sister's hand and smiling at her." The bastard was indeed doing that, though Nesta remained stone-faced. "Why would I be jealous?" Feyre's laugh was a rustle of air. Cassian couldn't stop his answering grin, earning a confused glance from Azriel. Cassian shook his head, just as Nesta pulled her hand from Helion's grip and asked, "So it's done?" "Once we leave this room, no one shall be able to enter it. Even you, if you do not unlock my wards, cannot enter." Nesta loosed a little sigh. "Good." "I'll show you the unlocking spell," Helion said, but she stepped away from him. "No," Nesta said abruptly. "No, I don't want to know it." Silence fell. Nesta declared to none of them in particular, "If Briallyn is hunting for the Mask, if she apprehends me, I don't want to have any knowledge of how to free it." It was wise, even if it made him sick to consider, but he could have sworn it was a lie. Could have sworn that Nesta didn't want to have access to the information--for herself. As if she might be tempted by the Mask. Rhys said, "That's fine. Helion can show me, and if we need the knowledge, I'll show you." Rhys held out a hand to Helion, indicating how he'd prefer to be shown the spell. Their fingers interlaced, their eyes going vacant, and then Rhys blinked. "Thank you." Azriel said, "We have to notify Eris about his soldiers' reappearance. And what we did to them." Cassian surveyed his family, his friends. "How much do we tell Eris? Do we let him know we have the Mask?" The question hung there. Then Rhys said, "Not yet." He nodded to Cassian. "Pay Eris a visit tomorrow." Rhys gestured to Nesta. "You go with him." Nesta stiffened, and Cassian tried not to gape. "Why?" she asked. "Because you savor playing the game," Rhys said. He'd undoubtedly noticed how smoothly she dealt with Helion's attempts to flirt earlier. Rhys knew how to wield a tool at his disposal. "But it's your choice," he added. Cassian cleared his throat. "Sounds fine to me." Nesta, to his surprise, didn't object. "I want to confirm that Briallyn has the Crown," Azriel said. "I'll travel to the human lands tomorrow." "No," Feyre and Rhys said at the same time, in the same breath. Azriel's eyes shuttered. "I wasn't asking for permission." Rhys smirked. "Doesn't matter." Az opened his mouth to object, but Feyre said, "You're not going, Azriel. If Briallyn has the Crown and catches you, even if she just suspects you're nearby, who knows what she could do to you?" "Give me some credit, Feyre," Az said. "I can keep hidden well enough." "We take no risks," Feyre said, voice flat with command. "Pull all your Spies out." "Like hell I will." Cassian braced himself, but Feyre didn't back down. "Information from your spies--any spies--can't be trusted with the Crown in play. Amren said it needs close contact to sink its claws into someone's mind. We stay far away from Briallyn." Azriel bristled and turned to Rhys. "And you agree with her?" "She's your High Lady," Rhys said coldly. "What she says is law." Az eyed him, eyed Feyre. Determined that they were an immovable unit, an impenetrable wall against which his fury would only break again and again. In the taut silence, Helion nodded to the bright hall beyond the room. "I would like to remove myself from the Mask's odious presence, and perhaps enjoy your palace, Rhysand. It's been a long while since I was in a place of such quiet. If you'll allow it, I'll stay here for an hour or two." "Something bothering you at home?" Rhys inquired, falling into step beside the High Lord. Cassian caught Nesta's stare as he left the room, and she grabbed her book before following them out. Feyre exited with Azriel, murmuring with a tattooed hand on his shoulder. Cassian asked Nesta, "What are you reading today?" "A Brief History of the Great Sieges by Osian." He almost stumbled a step. "Not a romance?" "I realized after you left me The Dance of Battle that there's a great deal left for me to learn. Last night I asked the House to give me something you might read." "Why?" Nesta tucked the book under an arm. "What's the point in learning fighting techniques if I don't know their true purpose and uses? You'd train me into a weapon, and I'd be just that: someone else's weapon. I want to know how to wield it--myself, I mean. And others." Cassian was stunned into silence as they ascended the steps, following Helion and Rhys, who chatted away at the head of their group. "You plan on leading an army, Nes?" "Not an army." She glanced sidelong at him. "But perhaps a small unit of females." She was dead serious. "The priestesses?" "I don't know if they'd join, but ... There are others out there, I'm sure, who might. I'm immortal now, or as close to it as possible. I have nothing but time to plan far into the future." His chest tightened. Planning for the future. It was a hell of a good sign. Cassian knocked on Nesta's bedroom door at the House after dinner. She hadn't joined him and Azriel, though perhaps it had been for the best. The High Lord and High Lady of the Night Court had faced off against the shadowsinger this afternoon, and emerged triumphant. Perhaps triumphant wasn't the right word, but the argument had ended with Azriel grudgingly agreeing not to spy on Briallyn for the time being-- and brooding all through dinner. Nesta's voice echoed through the wood. "Enter." He found her in bed, a book propped up against her knees. It appeared she'd gone back to romance. "No more war books?" He held up the three he had brought with him--his reason for being here. His excuse. "Only during the day." She sat up, gathering the blankets around her waist. "What are those?" "More texts I thought you might be interested in." He set them on the desk. Nesta dipped her chin in a shallow nod, her long braid bobbing over her chest with the movement. She wore a long-sleeved nightgown, and, though there was no fire in the hearth, the room stayed warm. As if the House had noted her dislike for fires and heated it another way. He forced himself to move from the desk, to aim for her door again. She said before he'd reached the archway, "Was it not good for you?" Cassian turned slowly. "What?" A flush stained her cheeks as she lifted her chin. "Was the sex not good for you?" He swallowed. "Why would you ask that?" Nesta's throat bobbed. She was ... Fuck, was she really that unsure of him? "You left quickly. And didn't seek me out again." I left quickly because I needed to keep some pieces of myself intact. "You've been focused on training." Her eyes flickered with something like hurt. "All right. Well, good night." "I didn't mean it like that. Fuck, Nesta." He stalked toward the bed, and she straightened again, peering at him as he towered over her. "How could I be so selfish--to demand more sex from you when you're so invested in training?" "It's not a demand if both sides want it," she said. "And I just worried you ... didn't enjoy it as much as I did." "You think I haven't sought you out because I didn't enjoy myself?" When she said nothing, he braced his hands on either side of her and leaned in to whisper in her ear, breathing in her scent, "I enjoyed myself too much. I've thought about it for days and days." She shivered, and he smiled against the soft shell of her ear. He loved this--seeing that icy exterior crumble, seeing how he affected her. "Have you been touching yourself at night, thinking about it like I do?" Nesta's chin dipped in the barest of nods, and from the corner of his eye, he spied a flash of her teeth as she bit her bottom lip. "Have those sweet little fingers felt as good as mine?" Her breathing hitched, but she wouldn't answer. He knew she didn't want to give him the satisfaction. He nipped at her earlobe, drawing a gasp from her. "Well?" "I don't know," she whispered. "I'd have to see again." "Hmm." Cassian lowered his mouth, pressing a kiss beneath her ear. His cock hardened, already aching against his pants. "Shall we do a little side-by-side comparison?" She whimpered, and he crawled onto the bed, straddling her legs. His blood pounded through every inch of him, in time to the pulse in his cock, and he pulled away from her neck to find her eyes bright with desire. The world quieted, and she stared and stared at him as he slowly pulled the blankets down to her waist. Her nightgown was rucked up her thighs, and he ran a hand over one of them, thumb stroking the sleek muscles building there. "Why don't you show me how you touch yourself, Nesta? And then I'll remind you how I touch you." He bared his teeth in a wicked grin. "You can tell me what feels better." Her chest heaved, her pebbled breasts peeking through the nightgown. His mouth watered, body trembling with the restraint needed to keep from putting his mouth over them. She seemed to read every line of his body, his desire. Her eyes glinted with molten fire. "While I ... touch myself, you are forbidden to touch me." A feral smile. "And forbidden to touch yourself." His skin heated, stretching too tight over his bones. "All right." Cassian waited for her to nestle into the pillows, but she grabbed the hem of her nightgown to pull it over herself, bunching it into a ball before chucking it to the floor. Every thought eddied from his mind as she half-reclined there, utterly naked, those beautiful breasts peaked and waiting for him, her silken flesh near-glowing. And between her legs ... She drew her knees up slightly, spreading them. Baring herself. Cassian made a low, pained sound. Her pink sex gleamed--its heady, seductive scent beckoning. He needed to taste it, to feel her on his tongue, on his cock-- "No touching," Nesta purred, because his hand had been drifting toward his cock, desperate for any sort of relief from the sight of her open and bare, the faelights gilding her. His breath rasped in his throat--and then vanished entirely as Nesta slid two delicate fingers down her body. They stopped atop that bundle of nerves, circling slowly. Her breathing turned uneven, but she watched him observe her as she made another circle, and then moved lower. A slow, torturous slide down her center before her wrist curved, and she dipped her fingers into herself. Cassian groaned, hips bucking a bit where he knelt, and she cut him a reprimanding look. He stilled, unable to think about anything other than her two fingers as she slid them into herself again, and moaned. They emerged shining with her wetness, and he might have been panting as she plunged them into herself a third time, deep and slow. "This," she breathed, her fingers beginning a slow, steady pump, "is what I do when I think of you every night." If she so much as touched him, he'd come. But he growled, "Do it harder." She shivered as if his words were a physical touch, and obeyed. They both groaned this time, and he found himself saying, "Please." He didn't know what it meant--only that he needed to touch her. Nesta smiled at him with feline amusement. "Not yet." She drove her hand between her legs again. "I imagine you taking me, over and over again. Rough, like we did before." He couldn't breathe, couldn't do anything but stare at her hand, her pleasure-hazed face. "I imagine you less patient than you were the first time, just thrusting into me, all the way." She echoed her words with a swift plunge of her fingers. "I don't want to hurt you," he got out, praying to the Mother and the Cauldron to maintain his sanity. "You won't hurt me." Her other hand teased that bundle of nerves. "I want you unleashed." Cassian made a low noise of need. She huffed a wicked laugh. "Do you want to watch me come? Or do you want to taste it?" "Taste." He'd beg on hot coals for one lick of her. She spread her legs wider. "Then have at me, Cassian." His name on her lips was his undoing. He gripped her thighs and spread them wide, and then his mouth was on her, licking her from base to apex in a long, luxurious slide. She moaned, louder than the first time, and he only grabbed her legs again, hooking them over his shoulders as he buried his face against her. There was nothing gentle in it, nothing teasing. He feasted with tongue and lips and teeth, and every taste of her made the roaring in his blood rise like a mighty wave within him. Nesta ground against him, toes tickling his wings so much he had to pause for a moment to keep from coming at that mere touch. He'd teach her wingplay later. Because he wanted her to touch his wings, to learn where to stroke while he fucked her so that he'd come hard enough to see stars, to learn what places to stroke even while he wasn't fucking her so he'd come in her hand, her mouth. He slid his tongue into her core, release already building under his skin, in his spine. Too soon--he didn't want to go too soon. He made himself take a breath. Made himself pull back, pull away. The sight of her on the pillows, naked and open for him, nearly made him come. But he removed his shirt. His pants. Only when he was naked, kneeling between her legs, his cock jutting forward, did he say, "Do you want my fingers, my tongue, or my cock, Nesta?" He fisted the last item for her, pumping himself in a slow, nearly painful squeeze. She watched, eyes widening, as if remembering the size of him inside her. "What of a side-by-side comparison?" she managed to say, but the haughtiness wasn't in her eyes, not as he pumped himself again, savoring how it made her breath catch. "Whatever you want. Whatever you need from me." He knew those were a fool's words, knew he offered up too much. But she only looked at his cock. "I want that. Now." He muttered a prayer of thanks to the Mother and lay over her, bracing himself on his arms. "Put me inside you." When Nesta's hand wrapped around him, he arched, gritting his teeth. She smiled at that, and pumped him as hard as he'd pumped himself, just this side of pain. Then she fitted him to her drenched entrance. He didn't wait this time. Didn't go tenderly, not when she'd told him she wanted it otherwise. Cassian plunged into her, driving right to the hilt. Nesta let out a sound somewhere between a moan and a scream, and he found himself echoing it as all her silken, blazing heat gripped him. She was so perfectly, mind-meltingly tight. As if she'd been made for him, and he'd been made for her. Cassian drew out in a long slide, and thrust back, seating himself fully. Her fingernails dug into his shoulders, the pain of it secondary, the pain of it a pleasure as she marked him. He withdrew again, lowering his head to watch his cock slide out of her, gleaming with her wetness--and then enter her anew. Every inch into that tight, blazing core of her was paradise and torment, and he needed more, needed to be deeper, needed to crawl so far inside her that there would be no disentangling them. Her nails sliced through his skin, and the tang of his blood filled the air. He just leaned down to kiss her. She parted for him instantly, and he let her taste herself on his tongue, moving his own in time to his thrusts. Nesta wrapped her lips around his tongue and sucked on it as she had his cock, and any sane thought faded away. Gathering her to him, Cassian knelt, her legs locking around his waist as he thrust up and up and up into her. She tipped her head back, baring her throat, and he bit down on the center of it, hard enough to leave a mark. Nesta moved on his cock, and he drove deeper into her. Scraped his teeth over her neck. She let go of his shoulder to cup her breast, and he nearly climaxed as he found her lifting it up toward him in silent command. Cassian licked her nipple, and she ground onto him, those delicate inner muscles clenching tight. "Fuck," he said around her breast. She laughed breathily and did it again. Then there was only his tongue and teeth at her breast, the near-savage pounding of his cock into her tight warmth, the rhythm of her hips as she met him for each stroke, as if trying to work him even deeper. He dragged his mouth from her breast to bite her neck, her shoulder, sealing their bodies together, fusing them into one being as he thrust deeper still, harder still. And then her fingers found his wings. The touch wasn't slicing, but gentle--such a gentle, tentative, wondrous stroke that he roared. Release barreled into him, and he rammed up into her in such a mighty thrust that she screamed, climaxing with him. She clamped around him, pulsing and milking, and he bucked, frenzied, reduced to this need to be in her, to spill into her, to spill as much of himself as he could. Nesta rode him until he'd stopped spurting, until her pleasure had her draped over his chest, an arm still outstretched toward his wing. They clung to each other, and he tried to piece himself back together, to remember what the fuck his name was and where they were. But there was only her. Only this female in his arms. And the only name he could remember was hers. Nesta couldn't move. Wrapped around Cassian where he knelt in the center of the bed, his hands still digging into her ass to hold her in place, his cock buried deeply inside her, she didn't want to move. She'd never been this way with anyone, where one look from her lover brought her a heartbeat away from release; one look from him and she was taking off her clothes and pleasuring herself in front of him. She didn't have it in herself to be embarrassed. Not when it had felt so good, so right. He was trembling, his wings twitching as his cock at last finished spending itself. She told herself she shouldn't enjoy it so much--seeing him undone, feeling his seed inside her, leaking out of her. And the fact that she did had her climbing away at last, moaning softly as she slid off his cock. She knelt before him, nearly knee to knee. "I still need more." Cassian's head lifted, eyes flashing. "I know." She couldn't breathe under that stare, that beautiful face. "How can I need you again so soon?" It wasn't a coy, courtier's question--it was voiced out of sheer desperation. Because she did need more. She needed him back inside her, needed his weight, his mouth and teeth on her. She had no explanation for it, that rising, unquenchable thirst. His eyes flickered. "I've needed you from the moment I first met you. And now that I get to have you, I don't want to stop." "Yes," she breathed, about as much of the truth as she'd admit. "Yes." They stared at each other for a long minute, for eternity. And then, to her shock and delight, Cassian hardened before her eyes. "Do you see what you do to me?" he asked. "Do you see what happens every time I look at you, all fucking day?" She smirked. "I vaguely recall you boasting weeks ago that I would be the one to crawl into your bed. It seems like you did the crawling." His lips twitched upward. "It would seem so." Her heart thundered as he held her stare. "Get on your hands and knees," he ordered, his voice so low she could barely understand him. But her blood heated, and an ache that had nothing to do with how hard he'd just taken her began to build between her legs once more. So Nesta did as he bade, baring herself, still wet and gleaming with both of their releases. He snarled in satisfaction. "Beautiful." She whimpered a bit--because beneath the praise, pure lust simmered. He growled, "Put your hands on the headboard." Her breath began sawing out of her again, but she obeyed, already thrumming with need. Cassian rose behind her, gripping her hips. He knocked a knee against each of her own, spreading her legs wider. Callused fingertips brushed down the length of her spine, over the tattoo there, the ink binding them. He leaned to whisper in her ear, "Hold on tight." <|title|>Chapter 42 <|startofchapter|>Cassian got the summons to the river house just after dawn. He hadn't slept in Nesta's room--no, after that second time, when his entire body had been turned to sated, content jelly, he'd rolled off her and returned to his own suite. She hadn't said anything. The understanding had been there, though: just sex, but they needn't wait so long again. Sleep had been elusive as he'd thought of what they'd done, what he'd done to her. The second time had been even rougher than the first, and she'd taken everything he'd thrown at her, met his demanding pace and depth, and had held that headboard until her body had collapsed with pleasure. Gods, sex with Nesta was like ... He didn't let himself dwell on comparisons as he sat in Rhys's office next to Amren and Azriel, facing their High Lord across his desk. Those thoughts had not done him any favors last night. Or this morning, when he woke hard and aching, and realized that the scent of her was all over him. He knew his friends smelled it. Neither Rhys nor Az had commented, but Amren's eyes had narrowed. Yet she said nothing, and he wondered if Rhys had given her a silent command. Cassian filed away his curiosity about why Rhys might have felt the need to do such a thing. "All right, Rhysand," Amren said, tucking one foot under her thigh. "Tell me why I'm here before breakfast while Varian is still sleeping soundly in my bed." Rhys pulled back a canvas tarp that had been over part of his desk. "We're here because I got a visit at dawn from a blacksmith out by the western edge of the city." Cassian went still as he saw what lay there: a sword, a dagger, and a longer great sword, all sheathed in black leather. "What blacksmith?" Rhys leaned back in his chair, crossing his arms. "The one you and Nesta visited several days ago." Cassian's brow furrowed. "Why did he bring you these weapons? As a gift?" Azriel leaned forward, a scarred hand reaching for the closest sword. "I wouldn't do that," Rhys warned, and Az halted. Rhys said to Cassian, "The blacksmith dumped them here in an absolute panic. He said the blades were cursed." Cassian's blood chilled. Amren asked, "Cursed in what way?" "He just said cursed," Rhys replied, motioning to the weapons. "Said he wanted nothing to do with them and they were our problem now." Amren slid her eyes to Cassian. "What happened in the shop?" "Nothing," he said. "He let her hammer at the metal for a bit, so she could get a sense of the hard work that went into making weapons. But there was no cursing." Rhys straightened. "Nesta hammered the blades?" "All three," Cassian said. "First the sword, then the dagger, and then the great sword." Rhys and Amren exchanged a look. Cassian demanded, "What?" Rhys asked Amren, "Is it possible?" Amren gazed at the blades. "It has been ... It has been such a long time, but ... yes." "Someone please explain," Azriel said, peering at the three blades from a safe distance. Cassian forced himself to sit perfectly still as Rhys dragged a hand through his black hair. "Once, the High Fae were more elemental, more given to reading the stars and crafting masterpieces of art and jewelry and weaponry. Their gifts were rawer, more connected to nature, and they could imbue objects with that power." Cassian instantly knew where this was headed. "Nesta put her power in those swords?" "No one has been able to create a magic sword in more than ten thousand years," Amren said. "The last one Made, the great blade Gwydion, vanished around the time the last of the Trove went missing." "This sword isn't Gwydion," Cassian said, well aware of the myths regarding the sword. It had belonged to a true Fae High King in Prythian, as there had been in Hybern. He had united the lands, its people--and for a while, with that sword, peace had reigned. Until he had been betrayed by his own queen and his fiercest general, and lost the sword to them, and the lands fell into darkness once more. Never again to see another High King--only High Lords, who ruled the territories that had once answered to the king. "Gwydion is gone," Amren said, a shade sadly, "or has been gladly missing for millennia." She nodded toward the great sword. "This is something new." Azriel said, "Nesta created a new magic sword." "Yes," Amren said. "Only the Great Powers could do that--Gwydion was given its powers when the High Priestess Oleanna dipped it into the Cauldron during its crafting." Cassian's blood chilled, waves rippling over his skin. "One touch from Nesta's magic while the blade was still hot ..." "And the blade was infused with it." "Nesta didn't know what she was doing," Cassian said. "She was letting off some steam." "Which might be worse," Amren said. "Who knows what emotions she poured into the blades with her power? It might have shaped them into instruments of such feelings--or it might have been the catalyst to release her power. There is no way of knowing." "So we use the sword," Cassian said, "and figure it out." "No," Amren countered sharply. "I wouldn't dare draw these blades. Especially not the great sword. I can feel power clustering there. Did she work on that one longest?" "Yes." "Then it is to be treated as an object of the Dread Trove. A new Trove." "You can't be serious." Amren's brows flattened. "The Dread Trove was forged by the Cauldron. Nesta possesses the Cauldron's powers. So anything she crafts and imbues with her power becomes a new Trove. At this point, I wouldn't so much as eat a piece of bread if she'd toasted it." They all stared at the three blades atop the desk. Azriel said, "People will kill for this power. Either kill her to stop it, or kill us to capture her." "Nesta forged a new Trove," Cassian said, reining in his rage at the truth of Azriel's words. "She could create anything." He nodded to Rhys. "She could fill our arsenals with weapons that would win us any war." Briallyn, Koschei, and Beron wouldn't stand a chance. "Which is why Nesta must not learn about it," Amren said. Cassian demanded, "What?" Amren's gray eyes held steady. "She cannot know." Rhys said, "That seems like a risk. What if, unaware, she creates more?" "What if, in one of her moods," Amren challenged, "Nesta creates what she pleases just to spite us?" "She'd never do that," Cassian said hotly. He pointed at her. "You fucking know it, too." "Nesta would create not a Dread Trove," Amren said, unfazed by his snarling, "but a Trove of Nightmares." "I can't lie to her," Cassian said, looking to Rhys. "I can't." "You don't need to lie," Amren answered. "Simply don't volunteer the information." He appealed to Rhys, "You're all right with this? Because I'm sure as hell not." "Amren's order holds," Rhys said, and for a heartbeat, Cassian hated him. Hated the mistrust and wariness he beheld on Rhys's face. "I'd be careful when you're fucking her," Amren added, lips curling in a sneer. "Who knows what she might transform you into when her emotions are high?" "That's enough," Azriel said, and Cassian turned grateful eyes to his brother. Az continued, "I'm with Cassian on this. It's not right to keep the knowledge from Nesta." Rhys considered, then gazed long and hard at Cassian. Cassian weathered the look, kept his back straight and face grave. Rhys said at last, "When Feyre returns from her studio, I'll ask her. She'll be the deciding vote." It was a compromise, and even Amren could agree with that. Cassian nodded, uneasy but willing to let the decision lie in Feyre's hands. Amren nestled back into her chair. "That sword shall be known by history." Her eyes darkened as she looked at the great sword, her words echoing. "It remains to be seen whether it shall be known for good or evil." Cassian shook off the shiver that slithered down his spine, as if fate itself heard her words and shuddered. He threw her a grin. "You do love to be dramatic, don't you?" Amren scowled, then rose. "I'm going back to bed." She pointed at Rhysand. "Put those weapons somewhere no one will find them. And Mother damn you if you dare unsheathe one." Rhys waved her off, bored and tired. "Of course." "I mean it, boy," Amren said. "Do not unsheathe those blades." She surveyed all three of them before she left. "Any of you." For a moment, only the ticking grandfather clock made a sound. Rhys looked toward it. Then he said, eyes distant, "I can't find anything to help Feyre with the baby--with the labor." Cassian's chest tightened. "Drakon and Miryam?" Rhys shook his head. "The Seraphim's wings are as flexible and rounded as the Illyrians'? are bony. That's what will kill Feyre. Miryam's children were able to pass through her birth canal because their wings bent easily--and nearly every one of her human people who's mixed with Drakon's has had similar success." Rhys's throat bobbed. His next words cracked Cassian's heart. "I didn't realize how much hope I'd been holding on to until I saw the pity and fear in their faces. Until Drakon had to embrace me to keep me from falling apart." Cassian crossed to his brother in a few steps. He clasped Rhys's shoulder, leaning against the edge of the desk. "We'll keep looking. What about Thesan?" Rhys loosened the uppermost buttons on his black jacket, revealing a hint of the tattooed chest beneath. "The Dawn Court had nothing of use. The Peregryns are similar to the Seraphim--they're related, though distantly. Their healers know how to get a breech baby with wings to turn, how to get it out of the mother, but again: their wings are flexible." Azriel appeared on Rhys's other side, a hand on his shoulder as well. The clock ticked on, a brutal reminder of every second racing toward sure doom. What they needed, Cassian realized with each tick of that clock, was a miracle. Azriel asked, "And Feyre still doesn't know?" "No. She knows the labor will be difficult, but I haven't told her yet that it might very well claim her life." Rhys spoke into their minds, as if he couldn't say it aloud, I haven't told her that the nightmares that now send me lurching from sleep aren't ones of the past, but of the future. Cassian squeezed Rhys's shoulder. "Why won't you tell her?" Rhys's throat worked. "Because I can't bring myself to give her that fear. To take away one bit of the joy in her eyes every time she puts a hand on her belly." His voice shook. "It is fucking eating me alive, this terror. I keep myself busy, but ... there is no one to bargain with for her life, no amount of wealth to buy it, nothing that I can do to save her." "Helion?" Azriel asked, eyes pained. "I told him before he left yesterday. Pulled him aside when Feyre had winnowed home, and begged him on my knees to find something in his thousand libraries to save her. He said every head librarian and researcher who can be spared will be put on it. Somewhere in history, someone must have studied this. Found a way to deliver a baby with wings to a mother whose body was not equipped for it." "We'll hold on to our hope, then," Cassian said. Rhys shuddered, hanging his head, his silken black hair obscuring his eyes. Cassian lifted his stare to Azriel, whose face conveyed everything: hope wouldn't keep Feyre alive. Cassian swallowed hard, and shifted his gaze to the three blades on the desk. Their hilts were ordinary--as might be expected from a blacksmith in a small village. He made fine weapons, yes, but not artistic masterpieces. The great sword's hilt was a simple cross guard, the pommel a rounded bit of metal. Gwydion, the last of the magic swords, had been dark as night and as beautiful. How many games had Cassian played as a child with Rhys and Azriel, where a long stick had been a stand-in for Gwydion? How many adventures had they imagined, sharing that mythical sword between them as they slew wyrms and rescued damsels? Never mind that Rhys's particular damsel had slain a wyrm herself and rescued him instead. But if Amren was right ... Cassian couldn't think of another place in the world that held three magic blades, let alone one. These might very well be the only ones in existence. Cassian drummed his fingers on the desk, curiosity biting deep. "Let's have a look." "Amren said not to," Azriel warned. "Amren's not here," Cassian said, smirking. "And we don't need to touch them." He clapped Rhys on the shoulder. "Use that fancy magic to unsheathe them." Rhys lifted his head. "This is a bad idea." Cassian winked. "That should be written on the Night Court crest." A few stars blinked into existence in Rhys's eyes. Azriel muttered a prayer. But Rhys took two steadying breaths and unspooled his power toward the massive sword, letting it lift the blade in star-flecked hands. "It's heavy," Rhys observed, brows bunched in concentration. "In a way it should not be. Like it's fighting against my magic." He kept the sword floating above his desk, perpendicular to it, as if it were held in a stand. Cassian braced himself as Rhys angled his head, his magic probing the hilt, the scabbard. Rhys mused, "The blacksmith never said anything about what had seemed cursed, and he must have touched it several times--to feel the power and to bring it here, at least. So it can't be a death-sword to slay any careless hand." Azriel grunted. "I'd still be careful." With a wicked smile toward Az, Rhys used his power to draw away the black scabbard. It did not go easily, as if the sword did not wish to be revealed--or not by Rhysand. But inch by inch, the scabbard slid from the blade. And inch by inch, fresh steel glowed--truly glowed, like moonlight lay within the metal. Even Az didn't school his features into anything but gaping awe as the scabbard fell away at last. Cassian stumbled back, gawking. Iridescent sparks danced along the blade. Pure, crackling magic. The light danced and spurted as if an invisible hammer still struck it. The hair on Cassian's body rose. Rhys inhaled, rallying his magic, then floated and unsheathed the other sword and the dagger. They did not spark with raw power, but Cassian could feel them. The dagger radiated cold, its blade gleaming so bright it looked like an icicle in the sun. The second sword seemed hot--angry and willful. But the great sword between the two others ... The sparks faded, as if sucked into the blade itself. None of them dared touch it. Something deep and primal within Cassian warned him not to. That to be impaled or sliced by that blade would be no ordinary wound. A soft, female laugh rippled from the door, and Cassian didn't need to turn to know Amren stood there. "I knew you idiots wouldn't be able to resist." Rhys murmured, "I have never seen anything like this." His magic set the three blades to rotating, allowing them to observe every facet. Az's face was still slack with awe. "Amarantha destroyed one," Amren said. Cassian started. "I never heard that." Amren amended, "Rumor claimed she dumped one into the sea. It would not come to Amarantha's hand, nor the hands of any of her commanders, and rather than let the King of Hybern attain it, she disposed of it." Azriel asked, "Which sword?" "Narben." Amren's red lips quirked downward. "At least that's what rumor said. You were Under the Mountain then, Rhys. She would have kept it secret. I only heard from a fleeing water-nymph that it had been done." "Narben was even older than Gwydion," Rhys said. "Where the hell was it?" "I don't know, but she found it, and when it would not bend to her, she destroyed it. As she did all good things." It was as much as Amren would say about that terrible time. "It was perhaps in our favor. Had the King of Hybern possessed Narben, I fear we would have lost the war." Narben's powers had not been the holy, savior's light of Gwydion, but ones far darker. "I can't believe that witch threw it into the sea," Cassian said. "Again, it was a rumor, heard from someone who heard it from someone. Who knows if she actually found Narben? Even if it would not obey her, she'd have been a fool to throw it away." "Amarantha could be shortsighted," Rhys said. Cassian hated the sound of her name on his brother's tongue. From the flare of rage on Azriel's face, so did the shadowsinger. "But you, Rhysand, are not." Amren nodded to the still-rotating weapons. "With these three blades, you could make yourself High King." The words clanged through the room. Cassian slowly blinked. Rhys said tightly, "I don't wish to be High King. I only wish to be here, with my mate and my people." Amren countered, "All seven courts united under one ruler would give us far better odds of survival in any upcoming conflict. No bickering and politicking required to dispatch our armies. Malcontents like Beron would have no ability to threaten our plans by allying with our enemies." "We would have to fight an internal war first. I would be branded a traitor by my friends in other courts--I'd be forced to make them kneel." Azriel stepped forward, shadows trailing from his shoulders. "Kallias, Tarquin, and Helion might be willing to kneel. Thesan will kneel if the others do." Cassian nodded. Rhys as High King: he could think of no other male he'd trust more. No other male who would be a fairer ruler than Rhys. And with Feyre as High Queen ... Prythian would be blessed to have such leaders. So Cassian said, "Tamlin would probably fight, and lose. Beron would be the only one standing in your way." Rhys's teeth flashed. "Beron is already standing in my way, and doing a damn good job of it. I have no interest in justifying his behavior." He gave Cassian a withering look. "Don't we have to leave soon to winnow you and Nesta down to the Spring Court to meet with Eris?" "Don't change the subject," Cassian drawled. Rhys's power rumbled in the room. "I do not want to be High King. There is no need to discuss it." "Yours is a terrible and beautiful power, Rhysand," Amren said, sighing. "You have three magic blades before you, each a kingmaker in its own right, and yet you would rather share that power. Keep to your borders. Why?" Rhys demanded, "Why do you want me to turn conqueror?" Amren shot back, "Why do you shy from the power that is your birthright?" "I did nothing to earn that power," Rhys said. "I was born with it. It is a tool to defend my people, not to attack others." He surveyed them. "Where is this talk coming from?" Azriel said quietly, "We are weakened--all seven courts. Even more at odds with each other and with the rest of the world since the war. If Montesere and Vallahan march on us, if Rask joins with them, we will not withstand it. Not with Beron already turned against us and allied with Briallyn. Not if Tamlin cannot master his guilt and grief and become what he once was." Cassian picked up the thread, tucking in his wings. "But a land united under one king and queen, armed with such power and objects ... Our enemies would hesitate." Rhys snarled, "If you think for one moment that Feyre would be remotely interested in being High Queen, you're delusional." Amren said, "Feyre would see it as a necessary evil. To protect your child from being born into war, she would do what is necessary." "And I won't?" Rhys demanded, standing. "I will not be High King. I will not consider it, not today and not in a century." Amren looked to the great sword, still slowly rotating above them. "Then explain to me why, after thousands of years, objects that once crowned and aided the old Fae have returned. The last time a High King ruled Prythian, it was with a magic sword in his hand. Look at that great sword before you, Rhysand, and tell me that it is not a sign from the Cauldron itself." Cassian's breath caught in his throat. "It was a fluke, Amren. Nesta didn't make it on purpose." Amren shook her head, hair swaying. "Nothing is a fluke. The Cauldron's power flows through Nesta, and could use her as a puppet without her knowledge. It wanted those weapons Made, and thus they were Made. It wanted Rhysand to have them and thus the blacksmith brought them to you. To you, Rhysand, not to Nesta. And do not forget that Nesta herself--and Elain, with whatever powers she has--is here. Feyre is here. All three sisters blessed by fate and gifted with powers to match your own. Feyre alone doubles your strength. Nesta makes you unstoppable. Especially if she were to march into battle wearing the Mask. No enemy could stand against her. She'd slay Beron's soldiers, then raise them from the dead and turn them on him." Cassian's blood chilled. Yes, Nesta would be unstoppable. But at what cost to her soul? Rhys leveled a cool stare at Amren. "I will not entertain this ridiculous notion for another moment." Cassian knew they'd been dismissed. He nodded to Az, who followed him toward the doors. They paused, however, right before the threshold. Looked back at their brother, their High Lord, now seated alone at his desk. The weight of so many choices pressing heavy on his broad shoulders, drooping his wings. "Very well then, Rhysand." Amren also turned from the desk and the blades Rhys's magic now sheathed and set upon the surface. "But know that the Cauldron's benevolence will be extended to you only for so long before it is offered to another." <|title|>Chapter 43 <|startofchapter|>Breathing in the heady, sweet scent of the purple lilac bush blooming behind them, Nesta glanced sidelong at Cassian. She could have sworn he was subtly scratching himself whenever she turned away to admire the sheer beauty and peace of the Spring Court forest. Rhys had winnowed them here, silent and stone-faced, then vanished. Cassian hadn't seemed disturbed by it, though, so Nesta hadn't asked. Especially not as they waited for Eris to appear at any moment. Nesta feigned gazing toward a bramble of roses, then whipped her head back to Cassian to find him indeed scratching at his arms. "What is wrong with you?" "I hate this place," he muttered, flushing. "Allergies." Nesta swallowed a laugh. "You don't need to hide it from me. In the human realm, I used to get so itchy I had to take two baths a day to get rid of all the pollen." Well, before they'd gone to the cottage. After that, Nesta had been lucky to bathe once a week, thanks to the hassle of heating and hauling so much water to the lone tub in a corner of their bedroom. Sometimes, she and Elain had even shared the same bathwater, drawing straws for who went in second. Nesta's throat constricted, and she surveyed the swaying cherry blossoms overhead. Elain would love this place. So many flowers, all in bloom, so much green--the light, vibrant green of new grass--so many birds singing and such warm, buttery sunshine. Nesta felt like a storm cloud standing amid it all. But Elain ... The Spring Court had been made for someone like her. Too bad her sister refused to see her. Nesta would have told Elain to visit this place. And too bad the lord who ruled these lands was a piece of shit. "Eris is late," Nesta said to Cassian. They'd been waiting ten minutes. "Do you think he's coming?" "He's likely sipping some tea, enjoying the fact that we're here, waiting for him." Cassian considered. "Well, he only knows I'm coming. But he'll enjoy the thought of making me wait." "He's a bastard." The few times she'd met the High Lord of Autumn's son, Nesta had detested the preening, cold-faced male. Exactly the sort of person who would abandon an injured Morrigan in the woods. "Are you talking about me, or the brute beside you?" a deep, smooth voice said from the shadows of a budding dogwood. And there he was, as if her thoughts had conjured him. Eris dressed as immaculately as Rhysand, not a strand of his long red hair out of place. But though Eris's angular features were handsome, no light shone in his eyes. No joy. Those eyes landed on Nesta, raking from her braided hair to her leathers to her boots. "Hello, Nesta Archeron." Nesta met the male's stare. She said nothing, letting cool contempt freeze over her gaze. Eris's mouth quirked upward. But the expression vanished as he turned to Cassian. "I hear you have something to tell me regarding my soldiers." Cassian crossed his arms. "Good news and bad news, Eris. Take your pick." "Bad. Always the bad first." Eris's smile was full of poison. "Most of your soldiers are dead." Eris only blinked. "And the good news?" "Two of them survived." Nesta studied every minute shift on Eris's face: rage glimmering in his eyes, displeasure in his pursed lips, annoyance in the fluttering of a muscle in his jaw. As if countless questions were racing through his mind. Eris's voice remained flat, though. "And who did this?" Cassian grimaced. "Technically, Azriel and I did. Your soldiers were enchanted by Queen Briallyn and Koschei to be mindless killers. They attacked us in the Bog of Oorid, and we were left with no choice but to kill them." "And yet two survived. How convenient. I assume they received Azriel's particular brand of interrogation?" Eris's voice dripped disdain. "We could only manage to contain two," Cassian said tightly. "Under Briallyn's influence, they were practically rabid." "Let's not lie to ourselves. You only bothered to contain two, by the time your brute bloodlust ebbed away." Nesta saw red at the words, and Cassian sucked in a breath. "We did what we could. There were two dozen of them." Eris snorted. "There were certainly more than that, and you could have easily spared more than two. But I don't know why I'd expect someone like you to have done any better." "Do you want me to apologize?" Cassian snarled. Nesta's heart began to pound wildly at the anger darkening his voice, the pain brightening his eyes. He regretted it--he hadn't liked killing those soldiers. "Did you even try to spare the others, or did you just launch right into a massacre?" Eris seethed. Cassian hesitated. Nesta could have sworn she saw the words land their blow. No, Cassian had not hesitated. Nesta knew he hadn't. He would never hesitate to save someone he loved from an enemy. No matter what it cost him. Nesta took one step closer to Eris. "Your soldiers shot an ash arrow through one of Azriel's wings." Eris's teeth flashed. "And did you join in this massacre, too?" "No," she said frankly. "But I wonder: Did Briallyn arm the soldiers with those ash arrows, or did they come from your private armory?" Eris blinked, the only confirmation required. "Such weapons are banned, aren't they?" she asked Cassian, whose features remained taut. The conflagration within her burned hotter, higher. She returned her attention to Eris. If he could toy with Cassian, then she'd return the favor. "Who were you storing those arrows for?" she mused. "Enemies abroad?" She smiled slightly. "Or an enemy at home?" Eris held her stare. "I don't know what you're talking about." Nesta's smile didn't waver. "Would an ash arrow through the heart kill a High Lord?" Eris's face paled. "You're wasting my time." Nesta shrugged. "And you're wasting ours. For all we know, you bespelled your soldiers to kill us. Claimed your hounds found scents at the site of their disappearance that linked it to Briallyn, and then lied about Beron's alliance. Perhaps you even got Morrigan's father to delay his visit to Velaris as a piece in a grand scheme to gain our trust. All part of your game." Cassian's gaze was a physical touch on her face, but she kept her attention on the stiff-backed Eris. "If you want to play warmonger, go right ahead, Eris." Her smile widened. "I like an interesting opponent." "I am not your enemy," Eris spat, and Nesta knew she'd won. From the brush of Cassian's fingers at the small of her back, he knew, too. Cassian said, "I regret that I couldn't save more of your soldiers, Eris. I really do. The remaining two will be sent back to you today, though they remain in the Crown's thrall. But I'm not your enemy, either. Briallyn and Koschei are our enemies--both of ours. If the families of those soldiers need anything, I will gladly give what I can to help them." Something like pride bloomed in her at Cassian's earnest words. He'd give all he had to those families, if it would right this wrong. Eris glanced between them. Noted the hand on her back. What Cassian had left exposed. Eris said to Nesta with a smirk, "You're a pretty little treat. I'd be happy to play any manner of game with you, Nesta Archeron." Cassian's fingers tightened on her back. Eris seemed to sense that, too. Did Cassian have any idea of the things he left vulnerable for people like Eris to strike at? He lived too honestly, too boldly, to notice or care. She couldn't help but admire it. "When you get tired of the animal," Eris said to her, jerking his chin toward Cassian, "come find me. I'll show you how a future High Lord plays." Cassian growled, opening his mouth, but halted. Eris went still as well. Nesta felt it a heartbeat later. The presence creeping toward them on soft paws. Cassian shoved her behind him just as a golden-furred beast with curling horns leaped from behind the brambles, landing in the forest clearing. She'd never forget that beast. How it had broken down the door of their cottage and terrified her to her bones. How all she'd been able to think of was shielding Elain while Feyre had grabbed that knife to face it. Face him. Tamlin. Green eyes assessed them. Marked Eris. Then Cassian. Then her. Tamlin snarled, low and deep, and Cassian's Siphons flared. "We were just leaving," Cassian said with steady calm, hand reaching for Nesta's. He'd launch them into the air. But would he be fast enough to avoid Tamlin's claws? Or power? Tamlin's gaze remained on her. Raging and hateful. This was the male, the beast, her sister had once loved. Had given up everything, including her mortal life, to save. Who had then taken her love and twisted it, nearly breaking Feyre in the process. Until Rhys. Until Cassian and the others had helped bring her back. Helped her learn to love herself once more. Nesta didn't care if he'd come to help during the final battle with Hybern. Tamlin had hurt Feyre. Unforgivably. It had never concerned her before. Irked her, yes, but ... Nesta found her fingers curling. Found her lips peeling back from her teeth as she snarled. Her youngest sister had been taken by this male because Nesta herself hadn't been able to face him. Tamlin had even looked at her and asked if she'd go in Feyre's place. And she had said no, because she was a hateful, horrible coward. She would not be a coward now. Nesta let an ember of her power glow in her eyes. Let Tamlin see it as she said, "You will not touch us." "I have every right to kill trespassers on my lands." The words were guttural, nearly impossible to understand. As if Tamlin had not spoken in a long while. "Are these still your lands?" Nesta asked coolly, stepping out from behind Cassian. "Last I heard, you don't bother to rule them anymore." Eris remained utterly still. He'd been caught meeting with them, she realized. If Tamlin told anyone-- Nesta said, "I suggest you keep your maw shut about this." Tamlin bristled, hackles rising. "You're exactly as nasty as your sister said you were." Nesta laughed. "I'd hate to disappoint." She held his emerald stare, knowing silver flames flickered in her own. "I went into the Cauldron because of you," she said softly, and could have sworn thunder grumbled in the distance. Cassian and Eris faded away into nothing. There was only Tamlin, only this beast, and what he had done to her and her family. "Elain went into the Cauldron because of you," Nesta went on. Her fingertips heated, and she knew if she looked down, she'd find silver embers flaring there. "I don't care how much you apologize or try to atone for it or claim you didn't know the King of Hybern would do such a thing or that you begged him not to do it. You colluded with him. Because you thought Feyre was your property." Nesta pointed at Tamlin. The ground shook. Cassian swore behind her. Tamlin shrank from her outstretched finger, claws digging into the earth. "Put that finger down, you witch." Nesta smiled. "I'm glad you remember what happened to the last person I pointed at." She lowered her arm. "We're going now." She stepped back to where Cassian was already waiting, arms open. He wrapped them around her waist. Nesta glanced to Eris, who gave her a shallow, approving nod, then vanished. Nesta said to Tamlin before they shot into the skies, "Tell anyone you saw us, High Lord, and I'll rip your head from your body, too." Nesta stared into the pit of darkness at the bottom of the library. She'd been unable to sleep, barely able to keep from returning to the encounter with Tamlin all day. Cassian had flown to the river house, and had not returned. Perhaps Rhys had gone to ensure Tamlin's silence about their scheming with Eris. Maybe Rhys would do them all a favor and turn Tamlin's mind into jelly. Nesta rested her arms on the railing of Level Five, letting her head hang. This late, no one was up, and she didn't know where the dormitories were, so she couldn't seek out Gwyn. Not that she'd want to wake her friend. She doubted Gwyn would want to hear her problems anyway. A glass of warm milk appeared on the railing beside her. Nesta peered at the dim library. "Thank you," she said to the House. The Spring Court had felt stagnant. Hollow. Empty despite its growing life. But this House was alive. It welcomed her, wanted her to grow and thrive. It was a place where she might rest or explore, where she could be whoever and whatever she wished. Was that what home was? She had never learned. But this place ... Yes, home might be a good name for it. Perhaps that was what Feyre had felt, too, when she'd left the Spring Court and come to these lands. Perhaps Feyre had fallen in love with this court as much as she had its ruler. Something stirred in the darkness below. Nesta straightened, milk forgotten. There. In the heart of the black pit, like a tendril of smoke ... something moved. It seemed to expand and contract, throbbing a wild beat-- "I thought I'd find you here. Well, either here or the stairs to the city." Cassian's voice sounded behind her, and Nesta whirled. He went on alert, but Nesta glanced over a shoulder toward the darkness. Nothing. It was gone. Or she'd imagined it. "Its nothing," she said as he peered over the railing. "Just shadows." Cassian blew out a breath, leaning against the railing. "Can't sleep?" "I keep thinking about Tamlin." "You did well with him. And you did well against Eris, too. I don't think he'll forget that anytime soon." "He's a snake." "Glad we agree on something." Nesta huffed a laugh. "I didn't appreciate him speaking to you like that." "It's how a lot of people speak to me." "That doesn't make it right." She had spoken to him like that. She had said far worse things to Cassian than Eris had. Her throat tightened. But she said, "I can't believe Feyre ever loved Tamlin." "Tamlin never deserved her." Cassian rested a hand on her back. "No." Nesta again peered into the darkness below. "He didn't." <|title|>Chapter 44 <|startofchapter|>"Someone remind me why this was a good idea?" Gwyn panted beside Nesta, sweat running along her face as they went over their basic sword- work. "Remind me, too," Emerie grunted. Nesta, too winded to speak, simply grunted with her. Cassian chuckled, and the sound raked itself down her body. He'd taken her hand in the library last night, leading her up to her room, his eyes still soft. But that had faded when he'd spied a copy of Gwyn's chapters about the Valkyries on Nesta's desk. She'd been reading about them, she'd explained when he'd picked up the pages and leafed through them. His only answer had been to kiss her deeply before lying on the bed, positioning her above his face so he could feast on her leisurely. Nesta endured all of a minute until she'd needed to touch him, and had pivoted, letting him continue devouring her while she'd stretched down his body and taken him into her mouth. She'd never done that--feasted and been feasted upon--and he'd come on her tongue just before she'd come on his. They'd waited only a short time, panting in silence on her bed, before she climbed over him, stroking him with her hand, then her mouth, and when he was ready, she'd sunk onto him, taking in each marvelous, thick inch. With him stretching and filling her so deliciously, she'd climaxed swiftly. He'd chased her pleasure with his own, gripping her hips and bucking into her, hitting that perfect spot and sending her climaxing again. She'd been slightly, pleasantly sore this morning, and he'd winked at her across the breakfast table, as if aware of how tender certain areas were while sitting. There was no trace of that smug satisfaction now as Cassian said to them, "I'd thought today would be a good day to integrate the eight-pointed star, but if you're already complaining, we can wait until next week." "We're not complaining," Gwyn said, sucking in air. "You're just running us ragged." The newest priestesses working with Az were already wobbling on exhausted legs. Cassian caught Nesta's stare. "Some Valkyrie unit you have." Gwyn whirled on Nesta. "You told him?" "No," Nesta and Cassian said together. Cassian added, "You think I haven't noticed the breathing techniques that let you get that calm, steady look even when me and Az are pissing you off? I sure as hell didn't teach you that. I can recognize Mind-Stilling a mile off." They just gawked at him. Then Gwyn asked, "You know the technique?" "Of course I do. I fought beside the Valkyries in the War." Stunned silence rippled. Nesta had forgotten how old these Fae were, how much Cassian had seen and lived through. She cleared her throat. "You knew the Valkyries personally?" Gwyn let out a high-pitched noise that was nothing but pure excitement. Azriel, on the other side of the ring with the rest of the priestesses, half- turned at the sound, brows high. Cassian flashed a grin. "I fought beside the Valkyries for five battles. But that stopped at the Battle of Meinir Pass." His smile faded. "When most of them died to save it. The Valkyries knew it was a suicide mission from the start." Azriel returned to his charges, but Nesta had a feeling the shadowsinger monitored every word, every gesture from his brother. Even Gwyn stopped smiling. "Why did they fight, then? Everyone there knew it would be a slaughter. But I've never been able to find anything on the politics behind it." "I don't know. I was a grunt for an Illyrian legion; I wasn't privy to any of the leaders' discussions." He looked to Nesta, who was gaping at him. "But I had ... friends who fell that day." The way he hesitated on friends made her wonder if any had been more than that. And even though they were honorable, fallen dead, something ugly twisted in her chest. "The Valkyries fought when even the bravest males would not. The Illyrians tried to forget that. I fought against males who were my superiors, arguing to help the Valkyries. They beat me senseless, chained me to a supply wagon, and left me there. When I came to, the battle was over, the Valkyries slain." This was the male she'd taken to her bed, who'd left again last night without kissing her good-bye. "Why didn't you mention this when you saw the pages about them on my desk?" "You didn't ask." He unsheathed his Illyrian blade. "Enough history." He drew four lines in the dirt, all intersecting to form an eight-pointed star. "This is your map for striking with a sword. These eight maneuvers. You've learned six of them. You'll learn the other two today, and we'll start on the combinations." Gwyn asked, "Why don't we use the Valkyrie techniques, if you admired them so much?" "Because I don't know them." Nesta smirked. "If we are to be Valkyries born again," she said, "maybe we should combine the Illyrian and Valkyrie techniques." She'd meant it in jest, but the words rumbled through the space, as if she'd spoken some great truth, something that made fate sit up. Azriel turned to them fully this time, eyes narrowed. Like those shadows had whispered something to him. A chill breathed down Nesta's spine. Cassian stared into their faces. Like he beheld something he hadn't seen there before. At last, he said thickly, "Today, we learn Illyrian techniques." He nodded to Gwyn. "Tomorrow, you bring me whatever information you have on the Valkyries' style." "It's an enormous amount," Gwyn said. "Merrill is writing a book on it. I could get you a copy of the current manuscript, since it has most of the information in one place." Cassian seemed to gain control of whatever emotion had taken hold of him, for he rubbed his jaw. Nesta's blood thrummed in response. "Something new," he said more to himself than to them. "Something old becoming something new." He grinned again, and Nesta found her mouth twitching to answer with a grin of her own. Especially as Cassian's eyes brightened. "All right, ladies. First lesson about Valkyries: they don't whine about being sweaty." "Valkyries?" Feyre asked from across the dining table in the river house, fork half-raised to her lips. "Truly?" "Truly," Cassian said, sipping from his wine at dinner that evening. He'd come down to the manor to discuss what to do with the weapons Nesta had Made--to learn what Feyre's vote would be. She hadn't hesitated before saying that Nesta should be informed. But when she'd volunteered to tell her, Cassian had stepped in. He'd tell Nesta, when the moment was right. The only one who hadn't voted was Mor, who remained in Vallahan to keep coaxing its rulers to sign the new treaty, her absence marked by a place of honor set for her at the table. "We never heard of them in the human lands," Elain said. She'd been as riveted as Feyre to hear Cassian tell of it: first of Nesta and the others' interest, then of the brief history of the female fighters. "They must have been fearsome creatures." "Some were as lovely as you, Elain," Rhys said from beside Feyre, "from the outside. But once they set foot into the arena of battle, they became as bloodthirsty as Amren." Amren lifted her glass in salute. "I liked those females. Never let a male boss them around--though I could have done without their foolish king. He is as much to blame for their deaths as the Illyrians who walked away during that battle." "I can't argue with that," Cassian said. It had taken him a long, long time to get over that battle. He'd never been back to that pass in the Gollian Mountains, but rumor claimed its rocks remained barren, as if the earth still mourned the females who'd given their lives with no hesitation, who had laughed at death and embraced life so fully. His first lover beyond the Night Court's borders had been from the Valkyries' ranks--a bold-hearted female named Tanwyn with a smile like a storm. She'd ridden into that battle at the head of the Valkyries and had never come out of the pass. Cassian added after a moment, "Nesta would have fit in well with them." "I always thought she was born on the wrong side of the wall," Elain admitted. "She made ballrooms into battlefields and plotted like any general. Like you two," she said, nodding to Cassian, and then, a bit more shyly, to Azriel. Azriel offered her a small smile that Elain quickly looked away from. Cassian tucked away his puzzlement. Lucien was certainly not here to snarl at any male who looked at her for too long. Feyre at last took her hearty bite of food. "Nesta is a wolf who has been locked in a cage her whole life." "I know," Cassian said. She was a wolf who had never learned how to be a wolf, thanks to that cage humans called propriety and society. And like any maltreated animal, she bit anyone who came near. Good thing he liked being bitten. Good thing he savored the bruises and scratches she left on his body every night, and that her unleashing when he was buried in her made him want to answer it with his own. Elain leaned forward. "You only think you know--you haven't seen her on the dance floor. That's when Nesta truly lets the wolf roam free. When there's music." "Really?" Nesta had told him once, when he'd dragged her out of a particular seedy tavern, that she'd been there for the music. He'd ignored her, thinking it an excuse. "Yes," Elain said. "She was trained in dance from a very young age. She loves it, and music. Not in the way I enjoy a waltz or gavotte, but in the way that performers make an art of it. Nesta could bring an entire ballroom to a halt when she danced with someone." Cassian set down his wine. "She mentioned dance lessons to me a few weeks ago." He'd assumed those lessons were why Nesta had quickly mastered her footwork and balance, despite her initial difficulty. The muscle memory must have remained intact. But if dance had been drilled into her as ruthlessly as he'd learned to fight-- "She wouldn't have gone into much detail about it," Elain said. "Nesta was only fourteen at the last ball we went to before--well, before we were poor ..." Elain shook her head. "Another young heiress was at the ball, and she positively hated me. She was several years older, and I'd never done anything to provoke her hatred, but I think ..." "She was jealous of your beauty," Amren said, an amused smile on her red lips. Elain blushed. "Perhaps." It was definitely that. Even though Elain would have been barely thirteen at the time. "Well, Nesta saw how she treated me, her casual cruelties and snubs, and bided her time. Waited until that ball, when a handsome duke from the continent was there to find a bride. His family had run out of money, which was why he'd deigned to come over at all--to nab a rich bride to refill their estate's coffers. Nesta knew the heiress had her sights set on him. The girl had bragged about it to all of us in the powder room at every ball for weeks leading up to it. "Nesta spent a small fortune on her gown and jewels for that night. Our father was always too scared of her to say no, and that night ... Well, she truly looked the part of the daughter of the Prince of Merchants. An amethyst silk gown with gold thread, diamonds and pearls at her neck and ears ..." Elain sighed. Such wealth. Cassian had never realized what wealth they'd possessed and lost. "The entire ball stopped when Nesta entered," Elain said. "She made an entrance of it, perfectly cool and aloof, even at fourteen. She barely glanced the duke's way. Because she'd learned about him as well. Knew he grew bored of anyone that chased him. And knew that the wealth on her that night dwarfed anything that heiress was wearing." Amren was grinning now. "Nesta tried to win a duke out of spite? At fourteen?" Elain didn't smile. "She lured him into asking her for a dance with a few well-placed looks across the ballroom. The same waltz that heiress wanted for herself, had boasted would be all she needed to secure his marriage bid. Nesta took that dance from her. And then took the duke from her, too. Nesta danced that night like she was one of you." "If you've seen Cassian's dancing," Rhys muttered, "that's not saying much." Cassian flipped off his High Lord as Feyre and Az chuckled. Elain continued, voice hushed with near-reverence, "The duke was vain, and Nesta played into that. The entire room came to a standstill. Their dancing was that good; she was that beautiful. And when it ended ... I knew she was an artist then. The same way Feyre is. But what Feyre does with paint, that's what Nesta did with music and dance. Our mother saw it when we were children, and honed it into a weapon. All so Nesta might one day marry a prince." Cassian froze. A prince--was that what Nesta wanted? His stomach clenched. "What happened to the duke?" Azriel asked. Elain grimaced. "He proposed marriage the next morning." Rhys choked on his wine. "She was fourteen." "I told you: Nesta is a very good dancer. But that was what my father said--she was too young. It was a graceful exit, since my father, despite his faults, knew Nesta well. He knew she had taunted that duke into making a marriage offer just to punish the heiress for her cruelty toward me. Nesta had no interest in him--knew she was far too young. Even if the duke seemed more interested in just ... reserving her until she was old enough." Elain shuddered with distaste. "But I think some part of Nesta believed she would indeed marry a prince one day. So the duke went home with no bride, and that heiress ... Well, she was one of the people who delighted in our misfortunes." "I'd forgotten," Feyre murmured. "About this, and about her dancing." "Nesta never spoke of it afterward," Elain said. "I just observed." Nesta was wrong, Cassian realized, to think Elain as loyal and loving as a dog. Elain saw every single thing Nesta had done, and understood why. Amren asked pointedly, "So your mother twisted Nesta's creative joys into a social climber's arsenal?" Feyre cut in, "Our mother was not what one would call a pleasant person. Nesta has made her own choices, but our mother laid the groundwork." Elain nodded, folding her hands in her lap. "So I'm very pleased to hear of this Valkyrie business. I'm happy that Nesta finds interest in something again. And might channel all of ... that into it." That, Cassian knew, meant her rage, her fierce and unyielding loyalty to those she loved, her wolf's instincts and ability to kill. They moved on to far merrier subjects, but Cassian mulled it over throughout the evening. The fighting was only one part of it. The training would sustain her, funnel that rage, but there had to be more. There had to be joy. There had to be music. <|title|>Chapter 45 <|startofchapter|>"I think the Valkyries were even more sadistic than the Illyrians," Gwyn grunted, and Nesta could see the priestess's legs shaking as she held the pose that had been illustrated in one of her many research volumes. "No amount of Mind-Stilling will get me through these exercises. What was that phrase they used? I am the rock against which the surf crashes. A rock never had to hold a lunge, though." "This is outrageous," Emerie agreed, teeth gritted. Cassian idly flipped a long dagger in his hand. "I warned you that they were stone-cold warriors." Nesta panted through her teeth in a steady rhythm. "My legs might break." "You three still have ... twenty seconds." Cassian looked to the clock Azriel had dragged up from the House and left on the water station table. The shadowsinger was away today, but the priestesses he usually trained had been left with a strict lesson plan. Nesta's legs wobbled and burned, but she rooted her strength through her toes, focusing on her breathing, her breathing, her breathing, as the Mind-Stilling had bade her to do. She sought that place of calm, where she might be beyond her thoughts of pain and her shaking body, and it was so close, so near, if she could just concentrate, breathe more deeply-- "Time," Cassian declared, and the three of them collapsed onto the dirt. He laughed again. "Pathetic." "You try it," Gwyn panted, lying prone on the earth. "I don't think even you could survive that." "Thanks to the passages you sent me last night, I was here at dawn doing the exercises myself," he said. Nesta raised her brows. He hadn't been at dinner, and hadn't sought her out, but she'd been tired enough after a few nights of little sleep that she hadn't minded. "I figured if I'm going to torture you three, I should at least be able to back it up." He winked. "For exactly the moment when you groused that I should suffer alongside you." "No wonder you look like that," Emerie muttered, turning over to lie on her back and gaze at the crisp autumn sky. The days had given up any attempt at being warm, though true cold had not yet set in. The sun offered a kernel of heat against the chill breeze, a buttery, bone-heating warmth that Nesta savored as she, too, lay on her back. "I'll take that as a compliment." His grin tightened something low in Nesta's gut. He caught her staring and that grin became a little more knowing. But he just said to her, "If you were to name a sword, what would you call it?" Gwyn answered, though she hadn't been asked, "Silver Majesty." Emerie snorted. "Really?" Gwyn demanded, "What would you call it?" Emerie considered. "Foe Slayer, or something. Something intimidating." "That's no better!" Nesta's mouth tugged upward at their teasing. Gwyn looked to her, teal eyes bright. "Which one is worse: Foe Slayer or Silver Majesty?" "Silver Majesty," Nesta said, and Emerie crowed with triumph. Gwyn waved a hand, booing. "What would you call it?" Cassian asked Nesta again. "Why do you want to know?" "Humor me." She lifted a brow. But then said with all sincerity. "Killer." His brows flattened. Nesta shrugged. "I don't know. Is it necessary to name a sword?" "Just tell me: If you had to name a sword, what would you call it?" "Are you getting her one as a Winter Solstice present?" Emerie asked. "No." Nesta hid her smile. She loved this--when the three of them ganged up on him, like lionesses around a very muscled, very attractive carcass. "Then why keep asking?" Gwyn said. Cassian scowled. "Curiosity." But his jaw tightened. It wasn't that. There was something else. Why would he want her to name a sword? "Back to work," he said, clapping his hands. "For all that sass, you're doing double time on the Valkyrie lunge hold." Emerie and Gwyn groaned, but Nesta surveyed Cassian for another moment before following their lead. She was still mulling it over when they finished two hours later, drenched in sweat, legs wobbling. Emerie and Gwyn picked up their earlier conversation and aimed for the water station. Nesta watched the two of them go, then turned to Cassian. "Why were you pestering me about naming a sword?" His eyes remained on Gwyn and Emerie. "I just wanted to know what you'd name one." "That's not an answer. Why do you want to know?" He crossed his arms, then uncrossed them. "Do you remember when we went to the blacksmith?" "Yes. He's giving me a blade for Winter Solstice?" "He's given you three. The ones you touched." She arched an eyebrow. He tapped his foot on the ground. "When you hammered those blades, you imbued them--the two swords and the dagger--with your power. The Cauldron's power. They're now magic blades. And I'm not talking nice, pretty magic. I'm talking big, ancient magic that hasn't been seen in a long, long time. There are no magic weapons left. None. They were either lost or destroyed or dumped in the sea. But you just Made three of them. You created a new Dread Trove. You could create even more objects, if you wished." Her brows rose higher with each absurd word. "I Made three magic weapons?" "We don't know yet what manner of magic they have, but yes." She angled her head. Emerie and Gwyn halted their chatting at the water station, as if they could see or sense the shift in her. And it wasn't the fact that she'd Made these weapons that hit her like a blow. "Who is 'we'?" "What?" "You said 'We don't know what manner of magic they have.' Who is 'we'?" "Rhys and Feyre and the others." "And how long have all of you known about this?" He winced as he realized his error. "I ... Nesta ..." "How long?" Her voice became sharp as glass. The priestesses were watching, and she didn't care. He did, apparently. "This isn't the place to talk about it." "You're the one trying to coax a name out of me in the middle of training!" She gestured to the ring. Her blood pounded in her ears, and Cassian's face grew pained. "This isn't coming out the way it should. We argued about whether to tell you, but we took a vote and it went in your favor. Because we trust you. I just ... hadn't gotten a chance to bring it up yet." "There was a possibility you wouldn't even tell me? You all sat around and judged me, and then you voted?" Something deep in her chest cracked to know that every horrible thing about her had been analyzed. "It ... Fuck." Cassian reached for her, but she stepped back. Everyone was Staring now. "Nesta, this isn't ..." "Who. Voted. Against me." "Rhys and Amren." It landed like a physical blow. Rhys came as no surprise. But Amren, who had always understood her more than the others; Amren who'd been unafraid of her; Amren with whom she'd quarreled so badly ... Some small part of her had hoped Amren wouldn't hate her forever. Her head went quiet. Her body went quiet. Cassian's eyes widened. "Nesta--" "I'm fine," she said coldly. "I don't care." She let him see her fortify those steel walls within her mind. Used every bit of Mind-Stilling she'd practiced with Gwyn to become calm, focused, steady. Breathing in through her nose, out through her mouth. She made a show of rolling her shoulders, of approaching Emerie and Gwyn, whose faces bunched with concern in a way Nesta knew she didn't deserve, in a way that she knew would one day vanish, when they, too, realized what a wretch she was. When Amren told them what a pathetic waste of life she was, or they heard it from someone else, and they ceased being her friends. She wondered if they'd even say it to her face, or if they'd just disappear. "Nesta," Cassian said again. But she left the ring without looking back at him. Emerie was on her heels instantly, trailing her down the stairs. "What's wrong?" "Nothing," Nesta said, her own voice foreign to her ears. "Court business." "Are you all right?" Gwyn asked, a step behind Emerie. No. She couldn't stop the roaring in her head, the cracking in her chest. "Yes," she lied, and didn't look back as she hit the landing and vanished down the hall. Nesta made it to her bedroom, where she ran the bath. She knew Cassian would come by. So she stood by the tub, the water gushing from the spout, while he knocked on her door. She waited until she sensed him leave, giving up on her as everyone else had done, and then shut off the flow. She asked the House, "Is he gone?" The door opened in answer. "Thank you." She strode into the empty hallway. Perhaps the House hid her from sight, for she saw and scented no glimpse of Cassian as she hurried down the short flight of stairs near her room. Down the hall. Right through the archway into that long stairwell. Then and only then did she let her fury out. Then and only then did she drop that coldness and give herself over to the raging of her heart. Amren had deemed her so untrustworthy, so awful, that knowing she had this world-altering gift would be dangerous. Amren had spoken to the others about it, and they had voted on it. Down and down and down. Step to step to step. Around and around and around. She didn't count the stairs. Didn't feel her legs moving. There was only the roaring of her blood and the roaring in her head and the crack down the center of her chest. No amount of Mind-Stilling could calm it, smother it. The ground grew nearer. She couldn't think around her fury, that pain. Couldn't think, only move. The stairwell turned warmer, farther away from the cold wind above. Amren had entirely given up on her. The debate about sending her up here had been different--Nesta knew that debate had been out of a desire to help her. She could acknowledge that now. This debate had been out of hatred and fear of her. The tiled rooftops became clear. Her legs were shaking. She didn't feel them. Didn't feel anything but that molten rage as the stairs suddenly stopped and she found herself before a door. It opened before her fingers could touch the handle. Sunlight flooded the stairwell, revealing cobblestones beyond. Rage rippling like a storm around her, Nesta stepped back into Velaris at last. <|title|>Chapter 46 <|startofchapter|>She didn't note the city around her, the people who either beheld her face and kept well away or simply went about their business. Didn't note the vibrant oranges and reds and yellows of the autumn trees or the sparkling blue of the Sidra as she crossed one of the countless bridges spanning its winding body, aiming for its western bank. Nesta yielded to her fury. Later, she would have no memory of racing up the steps to the loft. No memory of the walk over before she slammed a hand into the wooden door. It shattered beneath her palm, wards fracturing like glass. Amren and Varian were in bed, the petite female naked as she rode the Prince of Adriata. Both of them halted, Amren twisting toward the door, Varian bolting upright, a shield of water coming around them as Nesta stepped into the room and growled, "You. You thought I shouldn't even be told what my power can do." Amren moved with the swiftness of the High Fae, leaping off Varian, who grabbed a sheet to cover himself as she slung a silk robe around her body. That shimmering wall of water made it seem as if they were beneath the ocean's surface. Amren shot Varian a look. "Drop it." He obeyed, sliding from the bed and shoving his long, muscled legs into his pants. Nesta snarled at him, "Get out." But the Summer Court prince watched Amren, his face tight with concern. He'd stay, go down defending her. Nesta snorted, bitterness coating her tongue. Once, Amren had been that person for her--the person she knew would defend her in a fight, would speak for her. Amren nodded to him, and Varian threw Nesta a warning glare before hurrying from the room. Presumably to tell the others, but Nesta didn't care. Not as Amren said, "I suppose that loudmouthed bastard told you more than was necessary." "You voted against me," she said, her cold voice belying the crack in her chest. "You have done nothing to prove you are able to handle such a terrible power," Amren said with equal iciness. "On that barge, you told me as much when you walked away from any attempt at mastering it. I offered to teach you more, and you walked away." "I walked away because you chose my sister." Just as Elain had done. Amren had been her friend, her ally, and yet in the end, it hadn't mattered one bit. She'd picked Feyre. "I didn't choose anyone, you spoiled girl," Amren snapped. "I told you that Feyre had requested you and I work together again, and you somehow twist that into me siding with her?" Nesta said nothing. "I told them to leave you alone for months. I refused to speak about you with them. And then the moment I realized my behavior was not helping you, that maybe your sister was right, I somehow betrayed you?" Nesta shook. "You know how I feel about Feyre." "Yes, poor Nesta, with a younger sister who loves her so dearly she's willing to do anything to get her help." Nesta blocked out the memory of Tamlin in his beast form, how she had wanted to rip him limb from limb. She was no better than him, in the end. "Feyre doesn't love me." She didn't deserve Feyre's love. Just as Tamlin hadn't. Amren barked out a laugh. "That you believe Feyre doesn't only proves you're unworthy of your power. Anyone that willfully blind cannot be trusted. You would be a walking nightmare with those weapons." "It's different now." The words rang hollow. Was it any different? Was she any different than she'd been this summer, when she and Amren had fought on the barge, and Amren's utter disappointment in her failure to be anything had surfaced at last? Amren smiled, as if she knew that, too. "You can train as hard as you want, fuck Cassian as often as you want, but it isn't going to fix what's broken if you don't start reflecting." "Don't preach at me. You--" She pointed at Amren, and could have sworn the female stepped out of the line of fire. Just as Tamlin had done. As if Amren also remembered that the last time Nesta had pointed at an enemy, it had ended with his severed head in her hands. A joyless laugh broke from her. "You think I'd mark you with a death-promise?" "You nearly did with Tamlin the other day." So Cassian had told them all about that, too. "But I'll say to you again what I said on that barge: I think you have powers that you still do not understand, respect, or control." "How dare you assume you know what is best for me?" When Amren didn't answer, Nesta hissed, "You were my friend." Amren's teeth flashed. "Was I? I don't think you know what that word means." Her chest ached, as if that invisible fist had punched her once again. Steps thudded beyond the shattered door, and she braced for Cassian to come roaring in-- But it was Feyre. Paint splattered her casual clothes; a smear of white graced her freckled cheekbone. Varian must have run half-naked through the streets to reach her studio. Feyre panted, "Stop this." Whether Feyre noted or cared about the splinters and debris on the floor, she didn't let on as she moved closer. Feyre pleaded, "Nesta, it should not have come out as it did." "Did Cassian tell you that?" He'd gone to Feyre, rather than here? "No, but I can guess as much. He didn't want to keep anything from you." "My issue isn't with Cassian." Nesta leveled her stare at Amren. "I trusted you to have my back." "I stopped having your back the moment you decided to use that loyalty as a Shield against everyone else." Nesta snarled, but Feyre stepped between them, hands raised. "This conversation ends now. Nesta, go back to the House. Amren, you ..." She hesitated, as if considering the wisdom of ordering Amren around. Feyre finished carefully, "You stay here." Nesta let out a low laugh. "You are her High Lady. You don't need to cater to her. Not when she now has less power than any of you." Feyre's eyes blazed. "Amren is my friend, and has been a member of this court for centuries. I offer her respect." "Ts it respect that she offers you?" Nesta spat. "Is it respect that your mate offers you?" Feyre went still. Amren warned, "Don't you say one more fucking word, Nesta Archeron." Feyre asked, "What do you mean?" And Nesta didn't care. Couldn't think around the roaring. "Have any of them told you, their respected High Lady, that the babe in your womb will kill you?" Amren barked, "Shut your mouth!" But her order was confirmation enough. Face paling, Feyre whispered again, "What do you mean?" "The wings," Nesta seethed. "The boy's Illyrian wings will get stuck in your Fae body during the labor, and it will kill you both." Silence rippled through the room, the world. Feyre breathed, "Madja just said the labor would be risky. But the Bone Carver ... The son he showed me didn't have wings." Her voice broke. "Did he only show me what I wanted to see?" "I don't know," Nesta said. "But I do know that your mate ordered everyone not to inform you of the truth." She turned to Amren. "Did you all vote on that, too? Did you talk about her, judge her, and deem her unworthy of the truth? What was your vote, Amren? To let Feyre die in ignorance?" Before Amren could reply, Nesta turned back to her sister. "Didn't you question why your precious, perfect Rhysand has been a moody bastard for weeks? Because he knows you will die. He knows, and yet he still didn't tell you." Feyre began shaking. "If I die ..." Her gaze drifted to one of her tattooed arms. She lifted her head, eyes bright with tears as she asked Amren, "You ... all of you knew this?" Amren threw a withering glare in Nesta's direction, but said, "We did not wish to alarm you. Fear can be as deadly as any physical threat." "Rhys knew?" Tears spilled down Feyre's cheeks, smearing the paint splattered there. "About the threat to our lives?" She peered down at herself, at the tattooed hand cradling her abdomen. And Nesta knew then that she had not once in her life been loved by her mother as much as Feyre already loved the boy growing within her. It broke something in Nesta--broke that rage, that roaring--seeing those tears begin to fall, the fear crumpling Feyre's paint-smeared face. She had gone too far. She ... Oh, gods. Amren said, "I think it is best, girl, if you speak to Rhysand about this." Nesta couldn't bear it--the pain and fear and love on Feyre's face as she caressed her stomach. Amren growled at Nesta, "I hope you're content now." Nesta didn't respond. Didn't know what to say or do with herself. She simply turned on her heel and ran from the apartment. Cassian had gone to the river house. That had been his third mistake of the day. The first had been how clumsy he'd been in asking about a sword name, prompting Nesta's suspicion. He hadn't been able to lie to her, so he'd told her everything. The second mistake had been letting Nesta hide in her room and not barging in to speak to her. Letting her take a bath, thinking it'd cool her off. He'd done the same, and when he'd emerged, he'd followed her scent to the floor with the exterior stairs, where the door stood open. He had no idea if she had made it out or if she'd collapsed within, so he'd taken the steps, too. All ten thousand of them, her scent fresh and furious. She'd made it to the bottom. The door had been left open. He'd launched skyward, knowing he'd have trouble tracking her scent in the bustling city, hoping to spot her from the air. He assumed Amren was working at the river house, so that was where he'd gone. Only Amren wasn't there. And neither was Nesta. He'd reached Rhys's study when word came. Not from a messenger, but from Feyre--mind to mind with her mate. Rhys was at his desk, face tight as he silently spoke to her. Cassian saw that look, knew who he spoke to, and went still. Neither was here, which meant they were probably at Amren's apartment, and if Feyre was giving a report ... Cassian whirled for the doors, knowing he could be there in a two- minute flight, praying he'd be fast enough-- "Cassian." Rhys's voice was a thing of nightmares, of the darkness between the stars. Cassian froze at that voice he'd so rarely heard, and never once directed at himself. "What happened?" Rhys's face was wholly calm. But death--black, raging death--lay in his eyes. Not a star or shimmer of violet remained. Rhys said in that voice that was like hell embodied, "Nesta saw fit to inform Feyre of the risk to her and the babe." Cassian's heart began thundering, even as it splintered. Rhys held his stare, and it was all Cassian could do to weather it as his brother, his High Lord said, "Get Nesta out of this city. Right now." Rhys's power rumbled in the room like a rising storm. "Before I fucking kill her." <|title|>Chapter 47 <|startofchapter|>Cassian found Nesta sprinting down a side street, as if she suspected that Rhysand was about to set out on a hunt that only her spilled blood could halt. But he knew she only ran from what she had done, ran from herself. Ran toward one of the taverns she favored so much. Cassian didn't give Nesta the chance to see him as he soared down the alley, snatched her around the waist and beneath the knees, and swept them into the sky. She didn't fight him, didn't say a word. Just lay in his arms, her face cold against his chest. Cassian soared over the House of Wind to find Azriel there, hovering in place, a heavy pack in his hand. Whether that had been from a separate warning from Rhys, or Az's own shadows whispering, he didn't know. Cassian grabbed the pack, looping it around a wrist and grunting against its weight as he kept hold of Nesta. Az didn't say anything as Cassian careened past, into the autumn skies. And did not dare look back at the city behind him. There were no sounds in her head, her body. She knew Cassian held her, knew they flew for hours and hours, and she didn't care. She had done an unforgivable thing. She deserved to be turned into bloody mist by Rhysand. Wished Cassian had not come to save her. They flew into the mountains until the sun sank behind them. By the time they landed, their surroundings were veiled in darkness. Cassian grimaced as he alit, as if every part of him hurt, and dumped the pack Azriel had given them at his feet. "We'll camp here tonight," he said quietly--coldly. She didn't want to speak. Resolved not to say another word for the rest of her life. "I'll make a fire," he went on, and there was nothing kind in his face. She couldn't stand it. So she turned away, surveying the small area where he'd landed--a flat bit of dry earth just under the overhang of a black boulder. In silence, she walked to the deepest part of the overhang. In silence, she lay down upon the hard, dusty earth, using her arm for a pillow, and curled herself toward the rock wall. She closed her eyes and willed herself to ignore the snapping and cracking of the wood as the fire consumed it, willed herself to melt into the earth, into the mountain, and disappear forever. Cassian. Feyre's voice filled Cassian's mind, pulling him from where he'd been watching the stars appear over the sprawling view. He'd flown Nesta to the Sleeping Mountains, the range that separated Illyria from Velaris. They were smaller peaks, not yet in winter's grasp, with plenty of rivers and game to hunt. Cassian. I forgot you can mind-speak. Her laugh sounded. I can't decide whether I should be insulted or not. Perhaps I should be using the daemati gifts more often. She paused before saying, Are you all right? I should be asking you that. Rhysand overreacted. He completely and utterly overreacted. Cassian shook his head, though Feyre couldn't see it. I'm sorry you had to learn of it. I'm not. I'm furious with all of you. I understand why you didn't tell me, but I'm furious. Well, we're furious with Nesta. She had the courage to tell me the truth. She told you the truth to hurt you. Perhaps. But she was the only one who said anything. Cassian sighed through his nose. She ... He thought it over. I think she saw the parallels between your situations and, in her own way, decided to avenge both of you. That's my feeling, too. Rhys disagrees. I wish you'd found out a different way. Well, I didn't. But we'll face it together. All of us. How can you be so calm about this? The alternative is fear and panic. I will not let my son feel those things. I will fight for him, for us, until I no longer can. Cassian's throat tightened. We'll fight for you, too. I know. Feyre paused again. Rhys had no right to chase you from the city, or to threaten Nesta. He has realized that, and apologized. I want you to come back home. Both of you. Where did you even head off to? The wilderness. Cassian looked over a shoulder, to where Nesta had been asleep for the past few hours, curled into a tight ball against the wall of rock. I think we'll stay out here for a few days. We're going to hike. Nesta has never been ona hike in her life. I guarantee she will hate it. Then tell Rhys this is her punishment. Because Rhys, despite apologizing for his threats, would still be furious. Tell him that Nesta and I are going to hike, and she's going to hate it, but she comes home when I decide she's ready to come home. Feyre was quiet for a long minute. He says that he knows he's supposed to say that's unnecessary, but to tell you he's secretly delighted. Good. I am secretly glad to hear that. Feyre laughed, and the sound was proof that she might have been hurt, startled by the news, but she was indeed adapting to it. Would not let it make her cower and cry. He didn't know why he'd expected any less of her. Feyre said, Please take care of her, Cassian. And yourself. Cassian glanced to the sleeping female nearly hidden in the shadows of the rock. I will. <|title|>Chapter 48 <|startofchapter|>"Get up." Nesta tensed, cracking open an eye against the blinding brightness of dawn. Cassian stood above her, a plate of what looked like mushrooms and toast in one hand. Her entire body ached from the hardness of the ground and the chill of the night. She'd barely slept, had mostly lain there, staring at the rock, willing herself to ignore the sounds of the fire, wishing to disappear into nothing. She eased into a sitting position, and he shoved the plate toward her. "Eat. We've got a long day ahead." She lifted her eyes, heavy and aching, to his face. There was nothing warm in it. No challenge or light. Just solid, stone- cold warrior. Cassian said, "We'll be hiking from dawn until dusk, only two stops throughout the day. So eat." It didn't matter. Whether she ate or slept or hiked. Any of it. But Nesta forced herself to eat the food he'd prepared, not speaking as he doused the fire he'd built, focusing on anything but the crack of the logs. Cassian swiftly packed the few cooking supplies, along with the rest of the food, into the canvas bag. He picked it up, muscles shifting in his forearm with the weight, and walked to her before dumping it between her feet. "I can't fit a pack that big on my back with the wings. So you'll be carrying it." Had Azriel known that? From the icy, amused gleam in Cassian's eye, she thought yes. Nesta finished her food and had nothing to wash her plate with, so she shoved it into the pack. He said, "You can wash the dishes when we get to the Gerthys River at lunch. It's a six-hour trek from here." She didn't care. Let him drive her into the ground, let him make her walk and act the servant. It wouldn't fix anything. Wouldn't fix her. Nesta stood, joints popping and body stiff. She didn't bother to reweave her braid. "You can see to your needs around the corner." He nodded toward the slight curve in the cliff face. "No one is out here." She did as he said. When she returned, he only nodded toward the pack. "Pick it up." Nesta grunted as she did. It had to be at least a third of her weight. Her back nearly bowed as she hefted it onto her shoulders, but she got it on, wriggling to adjust it. She fiddled with the straps and buckles until it was snug to her spine, the weight balanced across her chest and hips. Cassian apparently decided that she'd done a decent job. "Let's go." Nesta let him lead the way, and within ten minutes, her breathing became labored, her legs burning as Cassian stalked up the hillside, cutting along the mountain's face. He didn't speak to her, and she didn't speak to him. The day was as crisp as one could ever wish, the mountains around them vibrant green, the teal rivers so clear that even from high above, she could see the white stones lining their beds. Nesta gave herself over to it, the aching of her body, the panting of her breath--so sharp it was like glass--the roaring thoughts. The sun arced across the sky, wringing the sweat from her brow, her neck. Her hair became soaked with it. Still she walked, trailing Cassian farther up the peak. He reached a rocky outcropping, glanced over a shoulder once to make sure she was behind, then disappeared--presumably going downward. She reached the outcropping and beheld just how downward it was. He'd mentioned stopping at a river. Well, far below and ahead lay a broad band of a river, half-shrouded in trees. It didn't look like it would take hours to reach, yet ... Cassian was walking across the mountain, rather than going straight down. No one would be able to directly descend without tumbling to their death. An entirely different set of muscles soon began to protest at the descent. It was worse than going upward, she realized--now it felt as if the pack were determined to tip her forward and send her falling into the valley and river. Cassian didn't bother to carefully pick his steps amongst the grasses and small stones like she did. He, at least, had the reassurance of wings. This high up, the clouds drifted past like idle watchers, none merciful enough to offer shade against the blazing sun. Nesta's legs shook, but she kept moving. Gripped the straps of the pack where they rested against her chest, and used her arms to ballast its weight. She followed Cassian, down the mountain, step to step, hour by hour. She walked, one foot after another, and did not say anything at all. E: They halted for lunch at the river. If hard cheese and bread could be considered lunch. Nesta only cared that it filled her aching belly. Only cared that the river before them was clear and clean, and she was parched. She collapsed on its grassy bank, kneeling to bury her face in it. She gasped into the shock of cold, then rose, lifting water to her mouth with a cupped palm again and again, swallowing and swallowing. She pulled back from the river to lie on her side, her breathing still heavy. "You have thirty minutes," Cassian said from where he sat in the tall, swaying grass, sipping from his canteen. "Use it however you wish." She said nothing. Even nodding felt like too much. He opened the pack and chucked a canteen to her. "Fill this. If you faint, you might fall off the mountain and break every bone in your body." She didn't look at him. Didn't let him see the word in her eyes. Good. He went still, though. His next words were gentler--and she resented them, too. "Rest up." Cassian knew that Nesta often hated herself. But he'd never known she hated herself enough to want to ... not exist anymore. He'd seen her expression when he mentioned the threat of falling. And he knew going back to Velaris wouldn't save her from that look. He couldn't save her from that look, either. Only Nesta could save herself from that feeling. He let her rest for the thirty minutes he'd promised, and perhaps he was a little pissed at her still, because he merely said, "Let's go," before starting off again. She followed in that heavy, brimming silence. As quiet as a trailing packhorse. He knew these mountains well enough from flying over them for centuries: shepherds lived here, usually ordinary faeries who preferred the solitude of the towering green and brownish-black stones to more populated areas. The peaks weren't as brutal and sharp as those in Illyria, but there was a presence to them that he couldn't quite explain. Mor had once told him that long ago, these lands had been used for healing. That people injured in body and spirit had ventured to these hills, the lake they were now two and a half days from reaching, to recover. Perhaps that was why he'd come. Some instinct had remembered the healing, felt this land's slumbering heart, and decided to bring Nesta here. Mile after mile, her silence like a looming wraith behind him, Cassian wondered if it would be enough. <|title|>Chapter 49 <|startofchapter|>They were halfway up a mountain that had looked like a mere hill from a distance when Cassian said from ahead, "We camp here for the night." He'd stopped at an outlook over the mountainside, the nearest peak so close she could have hit it with a stone, separated only by another river snaking far below. The ground was pale and dusty, and most of all, it was flat. Nesta said nothing as she staggered up to level ground, legs giving out at last, and sprawled onto the dirt. It bit into her cheek, but she didn't care, not as she breathed and breathed, her body trembling. She wouldn't move until dawn. Not even to use the bathroom. She'd rather wet herself than have to move another muscle. Cassian said from across the small site, "Take off the pack before you pass out so I can at least cook myself dinner." His words were cold, distant. He'd barely spoken to her all day. She deserved it--deserved worse. The thought had her unclipping the straps from where they lay across her hips and chest. The pack thudded to the earth, and she twisted to nudge it toward him with a foot. Her leg trembled with the movement. But she made herself back up, until she was leaning against a small boulder. He grabbed the pack with only a grunt, as if she hadn't been sweating and shaking under its weight all day. Then he strode off into the nearby brush, the knee-high grasses and bushes rustling. The wind murmured, wending between the peaks. Shadows slowly crept over the craggy sides of the mountains, the lingering sun casting their upper limits in gold, the chill deepening with each inch yielded to the rising dark. The river roared down the mountainside, a constant rushing that she'd heard throughout the day as they walked, its many rapids just barely visible from the outlook. Even here, with the light fading, the river's colors shifted from slate to jade to pine as it wandered between the peaks along the valley floor. It was all so still, yet watchful, somehow. As if she were surrounded by something ancient and half-awake. As if each peak had its own moods and preferences, like whether the clouds clung to or avoided them, or trees lined their sides or left them bare. Their shapes were so odd and long that they looked as if behemoths had once lain down beside the rivers, pulled a rumpled blanket over themselves, and fallen asleep forever. The thought of sleep must have lured her into it, for the next thing she knew, the world was dark, save for the stars and the nearly full moon, so bright that a fire hadn't been needed. Though she could have used its warmth. Cassian lay a few feet away, his back to her, the moonlight gilding his wings. He'd left her a plate of food--bread and hard cheese and some sort of dried meat. She didn't touch it, though. Ignored the grumble in her stomach. She just cracked her stiff neck, wrapped a blanket around herself, and lay upon the ground. She slid her arm again beneath her head and closed her eyes against the cold. For the next two days, she stared at the back of Cassian's head. For the next two days, she did not speak. Every pebble and stone seemed to be on a quest to trip her or twist her ankle or work its way inside her boots. Afternoon was approaching on the following day, clouds drifting just above the peaks on a swift wind, when her head began pounding. The sunlight turned too bright; her sweat stung. Despite days of walking, they had only cleared a few of the peaks. Mountains that Cassian sailed over when flying were endless on foot. How he selected the right path, she didn't ask. Where they were going, she didn't ask, either. She just followed him, eyes fixed on his back. That sight blurred as her head, her whole body swayed a little. She tried to swallow and found her throat so dry her tongue had stuck to the roof of her mouth. She peeled it free. Water--when had she last had a sip of water? Her canteen was at the top of her pack, but to halt, to pull it out ... She didn't feel like unbuckling her straps to drop the bag. Like signaling to him that she needed to pause. Last night had been the same as the previous one: she had reached their camp, collapsed, and barely been able to remove the pack before falling asleep. She woke later to find a plate of cold food beside her, covered with a thin cloth against the elements. She ate while he slept, then closed her eyes again. Only sheer exhaustion could summon the oblivion she craved. Every time they stopped throughout the day, she was so tired she fell to her knees and dumped the pack. And during the pause in motion, she was so weary she couldn't think about the ruin she'd made of herself, the ruin she'd always been, deep down. No training, no learning about the Valkyries and their Mind-Stilling would help. Nothing would help. So she could wait for the water. Because to stop was to allow those thoughts in, even if they trailed behind her like leaden shadows, heavier than the pack. Her ankle twisted on a loose stone, and she gritted her teeth against the lash of pain, but continued. Cassian hadn't so much as stumbled once. She would know: she watched him all day long. But he stumbled now. Nesta lurched forward, but-- No. That was her. She was the one falling. Cassian was halfway up the dried riverbed when stones crunched and clacked behind him. He whirled to find Nesta facedown. Not moving. He swore, rushing down the stony path, and slid to his knees before her. The sharp stones bit his legs through his pants, but he didn't care, not as he turned her over, his heart thundering. She'd fainted. His relief was a primal thing in him, settling, but-- He hadn't looked back at her in hours. Filmy white crusted her lips; her skin was flushed and sweaty. He grabbed for the canteen at his belt, unscrewing the cap, and pulled her head into his lap. "Drink," he ordered, opening her mouth for her, his blood roaring in his ears. Nesta stirred, but didn't fight him when he poured a little water down her throat. It was enough to have her opening her eyes. They were glazed. Cassian demanded, "When was the last time you had water?" Her eyes sharpened. The first time she'd really looked at him in three solid days. But she only took the canteen and drank deep, draining it. When she'd finished, she groaned, pushing herself from his lap, but only onto her side. He snapped, "You should have been drinking water throughout the day." She stared at the rocks around them. He couldn't stand that look--the vacancy, the indifference, as if she no longer really cared whether she lived or died here in the wild. His stomach twisted. Instinct bellowed at him to wrap himself around her, to comfort and soothe, but another voice, an ancient and wise voice, whispered to keep going. One more mountain, that voice said. Just one more mountain. He trusted that voice. "We'll camp here tonight." Nesta didn't try to rise, and Cassian scanned for a flatter expanse of ground. There--twenty feet up the riverbed and to the left. Flat enough. "Come on," he coaxed. "A few more feet and you can sleep." She didn't move. As if she couldn't. He told himself it was because she'd fainted and might not be sturdy, but he walked back to her. Crouched and picked her up in his arms, pack and all. She said nothing. Absolutely nothing. But he knew it was coming--that storm. Knew that Nesta would speak again, and when she did, he'd better be ready to weather it. Nesta found another plate waiting when she awoke to darkness. The full moon had shown her face, so bright the mountains, the rivers, the valley were illuminated enough that even the leaves on the trees far below were visible. She'd never seen such a view. It seemed like a secret, slumbering land that time had forgotten. She was nothing before that view, these mountains. As insignificant to any of it as one of the stones that still rattled in her boot. It was a blessed relief, to be nothing and no one. She didn't remember falling asleep, but dawn broke, and they were again moving. Heading north, he said--showing her, in a rare moment of civility, that the mossy sides of trees always faced that way, helping him stay on course. There was a lake, he told her during lunch. They'd reach it tonight, and stay there a day or two. She barely heard. One foot after another, mile after mile, up and down. The mountains watched her, the river sang to her, as if guiding her onward to that lake. No amount of driving her body into the earth would make her good. She knew it. Wondered if he did, too. Wondered if he thought he was trekking out here with her on a fool's errand. Or maybe it was like one of the ancient stories she'd heard as a child: he a wicked queen's huntsman, leading her into the deep wild before carving out her heart. She wished he would. Wished someone would cut the damned thing from her chest. Wished someone would smother the voice that whispered of every horrible thing she had ever done, every awful thought she'd had, every person she'd failed. She had been born wrong. Had been born with claws and fangs and had never been able to keep from using them, never been able to quell the part of her that roared at betrayal, that could hate and love more violently than anyone ever understood. Elain had been the only one who perhaps grasped it, but now her sister loathed her. She didn't know how to fix it. How to make any of it right. How to stop being this way. She didn't remember a time when she hadn't been angry. Maybe before her mother had died, but even then her mother herself had been bitter, disdainful of their father, and her mother's disdain had become her own. She couldn't quell that relentless, churning anger. Couldn't stop herself from lashing out before she could be wounded. She was no better than a rabid dog. She had been a rabid dog with Amren and Feyre. A beast, exactly like Tamlin. She hadn't even cared that she'd made it down the House stairs at last--did it count, when it was driven by fury? Did she count--was she worth being counted? It was the question that sent everything crumpling inside her. Nesta cleared the hill Cassian had mounted ahead, and a sparkling, turquoise lake spread before them. It lay slightly sunken between two peaks, as if a pair of green hands had been cupped to hold the water within them. Gray stones lined its shore. Nesta didn't see the lake, or the stones, or the sunlight and green. Her vision blurred, and her eyes stung as if they had been sliced-- cleaved open to allow the tears to pass. She made it to the stones before she fell to her knees, so hard the rock bit into her bones. Was she worth being counted? She knew the answer. Had always known it. Cassian whirled toward her, but Nesta didn't see him, either, or hear his words. Not as she buried her face in her hands and wept. <|title|>Chapter 50 <|startofchapter|>Once the wrenching, gasping sounds came out of her, Nesta knew she could not stop. She knelt on the shore of that mountain lake and let go entirely. She allowed every horrible thought to hit her, wash through her. Let herself see Feyre's pale, devastated face as Nesta had revealed the truth, as she'd let her own anger and pain ride her. She could never outlive it, her guilt. There was no point in trying. She sobbed into the darkness of her hands. And then the stones clicked, and a warm, steady presence appeared beside her. He didn't touch her, but his voice was nearby as he said, "I'm here." She sobbed harder at that. She couldn't stop. As if a dam had burst and only letting the water run its course, raging through her, would suffice. "Nesta." His fingers grazed her shoulder. She couldn't bear that touch. The kindness in it. "Please," she said. Her first word in five days. He stilled. "Please what?" She leaned from him. "Don't touch me. Don't--don't be kind to me." The words were a sobbing, rippling jumble. "Why?" The list of reasons surged, fighting to get out, to voice themselves, and she let them decide. Let them flow through her, as she whispered, "I let him die." He went quiet. Through her hands on her face, she continued to whisper. "He came to save me, and fought for me, and I let him die with hate in my heart. Hate for him. He died because I didn't stop it." Her voice broke, and she wept harder. "And I was so horrid to him, until the very end. I was so, so horrid to him all my life--and still he somehow loved me. I didn't deserve it, but he did. And I let him die." She bowed over her knees, saying into her palms, "I can't undo it. I can't fix it. I can't fix that he is dead, I can't fix what I said to Feyre, I can't fix any of the horrible things I've done. I can't fix me." She sobbed so hard she thought her body would break with it. Wanted her body to come apart like a cracked egg, wanted what was left of her soul to drift away on the mountain wind. She whispered, "I can't bear it." Cassian said quietly, "It isn't your fault." She shook her head, face still in her hands, as if it'd shield her from him, but he said, "Your father's death is not your fault. I was there, Nesta. I looked for a way out of it, too. And there was nothing that could have been done." "I could have used my power, I could have tried--" "Nesta." Her name was a sigh--as if he were pained. Then his arms were around her, and she was being pulled into his lap. She didn't fight it, not as he tucked her against his chest. Into his strength and warmth. "I could have found a way. I should have found a way." His hand began stroking her hair. Her entire body, right down to her bones, trembled. "My father's death, it's--it's the reason I can't stand fires." His hand stilled, then resumed. "Why?" "The logs ..." She shuddered. "They crack. It sounds like breaking bone." "Like your father's neck." "Yes," she breathed. "That's what I hear. I don't know how I'll ever not hear his neck snapping when I'm near a fire. It's ... it's torture." He continued to stroke her head. A wave of words pushed themselves out of her. "I should have found a way to save us before then. Save Elain and Feyre when we were poor. But I was so angry, and I wanted him to try, to fight for us, but he didn't, and I would have let us all starve to prove what a wretch he was. It consumed me so much that ... that I let Feyre go into that forest and told myself I didn't care, that she was half-wild, and it didn't matter, and yet ..." She let out a wrenching cry. "I close my eyes and I see her that day she went out to hunt the first time. I see Elain going into the Cauldron. I see her taken by it during the war. I see my father dead. And now I will see Feyre's face when I told her that the baby would kill her." She shook and shook, her tears burning hot down her cheeks. Cassian kept stroking her hair, her back, as he held her by the lake. "I hate it," she said. "Every part of me that ... does these things. And yet I can't stop it. I can't let down that barrier, because to let it fall, to let everything in ..." This was what would happen. This shrieking, weeping mess she'd become. "I can't bear to be in my head. I can't bear to hear and see everything, over and over. That is all I hear--the snapping of his neck. His last words to me. That he loved me." She whispered, "I didn't deserve that love. I deserve nothing." Cassian's hands tightened on her, her own hands falling away as she buried her face against his jacket and wept into his chest. He said after a moment, "I can tell you more about my mother, and how her death nearly destroyed me. I can tell you in detail about what I did afterward, and what that cost me. I can tell you about the decade it took me to work through it. I can tell you how many days and nights I suffered during the forty-nine years Amarantha held Rhys captive, the guilt tearing me apart that I wasn't there to help him, that I couldn't save him. I can tell you how I still look at him and know I'm not worthy of him, that I failed him when he needed me--that fact drags me from sleep sometimes. I can tell you I've killed so many people I've lost count, but I remember most of their faces. I can tell you how I hear Eris and Devlon and the others talk and, deep down, I still believe that I am a worthless bastard brute. That it doesn't matter how many Siphons I have or how many battles I've won, because I failed the two people dearest to me when it mattered the most." She couldn't find the words to tell him that he was wrong. That he was good, and brave, and-- "But I'm not going to tell you all of that," he said, pressing a kiss to the top of her head. The wind seemed to pause, the sunlight on the lake brightening. He said, "I am going to tell you that you will get through it. That you will face all of this, and you will get through it. That these tears are good, Nesta. These tears mean you care. I am going to tell you that it is not too late, not for any of it. And I can't tell you when, or how, but it will get better. What you feel, this guilt and pain and self-loathing--you will get through it. But only if you are willing to fight. Only if you are willing to face it, and embrace it, and walk through it, to emerge on the other side of it. And maybe you will still feel that tinge of pain, but there is another side. A better side." She pulled back from his chest then. Found his gaze lined with silver. "I don't know how to get there. I don't think I'm capable of it." His eyes glimmered with pain for her. "You are. I've seen it--I've seen what you can do when you are willing to fight for the people you love. Why not apply that same bravery and loyalty to yourself? Don't say you don't deserve it." He gripped her chin. "Everyone deserves happiness. The road there isn't easy. It is long, and hard, and often traveled utterly blind. But you keep going." He nodded to the mountains, the lake. "Because you know the destination will be worthwhile." She stared up at him, this male who had walked with her for five days in near-silence, waiting, she knew, for this moment. She blurted, "All the things I've done before--" "Leave them in the past. Apologize to who you feel the need to, but leave those things behind." "Forgiveness is not that easy." "Forgiveness is something we also grant ourselves. And I can talk to you until these mountains crumble around us, but if you don't wish to be forgiven, if you don't want to stop feeling this way ... it won't happen." He cupped her cheek, calluses scraping across her overheated skin. "You don't need to become some impossible ideal. You don't need to become sweet and simpering. You can give everyone that I Will Slay My Enemies look--which is my favorite look, by the way. You can keep that sharpness I like so much, that boldness and fearlessness. I don't want you to ever lose those things, to cage yourself." "But I still don't know how to fix myself." "There's nothing broken to be fixed," he said fiercely. "You are helping yourself. Healing the parts of you that hurt too much--and perhaps hurt others, too." Nesta knew he wouldn't have ever said it, but she saw it in his gaze-- that she had hurt him. Many times. She'd known she had, but to see it again in his face ... She lifted her hand to his cheek and laid it there, too drained to care about the gentleness of the touch. Cassian nuzzled into her hand, closing his eyes. "I'll be with you every step of the way," he whispered into her palm. "Just don't lock me out. You want to walk in silence for a week, I'm fine with that. So long as you talk to me at the end of it." She stroked a thumb over his cheekbone, marveling at him--the words and his beauty. Some essential piece of herself clicked into place. Some piece that whispered, Try. Cassian opened his eyes, and they were so lovely they nearly stole the breath from her. Nesta leaned forward until their brows touched. And despite all that brimmed in her heart, all that flowed through her body, sure and true, she merely whispered, "Thank you." The storm had broken, and it was not what Cassian had expected. He had expected rage capable of bringing down mountains. Not tears enough to fill this lake. Every sob had broken his heart. Every shake of her body as the words worked themselves out of her had torn him to shreds. Until he hadn't been able to keep from wrapping himself around her, comforting her. She hadn't heard wood cracking in a fire, but breaking bone. He should have known. How many fires had Nesta flinched from, hearing not the wood but her father's snapping neck? At last year's Winter Solstice party, she'd been pale and withdrawn--far worse than usual. And they'd had a massive, crackling fire in that room with them. Had kept it burning hot and loud all night. Every snap would have reminded her of her father. Each one would have been brutal. Unbearable. And when she'd suddenly rushed from the town house at the end of the party ... Had it been to get away from them, or to get free of the sound? Possibly both, but ... He wished she'd said something. He wished he'd at least known. And fuck, how many fires had he built these last few days? That first night, she'd curled as far from the flame as she could get. Had slept with an arm over her head. Blocking her ears, Mother damn him. And at the blacksmith, when she'd requested to move to a cooler, quieter room--one without the crackle of the forge ... It had taken more courage than he'd understood for her to ask to return to the workshop, to the flames, to hammer at those blades. She'd been suffering, and he'd had no idea how much it consumed every facet of her life. He'd seen her self-loathing and anger--but hadn't realized how much she had been aware of it. How much it had eaten her up. He couldn't stomach it. To know she'd hurt this much, for so long. Cassian held her on the shores of the lake until the sun set, until the moon rose, and they remained there, listening to each other breathe, as if the world had been flooded by her tears, as if they were both waiting to see what emerged once the floodwaters receded. The lake gleamed like a silver mirror in the moonlight, so bright it could have been dusk. His stomach grumbled with hunger, but as the moon drifted higher, he pressed a kiss to her head. "Get up." She stirred against him, but obeyed. He groaned, legs stiff from sitting for so long, and rose with her. Her arms wrapped around herself. As if she'd retreat behind that steel wall within her mind, her heart. Cassian drew the Illyrian blade from down his back. It gleamed with moonlight as he extended it to her hilt-first. "Take it." Blinking, eyes still puffy with tears, she did. The blade dipped as she wrapped her hands around it, as if she didn't expect its weight after so long with the wooden practice swords. Cassian stepped back. Then said, "Show me the eight-pointed star." She studied the blade, then swallowed. Her features were open, fearful but so trusting that he nearly went to his knees. He nodded toward the blade. "Show me, Nesta." Whatever she sought in his face, she found it. She widened her stance, bracing her feet on the stones. Cassian held his breath as she took up the first position. Nesta lifted the sword and executed a perfect arcing slash. Her weight shifted to her legs just as she flipped the blade, leading with the hilt, and brought up her arm against an invisible blow. Another shift and the sword swept down, a brutal slash that would have sliced an opponent in half. Each slice was perfect. Like that eight-pointed star was stamped on her very heart. The sword was an extension of her arm, a part of her as much as her hair or breath. Every movement bloomed with purpose and precision. In the moonlight, before the silvered lake, she was the most beautiful thing he'd ever seen. Nesta finished the eighth maneuver, and returned the sword to center. The light in her eyes shone brighter than the moon overhead. Such light, and clarity, that he could only whisper, "Again." With a soft smile that Cassian had never seen before, standing on the moon-washed shores of the lake, Nesta began. <|title|>Chapter 51 <|startofchapter|>"So you mean to tell me," Emerie muttered from the side of her mouth as they stood in the training ring two days later, "that you got into a fight with your family, disappeared for a week with Cassian, and came back able to use an actual sword, but I'm supposed to believe you when you say nothing happened?" Gwyn snickered, her attention fixed on tying a length of white silk ribbon to a wood beam jutting from the side of the pit. Neither the ribbon nor the beam had been there a week ago, and Nesta had no idea how they'd even anchored the wood into the stone, but there it was. The crisp morning wind ruffled Nesta's hair. "That's exactly what I'm telling you." "Tell me you at least had a week's worth of sex," Emerie muttered. Nesta choked on a laugh as Cassian stiffened across the ring--but he didn't turn. "There might have been some." After that night beside the lake, she and Cassian had lingered there for two entire days, either training with his sword or fucking like animals on the shore, in the water, bent over a boulder as she moaned his name so loudly it echoed off the peaks around them. He'd taken her over and over, and she'd clawed at him and torn his skin every time, as if she could climb into him and fuse their souls. They'd returned last night, and she'd been too tired to venture to his room. She assumed he'd been called to the river house, because he hadn't been at dinner, nor had he sought her out. She wasn't ready to see Feyre, though. For all she'd confessed to Cassian, that step ... She'd face it soon. "Done," Gwyn declared, the white ribbon fluttering in the wind where it hung from the beam. Behind them, a few of the priestesses working with Azriel had turned to see what the ribbon business was about. The shadowsinger crossed his arms, angling his head, but remained in his half of the ring. Cassian, however, approached Gwyn's handiwork and ran the white silk between two fingers. Nesta couldn't stop her blush. He'd done that by the lake: after he'd fucked her with his fingers, he'd held her gaze while he rubbed them together, testing the slide of her wetness against his skin the same way he was touching that ribbon. From the way his hazel eyes darkened, she knew he was recalling the same. But Cassian cleared his throat. "Explain," he ordered Gwyn. Gwyn squared her shoulders. "This is the Valkyrie test for whether your training is complete and you're ready for battle: cut the ribbon in half." Emerie snorted. "What?" But Cassian made a contemplative noise, gesturing to the other half of the ring. "Az told me you also started preliminary work with the steel blades while we were gone." He nodded to Gwyn and Emerie, the former glancing toward Azriel, who watched in silence. "So show me what you learned. Cut the ribbon in two." "We slice the ribbon in two," Emerie asked Gwyn warily, "and our training is complete?" Gwyn again glanced to Azriel, who drifted closer. She said, "I'm not entirely sure." Cassian released the ribbon. "A warrior's training is never complete, but if you're able to slice this ribbon in two--with one cut--then I'd say you can hold your own against most enemies. Even if you've only been training for a little while." At their silence, he looked between them. "Who's first?" Again, the three of them swapped glances. Nesta frowned. Whoever went first would get the brunt of the humiliation. Gwyn shook her head. No way in hell. Emerie's mouth popped open. "Why me?" she demanded. "What?" Cassian asked, and Nesta realized they hadn't been speaking. "You're oldest," Gwyn said, nudging Emerie toward the ribbon. Emerie groused, but stepped up to the dangling ribbon, grudgingly taking the sword Cassian extended. Azriel murmured over a shoulder to the priestesses under his charge as they watched. They instantly began moving again. But Azriel's attention remained on the ribbon. "Should we bet?" Gwyn asked Nesta. "Shut up," Emerie hissed, though amusement lit her eyes. Nesta smirked. "Go ahead, Emerie." Cursing under her breath, wings tucking in tight, Emerie lifted the blade in near-perfect form and sliced at the ribbon. The white silk fluttered and bent around the blade. And absolutely did not slice in two. "Let's all admit we knew that would happen," Emerie said, teeth bared as she slashed the sword again. The ribbon danced harmlessly away. Cassian clapped her shoulder. "Looks like I'll see you at training tomorrow." "Asshole," Nesta muttered. Cassian laughed and took the sword from Emerie, and--in the same breath--spun, swiping low and even. The bottom half of the ribbon fluttered to the ground. A perfect slice. He grinned. "At least I can cut the ribbon." Nesta didn't forget that parting shot. Not as they finished training for the day, and certainly not when she dragged Cassian down the stairs, straight to his bedroom, need bellowing in her veins. Cassian apparently felt the same, as he'd scarcely spoken these last few minutes, his eyes blazing bright. They only made it as far as his desk against the wall before she'd grabbed him--right as he'd pushed her down onto the wooden surface and stripped off her pants. Bent over the desk, her bottom half entirely exposed, Nesta ground her aching nipples into the wood surface, savoring the brutal crush. Her jacket, her shirt, her boots--all stayed on. In fact, her pants were only pushed down to her ankles, restricting her movement further. Leaving her utterly at his mercy. And as his cock at last sank deep into her, the two of them groaned. He stood behind her, one hand braced on the desk, the other clenching her hip as he pulled out nearly to the tip, then pushed back in slowly. Nesta writhed. "I could fuck you for days," he said against her sweaty neck. She moaned into a pile of papers. "I'm fucking soaked with you," he growled, and the hand at her hip slid around to tease the apex of her thighs. At the first taunting stroke, she breathed, "Cassian." He pounded into her at a steady, deep pace. The liquid slide of his cock into her sounded obscenely through his otherwise silent bedroom. His balls brushed against her, tickling her with each powerful thrust. "Harder." She wanted him imprinted on her very bones. "Harder." "Fuck," he exploded on a breath, and pulled back from where he'd braced himself. "Hold on to the desk," he ordered, and Nesta stretched to grip the edges just as his hands landed on her hips. His thighs pushed into her own, spreading her further--as wide as she could go--and he gave no warning before his hands tightened and he unleashed himself. Exquisite, punishing thrusts slammed so deep he hit her innermost wall, and her eyes rolled back into her head at the sheer bliss of it. He became savage, unrelenting. She might have been sobbing at the pleasure, the sheer size of him, so large there would never be any getting used to it. Every unrelenting push had her inching against the desk, the wood and papers teasing her breasts, and she nearly wept at that, too. Cassian's fingers dug into her hips so hard Nesta knew she'd bruise, loved that she'd bruise. He shifted his stance, and his cock plunged even deeper, rubbing against that spot, and the sounds that came from her weren't human or Fae, but something far more primal. "Fuck, yes," he snarled at her abandon. "That's it, Nesta." He accentuated each word with a savage thrust. "Do I feel good to you?" She whimpered her confirmation, then managed to say, "I like it when you ride me hard. Every time I move and my body is sore ..." She had to fight for words. For control. "I think of you. Of your cock." "Good. I want my cock to be the only thing you think about." His pace faltered as he licked up the column of her neck. She could hear the taunting smile in his words as he whispered, "Because your pretty little cunt is the only thing I think about." At the words, his foul language, her toes curled. But she wouldn't let him win this one, not when this had somehow become a competition for who could make the other come first, so she whispered, "I love being so covered in your seed that it leaks out of me for ages afterward. I love feeling it slide down my thighs and knowing you left your mark in me." "Fuck," he blew out, his pounding wild now, so unchecked only her hold on the desk kept her feet on the ground. "Fuck!" Cassian came with a roar, and at the first pulse of his cock spurting deep into her, she climaxed, screaming loud enough that he clamped a hand over her mouth. She bit down on his fingers, and he kept moving in her, spilling himself over and over. Until his seed was again running down her thighs, until he slid his fingers through a stream of it and brought it up to that spot at the apex of her sex. "You have no idea what you just started," he whispered in her ear, smearing his wetness there, rubbing into her sensitive flesh with idle circles. Nesta didn't reply as his fingers flicked against her, and she came again. Nesta did not venture down to the city to see Feyre. Or Amren. But she kept going to the stairs. She hadn't been able to reach the bottom again. Part of her knew that if she wanted to, she might accomplish it --just as she might open her mouth and ask Cassian to take her to the river house. But she didn't. So she kept trying the stairs for another week straight, always getting about halfway down before turning back, her legs absolute jelly by the time she returned to the hallway. It was fitting, given that her arms were jelly, too. Yes, she wielded the sword with her entire body, but her arms hurt most of all. And it didn't help that they'd started on shields now. No one had managed to slice Gwyn's ribbon in two. They all tried at the start and end of every lesson, and all failed. Nesta had begun to resent the sight of a ribbon anywhere--tying back Roslin's red hair, folded in the accessory drawer of her dressing table, even bound for place-keeping into the latest romance Emerie had loaned her. They all laughed at her. Taunted her. So Nesta ran the steps, and practiced, and failed. She took Cassian to her bed every night and sometimes during the day, though they never slept in each other's rooms. Not once. They fucked, they savaged each other, and then they parted. No matter that there were some nights when she wanted him to stay. Wanted to roll off him and snuggle into his warmth and fall asleep to the sound of his breathing. But he always left before she mustered the courage to ask. Nesta was leafing through a tome of military history in the library--that had one paragraph on Valkyrie ambush strategies--when Gwyn appeared. "Tell me you found their secret to cutting the ribbon." "You and that ribbon," Nesta muttered, shutting the tome. Of all of them, Gwyn had become the most relentless about succeeding. Gwyn crossed her arms, pale robes rustling. She winced and rubbed her shoulder. "Did you know shields weighed so much? I certainly didn't. No wonder the Valkyries learned to use them as weapons as deadly as their swords." She sighed. "They'd have been quite a sight in battle: cracking open enemy skulls with blows from their shields, throwing them to knock an opponent onto their backs before skewering them ..." She rubbed her shoulder again. "Their arm muscles must have been as hard as steel." Nesta snorted. "Indeed." She cocked her head. "Now that you're here, I want to ask a favor." Gwyn arched a brow. "About the Trove?" "No." Nesta knew she had to scry--soon--for the Harp. She'd lost a good week in the mountains, and if Queen Briallyn already had the Crown ... Time was not on their side. But she said, "You mentioned a while ago that you have evening services--with music, right?" Gwyn smiled. "Oh, yes. You want to join us? I promise, it's not all religious stuff. I mean, it is, but it's beautiful. And the cave we have the service in is beautiful, too. It was carved by the underground river that flows beneath the mountain, so the walls are smooth as glass. And it's acoustically perfect--the shape and size of the space amplifies and clarifies each voice within." "It sounds heavenly," Nesta admitted. "It is." Gwyn smiled again, eyes lighting with pride. "Some of the songs you'll hear are so ancient they predate the written word. Some of them are so old we didn't even have them in Sangravah. Clotho found them in books shelved below Level Seven. Hana--she'll be the one who plays the lute--figured out how to read the music." "I'll be there." Nesta shifted on her feet. "I think I need something like that." At Gwyn's quizzical look, Nesta said, "I ..." She fumbled for the smoothest way to say it. "I..." Gwyn slid her hands into the robe's pockets, her face open--waiting. Nesta finally said, letting herself voice the words, "After the war, I was in a bad place. I still am, I suppose, but for more than a year after the war ..." She couldn't look Gwyn in the eye. "I did a lot of things I regret. Hurt people I regret harming. And I hurt myself. I drank day and night and I..." She didn't want to say the word to Gwyn--fucked--so she said, "I took strangers to my bed. To punish myself, to drown myself." She shrugged a shoulder. "It's a long story, and not one worth telling, but through it all, I picked taverns and pleasure halls to frequent because of the music. I've always loved music." She braced herself for the damning judgment. But only sorrow filled Gwyn's face. "You've probably guessed that my residency in the House, my training, my work in the library is my sister's attempt to help me." Her sister whom she had still not apologized to, whom she still didn't have the courage to face. "And I ... I think I might be glad Feyre did this for me. The drinking, the males--I don't miss any of it. But the music ... that I miss." Nesta waved a hand, as if she could banish the vulnerability she'd offered up. But she went on, "And since I'm not particularly welcome in the city, I was hoping you meant it when you said I could come to one of your services. Just so I can hear some music again." Gwyn's eyes shone, like the sunlight on a warm sea. Nesta's heart thundered, waiting for her reply. But Gwyn said, "Your story is worth telling, you know." Nesta began to object, but Gwyn insisted, "It is. But yes--if you want music, then come to the services. We will be glad to have you. I will be glad to have you." Until Gwyn learned how horrible she'd been. "No," Gwyn said, apparently reading the thought on her face. She grabbed Nesta's hand. "You ... I understand." Nesta heard Gwyn's own heart begin thundering. "I understand," Gwyn repeated, "what it is to ... fail the people who mean the most. To live in fear of people finding out. I dread you and Emerie learning my history. I know that once you do, you'll never look at me the same again." Gwyn squeezed Nesta's hand. Her story would come later. Nesta let her see it in her face, that when Gwyn was ready, nothing she could reveal would make her walk away. "Come to the service this evening," Gwyn said. "Listen to the music." She squeezed her hand again. "You'!l always be welcome to join me, Nesta." Nesta hadn't realized how badly she'd needed to hear it. She squeezed Gwyn's hand back. <|title|>Chapter 52 <|startofchapter|>The wooden pews that filled the massive, red-stoned cavern were packed with pale-hooded figures, their blue gems glimmering in the torchlight as they waited for the sunset service to begin. Nesta claimed a spot on a pew in the rear, earning a few curious looks from the hooded females who filed past, but no one spoke to her. A dais lay at the far end of the space, though no altar sat upon it. A natural stone pillar rose from the ground, the top flattened into something like a podium. Nothing else. No effigies or idols, no gilded furniture. A silver-haired figure stalked down the aisle, a cold wind at her heels, and the others gave her a wide berth. Nesta stiffened as Merrill's twilight- colored eyes settled upon her and narrowed with recognition--and hatred. But the female kept moving, taking her place atop the dais, where Clotho had appeared. Still no Gwyn. The last of the priestesses found whatever seat was available, and silence fell as a group of seven females stepped onto the dais beside Merrill and Clotho. Some were hooded; others were bareheaded. And one of those bareheaded priestesses-- Gwyn. Her eyes glowed with mischief and delight as they found Nesta's, as if to say, Surprise. Nesta couldn't help but smile back. A bell rang seven times somewhere nearby, echoing through the stones, through Nesta's feet. Each peal was a summons, a call to focus. Everyone rose at the seventh peal. Nesta gazed at the sea of pale robes and blue stones as the entire room seemed to suck in a breath. As that seventh bell finished pealing, music erupted. Not from any instruments, but from all around. As if they were one voice, the priestesses began to sing, a wave of sparkling sound. Nesta could only gape at the lovely melody, the voices from the front of the cavern leading it, lifting higher than the others. Gwyn sang, chin high, a faint glow seeming to radiate from her. The music was pure, ancient, by turns whispering and bold, one moment like a tendril of mist, the next like a gilded ray of light. It finished, and Merrill spoke about the Mother and the Cauldron and the land and sun and water. She spoke of blessings and dreams and hope. Of mercy and love and growth. Nesta half-heard it, waiting for the sound, the perfect, beautiful sound, to begin again. Gwyn seemed to be shimmering with pride and contentedness. Merrill finished the prayer, and the group began another song. It was like a braid, the song--a plait of seven voices, weaving in and out, individual strands that together formed a pattern. Halfway through it, a drum appeared in the hand of the singer on the far left. A harp began strumming in the hands of one on the far right. A lute sounded from the center. She'd never heard such music. Like a spell, a dream given form. The entire room sang, each voice resonating through the stone. But Gwyn's voice rose above them all, clear and powerful and yet husky on some notes. A mezzo-soprano. The word floated from the depths of Nesta's memory, voiced by a watery-eyed music tutor who'd quickly declared Nesta hopeless at singing or playing, but in possession of an unusually fine ear. The song ended, and more prayers and words flowed from Merrill, Clotho silent beside her. Then another song started--this one merrier, faster than the other. As if the songs were a progression. This one was a lilting chant, the words tumbling over each other like water dancing down a mountainside, and Nesta's foot tapped on the ground in time to the beat. Nesta could have sworn that beneath the hem of Gwyn's robe, the priestess's foot was doing the same. The words and the countermelodies danced around and around, until the walls hummed with the music, until the stone seemed to be singing it back. They finished, and started another song--led into it by a rolling drumbeat, then a single voice. Then the harp joined, a second voice with it. Then the lute, along with a third. The three sang around and into each other, another braid of voices and melodies. They reached the second verse, and the other four joined in, the room with them. Gwyn's voice soared like a bird through the cavern as she started the third song with a solo, and Nesta closed her eyes, leaning into the music, shutting out one sense in order to luxuriate in the sound of her friend. Something beckoned in Gwyn's song, in a way the others' hadn't. Like Gwyn was calling only to her, her voice full of sunshine and joy and unshakable determination. Nesta had never heard a voice like Gwyn's--by turns trained and wild, as if there was so much sound fighting to break free of Gwyn that she couldn't quite contain it all. As if the sound needed to be loose in the world. The others joined Gwyn for the second verse, and the harp's harmonies rose above their song, archways of wordless notes. With her eyes closed, only the music mattered--the song, the voices, the harp. It wrapped around her, as if she'd been dropped into a bottomless pool of sound. Gwyn's voice rose again, holding such a high note it was like a ray of pure light, piercing and summoning. Two other voices rolled in to join, pulsing around that repeated high note, the harp still strumming, voices whispering and flowing, lulling Nesta down, down, down into a pure, ancient place where no outside world existed, no time, nothing but the music in her bones, the stones at her feet, her side, overhead. The music took form behind Nesta's eyes as the priestesses sang lyrics in languages so old, no one voiced them anymore. She saw what the song spoke of: mossy earth and golden sun, clear rivers and the deep shadows of an ancient forest. The harp strummed, and mountains rolled ahead, as if a veil had been cleared with the stroke of those strings, and she was flying toward it--toward a massive, mist-veiled mountain, the land barren save for moss and stones and a gray, stormy sea around it. The mountain itself held two peaks at its very top, and the stones jutting from its sides were carved in strange, ancient symbols, as old as the song itself. Nesta's body melted away, her bones and the stones of the cavern a distant memory as she flowed into the mountain, beheld towering, carved gates, and passed through them into a darkness so complete it was primordial; darkness that was full of living things, terrible things. A path led into the dark, and she followed it, past doors with no handles, sealed forever. She felt horrors lurk behind those doors, one horror greater than the others--a being of mist and hatred--but the song led her past them all, invisible and unmarked. This place was utterly lethal. A place of suffering and rage and death. Her very soul quaked to wander its halls. And even though she had passed by the door keeping her safe from that one being more horrible than all the rest ... she knew it watched her. She refused to look back, to acknowledge it. So Nesta drifted down and down, the harp and the voices pulsing and guiding, until she stopped before a rock. She laid a hand on it to find it was only an illusion, and she passed through it, down another long hall, beneath the mountain itself, and then she stood in a cavern, almost the twin to the one the priestesses sang in, as if they were linked in song and dreaming. But rather than red stone, it was carved of black rock. Symbols had been etched into the smooth floor, into the curving walls, rising toward a ceiling so high it faded into gloom. Spells and wards pulsed around the room, but there, in the center of the space, set upon the floor as if it had been laid there by someone who'd merely walked away and forgotten it ... There, in the center of the chamber, sat a small, golden harp. Cold leached through Nesta, clarifying her thoughts enough to realize where she stood. That the music of the priestesses had lulled her into a trance, that her own bones and the stone of the mountain surrounding her had been her scrying tools, and she had drifted to this place ... The Harp gleamed in the darkness, as if it possessed its own sun within the metal and strings. Play me, it seemed to whisper. Let me sing again. Join your voice with mine. Her hand reached toward the strings. Yes. The Harp sighed, a low purr rolling off it as Nesta's hand neared. We shall open doors and pathways; we shall move through space and eons together. Our music will free us of earthly rules and borders. Yes. She'd play the Harp, and there would be nothing but music until the stars died out. Play. I have so long wished to play, it said, and she could have sworn she heard a smile within the sound. What might my song unlock in here? A cold, humorless laugh skittered along Nesta's bones. It sang again, Play, play The song halted, and the vision shattered. Nesta's knees gave out as the room swept in, and she collapsed onto the pew, earning an alarmed look from Gwyn through the crowd. Her heart thundered, her mouth was dry as sand, and she forced herself to rise to her feet again. To listen to the end of the service as she pieced it all together, realized what she had discovered in her unwitting scrying. "You're sure of this?" Cassian leaned a hip against Rhys's desk. "Nesta said the Harp is beneath the Prison." "She's never been to the Prison," Rhys said, frowning. Cassian had honestly thought Nesta might be drunk when she'd burst into the dining room an hour earlier, breathless, and told him her wild story. He'd hardly been able to follow what she'd said, except for the fact that she believed the Harp was at the Prison. Worse, that she'd woken up the Harp in the Prison. What havoc might it wreak unchecked? The thought chilled Cassian to the core. So he'd flown down here and found Rhys in his study. Again poring over old healers' volumes, trying to find some way to save his mate. Rhys leaned back against his seat. Considered. Az had winnowed to a meeting point on the eastern coast to get a report from Mor about the Vallahan situation, and Feyre was out to dinner with Amren, so it was just the two of them tonight. Cassian had suggested that Nesta come tell Rhys herself, but she'd refused. She'd been shaken--had needed some time to pull herself back together. He'd check in on her later. Make sure she hadn't withdrawn too far into her head. Rhys drummed his fingers on his biceps. Stared at his desk for a long moment. "When we heard about Beron's treachery, I had Helion show me how to apply a shield like the one I had around Feyre to the Prison itself." "You guessed this would happen?" "No." A muscle ticked in Rhys's jaw. "Feyre and I were concerned that Beron would try to free the inmates to use in a conflict--just as we used the Bone Carver in the war. Give me tonight, and I'll get the shield untangled and open for you tomorrow." "It takes that long to undo a shield?" Rhys dragged a hand through his hair. Worries etched deep lines into his brow. "It's a combination of magic and spell work, so yes. And I'll admit I'm distracted enough these days that I might need some extra time to make sure it's done correctly." Cassian's stomach bottomed out at the bleakness in Rhys's face. But he only said, "All right." A blade appeared on the desk, summoned from wherever Rhys kept it. The great sword Nesta had Made. "Take it with you," his High Lord said quietly. "I want to see what happens if Nesta uses it." "A visit to the Prison isn't the time for one of your experiments," Cassian countered. The stars in Rhys's eyes winked out. "Then let's hope she doesn't need to draw it." <|title|>Chapter 53 <|startofchapter|>"Rhysand really gave this sword to me of his own free will?" Nesta asked Cassian the next morning as they hiked the mossy, rock-strewn side of the towering mountain known as the Prison. It was exactly as she'd pictured it in her trance--and even more horrible in person. The very land seemed abandoned. Like something great had once existed here and then vanished. Like the land still waited for it to return. "Rhys said if we're going into the Prison, we should be well armed," Cassian said, his dark hair tossed by the cold, wet wind off the thrashing gray sea beyond the plain to their right. "And this is the best place he can think of for us to try out the sword you Made." "So if it goes badly, at least it will kill me, not anyone else?" Nesta couldn't keep the sharpness from her tone. Rhys had winnowed them here, depositing them at the base of the mountain, as no magic could pierce its heavy wards. Nesta hadn't been able to look him in the eye. "You're not going to be killed. Either by that blade or anything in there." His jaw tightened as he surveyed the towering gates far above. He'd put many of the current inmates inside, and Nesta had heard Feyre's harrowing tales of visiting the Prison on several occasions. Little frightened her sister--that Feyre found it to be petrifying didn't help the twisting sensation in Nesta's gut. "You remember the rules?" Cassian asked as they neared the gates of bone, intricately carved with every manner of creature. "Yes." Hold Cassian's hand the entire time, don't speak of Amren, don't speak of anything regarding the Trove or the court or Feyre's pregnancy, don't speak of the creatures he put in here, don't do anything except walk and stay on high alert. And get that Harp out before it could unleash chaos. The bone gates groaned open. Cassian tensed, but kept climbing upward. "Looks like we're expected." Down into the darkness, into hell itself, they walked. Nesta clutched Cassian's hand, her rope to life in this lightless place. One of Cassian's Siphons flared with red light, bloodying the black walls, the doors they sometimes passed. Cassian moved with the fluidity of a trained warrior, but she noted his gaze darting around the path they walked, which plunged into the earth. The entrance to the hidden hall she'd seen in her scrying had been far, far below --between an iron door with a single rune upon it and a little alcove in the stone. Soft noises whispered through the rock. She could have sworn nails scraped behind one door. When she glanced at Cassian, his face paled. He noticed her stare and patted his left pectoral--right above the thick scar there. Indication of who was imprisoned behind that door. Who ran their nails over it. Her blood chilled. Blue Annis. Cobalt skin and iron claws, he'd said. Annis savored eating her prey. Nesta swallowed, squeezing Cassian's hand, and they continued downward. Minutes or hours passed, she didn't know. In the gloom, the heavy, whispering air, time had ceased to matter. Nausea roiled through her. Amren had been in this place for thousands of years, thrown in by fools who had feared her in her true form, that being of flame and light who had laid waste to Hybern's army. Nesta couldn't imagine spending a day in this place. A year. She didn't know how Amren hadn't gone mad. How she'd found the strength to survive. She'd treated Amren badly. The small thought wedged into her mind. She had used her, exactly as Amren said, as a shield against everyone. And Amren, who had survived millennia in this awful place, alongside the worst monsters in the land ... Amren found her abhorrent. Misery burned like acid. Something pounded through the rock to their left, and Nesta flinched. Cassian squeezed her hand. "Ignore it," he murmured. Down and down, into a place worse than hell. And then she spied an alcove burned into her memory, behind her eyelids. And--yes, beside it was that iron door with the sole rune on its surface. "Here." Nesta jerked her chin toward the bald stone. "Through the rock." When Cassian didn't reply, she twisted to him. His focus lay fixed on the iron door. His golden-brown skin had gone ashen. His lips mouthed the name of the being behind it. Lanthys. "You're sure ..." Cassian swallowed. "You're sure this is the place?" "Yes." Nesta didn't grant them time to reconsider as she outstretched her free hand and stepped up to the stone. Her fingers passed through the rock. As if it didn't exist. Cassian yanked her back, but she pushed forward, and her hand, then her wrist, then her arm vanished. And then they were through. "I had no idea there was anything else in the Prison," Cassian breathed as they continued down another hallway. No doors lined it, just smooth stone. "I thought there were only cells." "I told you," she answered. "I saw a chamber here." The light of the Siphon atop Cassian's hand revealed an archway and openness--and there it was. Raised symbols carved into the floor cast shadows against the crimson light. The entire round chamber was full of them. And in its center--the golden Harp, covered in intricate embossing, set with silver strings. It didn't sing, didn't speak. It might as well have been an ordinary instrument. Which was exactly why Nesta tugged Cassian into a halt beneath the archway, not daring to step onto the carved floor. "We need to be careful." Nesta peered into the vast, empty chamber. "There are wards and spells here." Cassian rubbed his jaw with his free hand. "My magic doesn't skew toward spells. I can blast apart magical shields and wards, but if it's a trap like Feyre and Amren faced at the Summer Court, I can't sense it." Nesta tapped her foot in a swift beat. "Rhysand's wards on the Mask couldn't keep me out. The Mask wished for me to come, so it allowed me through. Maybe the Harp will do the same. Like calls to like, as you all enjoy saying." "I'm not letting you go into that room alone. Not if that thing wants to play." "I don't think we have a choice." He squeezed her hand, calluses rubbing against her own. "You lead, I'll follow." "What if my presence would go unnoticed, but yours sets off a trap? We can't risk that." His throat bobbed. "I can't risk you." The words slammed into her heart. "I ... You can. You have to." Before he could further object, she said, "You are training me to be a warrior. Yet you'd keep me from danger? How is that any better than a caged animal?" The words must have struck something in him. "All right." Cassian unbuckled the great sword he'd carried for her. He looped it around her middle, its weight considerable. She adjusted her balance. "We try it your way. And at the first sign of something wrong, we leave." "Fine." She swallowed the dryness in her mouth. His eyes glittered, noting her hesitation. "Not too late to change your mind." Nesta bristled. "I'm not allowing anyone but us to get their hands on the Harp." With that, she stepped to the demarcation line between the hall and the chamber. Bracing herself, she pushed a foot forward. It was like stepping through mud. But the wards allowed her through. Nesta took another step, arm extended behind her to hold Cassian's hand. The pressure of the spells pushed against her calves, her hips, her body, squeezing her lungs. "These are like no wards I've felt before," she whispered, standing still as she waited for any hint of a triggered trap. "They feel old. Incredibly old." "They probably predate this place being used as a prison." "What was it before?" "No one knows. It's always been here. But this chamber ..." He surveyed the space beyond her. "I didn't know places like this existed here. Maybe ..." He frowned. "Part of me wonders if the Prison was either built or stocked with its inmates to hide the Harp's presence. There are so many terrible powers here, and the wards on the mountain itself ... I wonder if someone hid the Harp knowing that it'd never be noticed with so much awful magic around it." Her mouth had dried again. "But who put it here?" "Your guess is as good as mine. Someone who existed before the High Lords ruled. Rhys told me once that this island might have even been an eighth court." "You don't recognize these markings on the ground?" "Not at all." She loosed a long breath. "I don't think any traps were triggered." He nodded. "Be quick." Their gazes held, and Nesta turned from the raw worry in his eyes as she pulled her hand from his and entered the chamber. The wards lay heavy against Nesta's skin with each step across the stone floor to the shining Harp. "It looks newly polished," she observed to Cassian, who watched from the archway. "How is that possible?" "It exists outside the bindings of time, just as the Cauldron does." Nesta studied the carvings in the floor. They all seemed to spiral toward one point. "I think these are stars," she breathed. "Constellations." And like a golden sun, the Harp lay at the center of the system. "This is the Night Court," Cassian said drily. But it felt ... different from Night Court magic somehow. Nesta paused before the Harp, the wards pressing into her skin as she surveyed its golden frame and silver strings. The Harp sat atop a large rendering of an eight- pointed star. Its cardinal points stretched longer than the other four, with the Harp situated directly in the heart of the star. The hair on the back of her neck stood. She could have sworn the blood in her body reversed course. She had the creeping feeling she'd been brought here. Not by the Cauldron or the Mother or the Harp. By something vaster. Something that stretched into the stars carved all around them. Its cool, light hands guided her wrists as she picked up the Harp. Her fingers brushed the icy metal. The Harp hummed against her skin, as if it still held its final note, from the last time it had been used-- Fae screamed, pounding on stone that hadn't been there a moment before, pleading for their children's sakes, begging to be let out let out let out-- Nesta had the sensation of falling, tumbling through air and stars and time-- It was a trap, and our people were too blind to see it-- Eons and stars and darkness plunged around her-- The Fae clawed at stone, tearing their nails on rock where there had once been a door. But the way back was now forever sealed, and they begged as they tried to pass their children through the solid wall, if only their children could be spared-- Light flashed, blinding. When it cleared, she stood in a white-stoned palace. A great hall, where five thrones graced a dais. The sixth throne, in the center, was occupied by a pointy-eared crone. A golden, spiked crown rested on her head, blazing like the hate in her black eyes. The Fae crone stiffened, blue velvet robes shifting with the movement. Her eyes, clear despite her wrinkled face, sharpened. Right on Nesta. "You have the Harp," the queen said, voice like crinkling paper. And Nesta knew who she stood frozen before, what crown lay on her thin, white hair. Briallyn's gnarled fingers curled on the arms of her throne, and her gaze narrowed. The queen smiled, revealing a mouth of half-rotted teeth. Nesta backed up a step--or tried to. She couldn't move. Briallyn's horrible smile deepened and she said conversationally, "My spies have told me who your friends are. The half-breed and the broken Illyrian. Such lovely girls." Nesta's blood churned, and she knew her eyes were blazing with her power as she snarled, "You come near them and I'll rip out your throat. I will hunt you down and gut you." Briallyn tutted. "Such bonds are foolish. As foolish as you still holding on to the Harp, which sings answers to all my questions. I know where you are, Nesta Archeron--" Darkness erupted. Unmoving, solid darkness, slamming into Nesta as hard as a wall. Screams still echoed. No--no, that was a male bellowing her name. And she had not slammed into the darkness. She'd collided with the stone, and now lay upon the floor, the Harp in her hands. "NESTA!" Red light flared, washing like a bloody tide upon the stones, her face, the ceiling. But Cassian's Siphons could not break through the wards. He could not reach her. Nesta clutched the Harp to her chest, the last of its reverberations echoing through her. She had to let go. Somehow, in touching the Harp while Briallyn was wearing the Crown, she had opened a pathway between their minds, their eyes. She could see Briallyn, and Briallyn could see her, could sense where she was. She had to let go-- She couldn't do more than twitch her fingertips as invisible, oppressive weight bore into her, like it'd flatten her into dust upon the ground. Let go, she silently bade it, gritting her teeth, fingers brushing over the nearest string. Free me, you blasted thing. A beautiful, haughty voice answered, full of music so lovely it broke her heart to hear it. I do not appreciate your tone. With that the Harp pushed into her harder, and Nesta roared silently. Her nail scraped over the string again. Let me go! Shall I open a door for you, then? Release that which is caught? Yes! Damn you, yes! It has been a long while, sister, since I played. I shall need time to remember the right combinations ... Don't play games. Nesta chilled at the word it had used. Sister. Like she and this thing were one and the same. The small strings are for games--light movement and leaping--but the longer, the final ones ... Such deep wonders and horrors we could strum into being. Such great and monstrous magic I wrought with my last minstrel. Shall I show you? No. Just open up these wards. As you wish. Pluck the first string, then. Nesta didn't hesitate as her fingertip curled over the first string, grasping and then releasing it. A musical laugh filled her mind, but the weight lifted. Vanished. Nesta heaved a breath, shoving upward, and found herself free to move as she wished. The Harp lay still in her hands, dormant. The very air seemed lighter. Looser. Like opening another doorway had shut the one to Briallyn. "NESTA!" Cassian thundered from across the chamber. "I'm fine," she called out, shaking off her lingering tremors. "But I think someone very wicked used this last." She stared into the darkness above. "I think they used it to ... to trap their enemies and their enemies' children into the stone itself." Was that what had been happening to her just now? The Harp had been pushing her into the rock, fusing her soul with it? She shivered. Cassian demanded, "Are you hurt? What happened?" She groaned, rising slowly. "No. I... I touched it and it held a memory. A bad one." One she'd never forget. "And we need to leave. It showed me Briallyn, wearing the Crown. She saw me here." The words tumbled out as Nesta waded back through the ward-heavy cavern, feeling that center spot, the star at its heart, like a physical presence at her back. Those vast, light hands seemed to pull at her, trying to make her return, but she ignored them, explaining to Cassian what she'd heard from the Harp, and what she'd seen in the vision with Briallyn. Cassian's breathing remained uneven. He didn't relax one muscle until she stepped back into the tunnel hallway. Until his hand was again around hers. He didn't even bother to look at the Harp, or comment on Briallyn. He only surveyed her for any sign of harm. It was as intimate as any look he'd ever given her. Even when he was buried deep inside her, moving in her, his gaze had never been so openly raw. She tucked the Harp into her side and couldn't stop the hand she lifted to his cheek. "I'm fine." He pressed a kiss into the heart of her palm. "I don't know why I doubted you." He pulled from her touch. "Let's get the hell out of here." Dark promise laced the words--and she knew what they'd be doing as soon as they dumped the Harp off to become Rhysand's problem. Her cheeks heated, something like pleasure going through her. That he would pick her, them--that he wanted the reassurance of her body that much. She interlaced her fingers through his, squeezing as tightly as their hands could be pressed together. He squeezed back, and tugged her down the passageway, away from the site of pain and long-forgotten memory. The sword bounced against her thigh, and she said, breaking the silence, "I named it Ataraxia." He glanced over his shoulder at her. "That sword? What's it mean?" "It's from the Old Language. I found it in a book the other day in the library. I liked the sound of it." "Ataraxia," he said as though he were trying out the weapon itself. "I like it." "I'm so glad you approve." "It's better than Killer or Silver Majesty," he threw back. His grin was brighter than the glowing Siphon atop his left hand. Her pulse raced. "Ataraxia," he said again, and Nesta could have sworn the blade hanging from her belt hummed in answer. As if it liked the sound of his voice as much as she did. They neared the end of the tunnel, but Nesta paused him with a tug on his hand. "What?" he asked, scanning the cavern. But she rose onto her toes and kissed him lightly. He blinked with almost comic shock as she pulled away. "What was that for?" Nesta shrugged, her cheeks heating. "Gwyn and Emerie are my friends," she said quietly. She tucked away her horror that Briallyn had eyes on them. "But ..." She swallowed. "I think you might be, too, Cassian." Cassian's silence was palpable, and she cursed herself for laying bare that wish, that realization. Wished she could wipe away the words, the stupidity-- "I've always been your friend, Nesta," he said hoarsely. "Always." She couldn't bear to see what was in his eyes. "I know." Cassian brushed his mouth over her temple, and they exited the tunnel at last, entering the main path of the Prison, its heavy gloom. Nesta whispered, finally daring to say it, "And I've always--" Cassian threw her behind him so fast the rest of the words died in her throat. "Run." His heartbeat--his pure terror--filled the air. "Nesta, run." She whirled toward what he faced, his Illyrian blade gleaming ruby in the light of his Siphon. As if a blade could do anything. The door to Lanthys's cell lay open. <|title|>Chapter 54 <|startofchapter|>Cassian beheld the open door to Lanthys's cell and knew two things. The first, and most obvious, was that he was about to die. The second was that he would do anything in the world to prevent Nesta from meeting the same fate. The second clarified his mind, cooled and sharpened his fear into another weapon. By the time the voice slithered from the darkness around them, he was ready. "I wondered when you and I would meet again, Lord of Bastards." Cassian had never, not once, forgotten the timbre and iciness of that voice, how it made his very blood bristle with hoarfrost. But Cassian answered, "All these centuries in here and you haven't invented a more creative name for me?" Lanthys's laugh twined around them like a snake. Cassian gripped Nesta's hand, though his order to run still hung between them. It was too late for running. At least for him. All that remained was buying her enough time to escape. "You thought yourself so clever with the ash mirror," Lanthys seethed, voice echoing from all around them. The light of Cassian's left Siphon revealed only red-washed, misty darkness. "Thought you could best me." Another laugh. "I am immortal, boy. A true immortal, as you might never hope to be. Two centuries in here is nothing. I knew I'd only need to bide my time before I found a way to escape." "You found a way?" Cassian drawled to the mist that was Lanthys. "It seems like someone helped you out." He clicked his tongue. He just had to wait--wait until the attack came. Then Nesta could run. She was rigid beside him, utterly frozen. He nudged her with a foot, trying to knock her from her stupor. He needed her primed to run, not rooted to the spot like a deer. "The door opened of my will alone," Lanthys purred. "Liar. Someone opened it for you." Lanthys's mist thickened, rumbling with ire. Nesta swallowed audibly, and Cassian knew. When she'd ordered the Harp to let her go ... The Harp had also released Lanthys. Just open up these wards, she'd instructed it. So it had: the wards on her, and the wards nearby --on Lanthys's cell. It had said it wanted to play. And here it was: playing with their lives. What if the Harp had extended its reach beyond Lanthys's door? If every single cell door here was open ... Fuck. But Cassian said to the monster he feared above all others, "So you plan to swirl around me like a rain cloud? What of that handsome form I saw in the mirror?" "Ts that what your companion prefers?" Lanthys whispered from too close--far too close. Nesta cringed away. Lanthys inhaled. "What are you?" "A witch," she breathed. "From Oorid's dark heart." "There is a name I have not heard in a long while." Lanthys's voice sounded mere feet from Nesta. Cassian gritted his teeth. He needed the monster gathered on the other side of her--so the path upward was clear. Had to draw Lanthys over toward him. "But you do not smell of Oorid's heaviness, its despair." An inhale, still behind them, blocking the way out. "Your scent ..." He sighed. "A pity you've marred such a scent with Cassian's stink. I can barely distinguish anything on you besides his essence." That alone, Cassian realized, kept Lanthys from realizing what she was. Being interested, as the Bone Carver had been. But it revealed another dangerous truth: where to strike first. "What is it you are obscuring behind you?" Lanthys asked, and Nesta turned, as if tracking him, keeping the Harp hidden at her back. Lanthys chuckled, though. "Ah. I see it now. Long have I wondered who would come to claim it. I could hear its music, you know. Its final note, like an echo in the stone. I was surprised to find it down here, hidden beneath the Prison, after all that time." The mist swirled and Lanthys drawled, "Such exquisite music it makes. What wonder it spins. Everything pays fealty to that Harp: seasons, kingdoms, the order of time and worlds. These are of no consequence to it. And its last string ..." He laughed. "Even Death bows to that string." Nesta swallowed again. Cassian squeezed her hand tighter and said casually, "You true immortals are all the same: arrogant windbags who love to hear yourselves talk." "And you faeries are all blind to your own selves." Lanthys crooned, circling again, and Cassian readied his blade. "Based upon scent alone, I would say that you two are--" Cassian released Nesta's hand and lunged forward, spearing his blade into the mist before Lanthys could say one more damning word. Lanthys screamed in rage as Cassian's Siphons flared, and Cassian roared, "RUN!" before he struck again. Lanthys retreated, and Cassian used the breath to free the Siphon from his left hand before chucking it to her, willing it to light. "Go!" he commanded as he tossed the stone to her. Red splashed across her fear-tight face as she caught his Siphon, but Cassian was already pivoting to Lanthys. The crunching, fading steps told him Nesta obeyed. Good. Lanthys gathered in the darkness, a cobra readying to strike. Cassian just prayed Nesta made it out of the gates before he died. Nesta ran from the voice that was hate and cruelty and hunger entwined. The voice that robbed her of joy, of warmth, of anything but primal, basic fear. Her thighs protested at the path's steepness, but she sprinted up toward the gates, obeying Cassian's command, the roaring from the warrior and the monster echoing off the stones. Red light flashed behind her. The doors of the Prison's cells rattled. Beasts screamed behind them, as if realizing one of them had gotten out. Wanting out themselves. She clenched the Harp in one hand, Cassian's Siphon blazing in the other. She had to reach the gates. Then make it down the mountain. And then holler for Rhysand, and pray he had some sort of spell to sense his name on the wind. Then he'd have to race back up the mountain, down the path, and Cassian might be dead by the time she reached the gates so high above. He might be dying now. A cold bolt shot through her heart. She had run from him. Left him. The Harp warmed in her hand, humming. The gold gleamed as if molten. We shall open doors and pathways; we shall move through space and eons together, it had sung during her unintentional scrying. Our music will free us of earthly rules and borders. Open doors ... She had opened a door with it--to Lanthys's cell. Opened a door through its own power pressing on her. But to move through space ... The small strings are for games--light movement and leaping--but the longer, the final ones ... Such deep wonders and horrors we could strum into being. Nesta counted the strings. Twenty-six. She'd touched the first, the smallest, to free herself from the Harp's power, but what did the others do? Twenty-six, twenty-six, twenty-six ... Gwyn's voice floated from far away, recounting Merrill's earlier research on dimensions. The possibility of twenty-six dimensions. We shall move through space and eons together ... The small strings are for games--light movement and leaping ... Could the Harp ... Nesta's breath caught in her throat. Could the Harp transplant her from one place to another? Not only open a door, but create one she might walk through? Free us of earthly rules and borders ... She had to try it. For Cassian. Motion stirred in the gloom above, rushing steps headed her way. Someone had entered the Prison through the gates. Nesta angled Cassian's Siphon toward the sound, bracing for whatever monster might come barreling down-- Fae males in worn, dirty armor charged toward her. At least ten Autumn Court soldiers. She knew who'd sent them, winnowing them on Koschei's power. Who controlled them, even from across the sea. I know where you are, Nesta Archeron. And since Rhys had lowered the shields around the Prison ... they'd walked right in. Nesta didn't think. She seized that silver fire within her. Let it wreathe her hands. "Take me to Cassian," she whispered, and plucked the first silver string of the Harp. The world and oncoming soldiers vanished, and she had the sense of being thrown, even as she stood still, and she prayed and prayed-- Metal flashed, and red light flared, and there was Cassian, bleeding on the ground, Siphons blazing, fighting the mist in front of him. There was nowhere to strike a fatal blow. The mist scattered at every thrust of Cassian's sword, and Lanthys shrieked at each one, but Lanthys could not be killed. Only contained, Cassian had said. And the Harp could open doorways--but not slay people. She ran for Cassian, finger readying on the Harp's string to haul them out of there. But Cassian's eyes flared, and he yelled, "GET--" The mist wrapped around his throat and hurled him. Her scream shattered through the tunnel as he hit the rock wall, wings crunching, and fell to the floor. He didn't move. A laugh like a knife scraping over stone filled the tunnel and then Nesta was thrown, too, slamming into the wall so hard her teeth clacked and her head spun, breath whooshing from her as her fingers splayed on the Harp before she hit the floor. But she'd landed near Cassian, and she hurried to turn him over, praying his neck hadn't snapped, that she hadn't doomed him by coming here-- Cassian's chest rose and fell, and the mighty, primal thing inside her body breathed a sigh of relief. Short-lived, as Lanthys laughed again. "You shall wish the blow killed him before I'm through with you both," the creature said. "You shall wish you kept running." But Nesta refused to hear another word, not as she knelt over Cassian, the only thing between him and Lanthys. She had been here before. Had been in this exact position, his head on her lap, Death laughing at them. Then, she had curled over him and waited to die. Then, she had stopped fighting. She would not fail this time. The mist pressed in, and she could have sworn she felt a hand reach for her. It was enough to set her moving. Drawing her sword in the same movement with which she shot to her feet, Nesta slashed a perfect combination. Lanthys screamed, and it was nothing like what she'd heard before-- this was an earsplitting sound of pure shock and fury. Nesta hefted Ataraxia, settling her weight between her feet, making sure her stance was even. Unshakable. The blade began to glow. The mist contorted, shrinking and writhing as if it fought an invisible enemy, and then it became solid, blooming with color. A naked, golden-haired male stood before her. He was of average height, his golden skin sculpted with muscle, his sharp-boned face simmering with hate. Not a repulsive, awful creature, but one of beauty. His black eyes narrowed upon the blade as he hissed, "That is not Narben." The name meant nothing to her. Nesta lunged, thrusting Ataraxia into eighth position. Lanthys leaped back. Cassian groaned, stirring to consciousness as she held the ground in front of her. "Which death-god are you?" Lanthys demanded, glancing between the blade and her. The silver fire sizzling in her eyes. Nesta swung Ataraxia again, and Lanthys cringed away. Afraid of the blade. That which could not be killed was afraid of her blade. Not her, but Ataraxia. Her Made weapon. "Get in your cell." Nesta advanced a step, Ataraxia pointed before her. Lanthys backed slowly toward his cell. "What is that blade?" His golden hair swayed down to his waist as he backed away again. "Its name is Ataraxia," Nesta spat. "And it shall be the last thing you see." Lanthys burst out laughing, the sound like a crow's cawing. Hideous, compared to his beautiful form. "You named a death-sword Ataraxia?" He howled, and the very mountain shook. "It shall slay you whether you like its name or not." "Oh, I do not think so," Lanthys seethed. "I rode in the Wild Hunt before you were even a scrap of existence, witch from Oorid. I summoned the hounds and the world cowered at their baying. I galloped at the head of the Hunt, and Fae and beast bowed before us." Nesta flipped Ataraxia in her hand, a movement she'd taken to doing with the Illyrian blades in idle moments during training. She'd seen Cassian do it often, and found that it dispelled any extra energy. She hadn't realized it was such an effective intimidation technique. Lanthys shrank back. She prayed the Autumn Court soldiers coming down the path any moment would hesitate before the blade, too. Knew they wouldn't. Not with Briallyn and the Crown controlling them. "Which death-god are you?" Lanthys asked again. "Who are you beneath that flesh?" "I am nobody," she snapped. "Whose fire burns silver in your gaze?" "You know whose fire," she stalled. But it struck true, somehow. Lanthys's skin drained of color. "It is not possible." He looked to the Harp beside a stirring Cassian, and his eyes widened again. "We heard about you down here. You are the one the sea and the wind and the earth whispered of." He shuddered. "Nesta." He grinned, showing teeth slightly too long. "You took from the Cauldron itself." Lanthys halted his retreat. And extended a broad, graceful hand. "You do not even know what you could do. Come. I shall show you." He smiled again with those too-long teeth, turning his face from beauty to horror with a quirk of his lips. "Come with me, Queen of Queens, and we shall return what was once lost." The words were a lullaby, a honeyed promise. "We shall rebuild to what we were before the golden legions of the Fae cast off their chains and overthrew us. We shall resurrect the Wild Hunt and ride rampant through the night. We shall build palaces of ice and flame, palaces of darkness and starlight. Magic shall flow untethered again." Nesta could see the portrait Lanthys wove into the air around them. She saw herself on a black throne, a matching crown in her unbound hair. Enormous onyx beasts--scaled, like those she'd seen on the Hewn City's pillars--lay at the foot of the dais. Ataraxia leaned against her throne, and on her other side ... Lanthys sat there, his hand laced through hers. Their kingdom was endless; their palace built of pure magic that lived and thrived around them. The Harp sat behind them on an altar, the Mask, too, but the golden Crown wasn't there. It rested atop Lanthys's head. And that was the snarled thread that pulled her out--the naked gleam of his greed. He'd seen the Harp, known she was after the Trove, and revealed what he'd do with it. The Crown he'd claim for himself. It would have no influence over her, but their rule would be one of coercion. Enslavement. A fourth object lay on the altar, veiled in shadow. But she couldn't make out more than a gleam of age-worn bone-- The vision shifted, and they writhed on a great black bed, the golden skin of Lanthys's back shining as he moved inside her. Such pleasure--she had never known such pleasure with anyone. Only he could fuck her like this, driving so deep, her body warm and supple and wet for him, and soon, soon his seed would take root in her womb and the child she would bear him would rule entire universes-- Another snarled thread that led outward. Past the illusion. Her body was not his to touch, to fill with life. And she had known pleasure richer than what he'd shown her. Nesta blinked, and it was gone. Lanthys growled. He now stood only as far away as her reach. Ataraxia's reach. "I can take care of that problem," he snarled toward Cassian. "And you will forget those ties soon enough." She hefted Ataraxia higher. "Go back into your cell and shut the door." "I shall just escape again." Lanthys chuckled. "And when I do, I will find you, Nesta Archeron, and you shall be my queen." "No. I don't think I will." Nesta let her power ripple down the blade. Ataraxia sang, blazing like the moon. Lanthys paled. "What are you doing?" "Finishing the job." And his eyes were so fixed upon the glowing blade that he didn't spare a sideways glance to Cassian. Did not see the dagger drawn. The one Cassian threw with impeccable aim. It embedded to the hilt in Lanthys's chest. Lanthys screamed, arching, and Nesta leaped. She sliced a two-three combination, slashing straight across, letting the power of her breath, her legs, and her core carry the blade through. Ataraxia sang the heartsong of the wind as it whipped through the air. Lanthys's head and corpse fell in different directions, thumping upon the stones. Strange black blood spurted from his form, and then Cassian was there, groaning as he wrapped a hand around hers again. "The Harp," he panted, his face the portrait of pain. Blood leaked down his temple. "Pick it up and let's go. We have to get out of here." "Can you even stand?" He swayed on his feet. He wouldn't make it three steps. "Yes," he grunted. To get her out of here, she knew he'd try. Just as she knew that Lanthys was dead. Had it been the sword, or her power? Since she'd Made the sword, she supposed it technically counted as her power, but ... What could not be killed had been slain. Somehow. A small part of her delighted in it, even as the rest of her trembled. Now the scrape and thud of footsteps rushed toward them. "Autumn Court soldiers," she breathed, pointing to the dark path upward. "More of them. Briallyn sent them to get the Harp." "More--" Screaming began throughout the mountain. Petrified, pleading screaming, fists pounding. Not on the rock or the doors that held them, but on the opposite walls of their cells. As if they were begging the Prison to spare them from her and that sword. Lanthys had fallen. And the occupants of the Prison had felt it. Even the footsteps of the Autumn Court soldiers seemed to slow at the sound. Nesta smiled darkly, and picked up the Harp. "We're not running out of here. And we leave the Autumn Court soldiers untouched." If only to prove Eris wrong. But Cassian's wounds ... Yes, they needed to leave. Quickly. "Hold on to me," she commanded, and whispered, "The front lawn of Feyre's house along the Sidra River in Velaris." Cassian barked a warning, but she plucked three strings this time. Only pulling one had carried her down here, so she supposed that two would take them perhaps a bit farther than that, and Velaris ... Well, it seemed like it'd take three strings. She didn't want to know where all twenty-six strings might take her if strummed. Or if someone made a melody. The world vanished; again she had the sensation of falling while standing still, and then-- Sun and grass and a crisp autumn breeze. A massive, lovely estate behind them, the river before them, and not a trace of the Prison or Lanthys. Nesta let go of Cassian as Rhysand burst out of the house's glass doors. He gaped at his friend, and when Nesta beheld Cassian in the daylight ... Blood trickled from his hair down his cheek. His lip was split; his arm hung at an odd angle-- That was all Nesta saw before Cassian collapsed to the grass. <|title|>Chapter 55 <|startofchapter|>"It's a small cut. Stop fussing." "Your skull was cracked, and your arm was broken. You're grounded for a few days." "You can't be serious." "Oh, I most certainly am." Nesta might have smiled at Cassian and Rhysand's standoff had she not agreed with the High Lord. Feyre stood beside her mate, concern tightening her features. Ataraxia still weighed heavy in Nesta's hand. The Harp in the other. Her sister's eyes slid to her. Nesta swallowed, holding Feyre's gaze. She prayed that her sister could read the silent words on her face. I am sorry for what I said to you in Amren's apartment. I am truly sorry. Feyre's eyes softened. And then, to Nesta's shock, Feyre answered into her mind, Don't worry about it. Nesta steeled herself, shaking off her surprise. She'd forgotten that her sister was ... What was the word? Daemati. Able to mind-speak, as Rhys could. Nesta said, heart thundering, I spoke in anger, and I'm sorry. Feyre's pause was considerable. Then she said, the words like the first rays of dawn, I forgive you. Nesta tried not to sag. She intended to ask about the baby, but Rhys turned to her and said, "Put the Harp on the desk, Nesta." Nesta did, careful not to touch any of the twenty-six silver strings. "It allowed you to winnow within and outside of the Prison," Feyre said, peering at the Harp. "I suppose because it is Made, and exists beyond the rules of ordinary magic?" She glanced to Rhys, who shrugged. Feyre's mouth pursed. "If any of our enemies got their hands on this, they'd use it against us in a heartbeat. No wards around this house, the House of Wind, around any of our caches and hiding places would be safe. Not to mention that the Harp seems to have a will of its own--a desire to stir up trouble. We can't plant it back in the Prison, not now that it's been awakened." Rhys rubbed his jaw. "So we lock it up with the Mask, warded and spelled so it can't act out again." "I'd keep them separate," Feyre advised. "Remember what happened when the halves of the Book were near each other? And why make it easier for an enemy to get both of them?" "Good point," Cassian said, wincing as if the words made his skull ache. Madja had healed the hairline fracture just above his temple, but he'd be in pain for a few days. And his broken arm was healed, but still delicate enough to require care. The sight of all the bandages was enough to make Nesta wish she could kill Lanthys again. Rhys drummed his fingers on the desk, surveying the Harp. Then he asked Nesta, "Beyond seeing Briallyn, you said you also saw something when you first touched the Harp?" Nesta had briefly explained it when they'd arrived. "I think whoever used it last did something horrible with it. Maybe trapped the people who once lived on the Prison's island in the walls, somehow. Is that possible?" Doubt shone in Rhys's eyes. Nesta asked, "What is the Wild Hunt?" She'd also told him of their encounter with Lanthys, and the presence of the Autumn Court soldiers. Cassian had convinced Rhys not to engage with them, at least until they could deal with Briallyn. When Rhys had raised his shield around the Prison once more, they'd already vanished. Rhys blew out a breath, leaning back in his chair. "Honestly, I thought it mere myth. That Lanthys remembers such a thing ... Well, there's always room for lying, I suppose, but on the off chance he was telling the truth, that'd make him more than fifteen thousand years old." Feyre asked, "So what is it, then?" Rhys lifted a hand, and a book of legends from a shelf behind him floated to his fingers. He laid it upon the desk. He flipped it open to a page, revealing an image of a group of tall, strange-looking beings with crowns atop their heads. "The Fae were not the first masters of this world. According to our oldest legends, most now forgotten, we were created by beings who were near-gods--and monsters. The Daglan. They ruled for millennia, and enslaved us and the humans. They were petty and cruel and drank the magic of the land like wine." Rhys's eyes flicked to Ataraxia, then to Cassian. "Some strains of the mythology claim that one of the Fae heroes who rose up to overthrow them was Fionn, who was given the great sword Gwydion by the High Priestess Oleanna, who had dipped it into the Cauldron itself. Fionn and Gwydion overthrew the Daglan. A millennium of peace followed, and the lands were divided into rough territories that were the precursors to the courts--but at the end of those thousand years, they were at each other's throats, on the brink of war." His face tightened. "Fionn unified them and set himself above them as High King. The first and only High King this land has ever had." Nesta could have sworn the last words were spoken with a sharp look toward Cassian. But Cassian only winked at Rhys. "What happened to the High King?" Feyre asked. Rhys ran a hand over a page of the book. "Fionn was betrayed by his queen, who had been leader of her own territory, and by his dearest friend, who was his general. They killed him, taking some of his bloodline's most powerful and precious weapons, and then out of the chaos that followed, the seven High Lords rose, and the courts have been in place ever since." Feyre asked, "Does Amren remember this?" Rhys shook his head. "Only vaguely now. From what I've gleaned, she arrived during those years before Fionn and Gwydion rose, and went into the Prison during the Age of Legends--the time when this land was full of heroic figures who were keen to hunt down the last members of their former masters' race. They feared Amren, believing her one of their enemies, and threw her into the Prison. When she emerged again, she'd missed Fionn's fall and the loss of Gwydion, and found the High Lords ruling." Nesta considered all Lanthys had said. "And what is Narben?" "Lanthys asked about it?" "He said my sword isn't Narben. He sounded surprised." Rhys studied her blade. "Narben is a death-sword. It's lost, possibly destroyed, but stories say it can slay even monsters like Lanthys." "So can Nesta's sword, apparently," Feyre said, studying the blade as well. "Beheading him with it killed him," Rhys mused. "A slice from it seemed to bind him into a physical form," Nesta corrected. "Cassian's dagger struck true only after Lanthys had been forced to give up his mist." "Interesting," Rhys murmured. Cassian said, "You still haven't explained the Wild Hunt." Rhys turned a few pages in the book, to an illustration of a host of riders on horses and all manner of beasts. "The Daglan delighted in terrorizing the Fae and humans under their control. The Wild Hunt was a way to keep all of us in line. They'd gather a host of their fiercest, most merciless warriors and grant them free rein to kill as they pleased. The Daglan possessed mighty, monstrous beasts--hounds, they called them, though they didn't look like the hounds we know--that they used to run prey to ground before they tortured and killed them. It's a terrible history, and much of it might be elaborated myths." "The hounds looked like the beasts in the Hewn City," Nesta said quietly. They all looked at her. She admitted, "Lanthys showed me a vision. Of ... what he and I might be. Together. We ruled in a palace, king and queen with the Trove, and at our feet sat those hounds. They looked like the scaled beasts carved into the Hewn City's pillars." Even Rhys had no answer to that. Cassian's jaw tightened. "So even while he tried to kill you, he was trying to seduce you?" Nesta's stomach churned, but she refrained from mentioning how graphic that vision had been. "There was a fourth object in the vision, but it was in shadow--was there ever a fourth part of the Trove? All I could make out was a bit of ancient bone." Rhys ran a hand through his dark hair. "As far as history has confirmed, there are only three objects in the Trove." Feyre asked, "What if it's protected by a spell, like the one to shield all thought of the Trove, to keep people from ever knowing about the fourth object?" Rhys's eyes shadowed. "Then the Mother spare us, because even Amren only vaguely remembers a rumor of it." The words hung there. Nesta asked, "So. Now I go after the Crown." "No," Cassian said, his pain-hazed eyes sharpening. Feyre nodded in agreement. "Briallyn knows we have the other two items. She sent those soldiers to get the Harp." Cassian growled. "I thought Eris was being an asshole, but when I told him about the two dozen soldiers in Oorid, he said there had been more in the unit that disappeared." He rubbed his jaw. "I should have listened. Should have looked into it. Briallyn had another dozen waiting to attack." Self-loathing filled his face, and Nesta suppressed the urge to reach for his hand. Feyre countered, "Eris spews enough bullshit on a good day that anyone might miss an offhanded comment like that, Cass. At least we can now tell Eris where the rest of his soldiers are." Nesta could have hugged her sister for the relief that bowed Cassian's shoulders upon hearing her words. For all his arrogance, the opinions of his friends, his family, mattered deeply. None of them would ever chide him for failure, but he'd punish himself for it. Nesta brushed her fingers against Cassian's in silent understanding. His own curled against hers, meeting her stare as if to say, See? We're the same after all. Feyre went on, "If Briallyn wants the Mask and the Harp badly enough that she acted so swiftly today, she'll keep coming to us. And we'll be waiting for her." A fierce light entered her eyes. Rhys frowned. "Even with just the Crown, though, Briallyn can do a great deal of damage. For all we know, Beron is under her control, as in thrall to her as Eris's soldiers are. We need to put an end to her and retrieve the Crown. Before war truly erupts." "It's too risky," Feyre countered. "We pursued the Cauldron in Hybern and it went badly." "Then we learn from our mistakes," Rhys challenged. "She'll have set a trap," Feyre said. "We don't go after it." Silence fell before Rhysand said, "Then we need to secure wartime alliances again--and fast. And do some damage control on the ones we already have that might be strained." Cassian arched a brow, worry shining in his eyes. "You sound as if you have an idea." "Eris is coming to the Winter Solstice celebration at the Hewn City," Rhys said. It was fast approaching, Nesta realized. "He's shaken by Tamlin catching you two meeting with him, and wondering if we'll balk from the alliance now that there's the slim chance Tamlin might reveal it. Or decide to sell him out first. We need to remind Eris of our continued commitment, and that he is ... important to us. That we have his back." Cassian snarled with disgust; Feyre echoed the expression. "So buy him a present," Feyre said, waving a hand, "and tell him we all send our love." "He'll want more than that," Rhys said, mouth twitching, and his eyes fell upon Nesta. Cassian straightened before Rhys could even speak. "You're not going to use her." Feyre glanced between them, and after a second, as if her mate had spoken into her mind, she demanded, "Really, Rhys?" Rhys leaned back, and Nesta frowned, the only one of them apparently not aware of what this meant. Rhys said to her, "You don't have to do anything you don't wish to. But Elain mentioned that you have particular skill on the dance floor. Skill that once won you the hand of a duke in a single waltz." She'd forgotten that night, the blur of jewels and silks and that duke's handsome face. All she'd felt then was wild, savage triumph. "Over my dead fucking body," Cassian exploded. Nesta asked, "You want me to dance with Eris?" Her heart began to pound, not entirely with fear. "I want you to seduce him," Rhys said. "Not into bed, but to make him realize what he might attain once he understands that we have no plans to break this alliance. To weigh the benefits more strongly than the risks." Nesta crossed her arms, ignoring Cassian's pointed glare, silently demanding that she dismiss this notion entirely. "You really think my dancing with Eris will solidify his loyalty?" "I think Eris is our ally, and will expect to dance with a lady of this court at the ball no matter what. I won't let Feyre within five feet of him, Mor might kill him, and Amren is more likely to scare him off than win him over, so you and Elain are the only options." "Elain doesn't go near him," Feyre said. "And you won't let me near him?" Rhys threw her a charming smile. "You know what I mean." Feyre rolled her eyes. "You're becoming insufferable." She turned to Nesta. "Eris isn't ... He's not good. He's not like Beron, but he ..." "I know what he did to Morrigan," Nesta said. Or rather, what he didn't do: help her, when her family had brutalized her and dumped her over the Autumn Court border as punishment for ruining their marriage alliance. Eris had found her, and then merely walked away. "I dealt with him the other day. I know what I'd be getting into with him." "Mor," Rhys went on, "can teach you the dances. She had to learn all of them, and since she still presides over the Court of Nightmares, she's the best one to instruct you." "Nesta hasn't agreed to anything," Cassian snapped. "Even one dance with that prick is too much--" "I'll do it," Nesta cut in, if only to spite him for being so ... territorial. She glanced to the sword still in her hand. "I just killed an immortal being. Eris is nothing. And if it will make him remember why he wants to be allied with us, make him think he might attain me if he holds up his end, then fine." "He's already our ally," Cassian countered. "One dance is really going to secure his continued cooperation?" "We need to show Eris that we respect and trust him," Feyre conceded with a defeated sigh. "Even if we don't. And letting him dance with one of our family is proof of that--at least for someone from the Autumn Court. If he winds up eating out of Nesta's hand, fantastic. If it just makes him remember that we're on his side, good. But these bonds have to be maintained." "I don't like it," Cassian growled. "You don't have to like it," Feyre said, head lifting, full of that High Lady's authority. "You just have to watch from the sidelines and not look like you want to rip his head off." Nesta cut in, "Tell Morrigan I'll meet with her for dancing lessons whenever she's available." Feyre and Cassian, still bristling at each other, silently turned toward her. Nesta approached the desk, laying Ataraxia there. "Here," she said to Rhys. "You can take it back." Rhys said nothing, but Feyre's brows rose. "Why don't you keep it?" Cassian's curious stare seared her like a brand, but Nesta only said, "I have no interest in more death." Nesta inhaled through her nose for a count of six, held her breath for a few seconds, then exhaled through her mouth for another six beats. In the quiet of her bedroom that night, settled in the chair, she focused on her breath, nothing more. Any thoughts that came in, she acknowledged and let pass. Even if some kept returning. She didn't care where they hid the Harp. If they needed her blood to ward it as they had for the Mask, they'd let her know. But the thought of what came next-- Breathe. Count. Nesta inhaled again, attention fixing on her expanding ribs, the feeling of the breath in her body. Even weeks into it, some days' Mind-Stilling exercises were harder than others. But she kept at it, ten minutes in the morning and ten minutes at night. Nesta exhaled, counting. Kept going. That was all she supposed she could do: just keep going. One day, one breath at a time. She let that thought go, too. Breathed and breathed, and then stopped the counting altogether. Let her mind wander. But her mind did not shoot in every direction. It remained calm. Resting. Content right where it was. War had left the cottage untouched. But the harsh winters since Nesta had last seen it had not been so kind. Azriel had winnowed her and Cassian here after training, but hadn't lingered. Apparently, Gwyn wanted him to go over dagger handling, so he'd left them with a promise to return in an hour. Nesta had no idea if an hour would be too much, or too little. Had no idea why she'd asked Cassian to come here with her, really. But she'd gotten it into her head that she needed to visit. To see this place. The midday autumn sun made the disrepair all the more stark: the thatched roof that had molded or balded in spots, the overgrown weeds already turning brown before the winter, rising up to the small windows in the stone walls. Nesta's throat tightened, but she forced herself to walk toward the entry. Cassian remained silent behind her, footsteps so quiet he could have been the brisk wind through the too-tall grasses. His head and arm had been fully healed by this morning, two days after Nesta had agreed to bewitch Eris. Cassian had even exercised alongside her earlier, though at a slower pace than usual. Like he was indeed heeding Rhys and Madja's warning to go easy. That he'd gone through the exercises without grimacing had caused some intrinsic part of her to sigh with relief--and dare ask him to join her today. She'd never have invited him along if he'd still been injured. Not that there was much of an enemy here to pose a threat. No humans wandered the leaf-strewn road beyond the cottage; only a few birds chirped a halfhearted melody from the almost barren trees. Muted, drab, and empty. That was how this land felt, even with autumn upon it. As if even the sun couldn't be bothered to shine properly here. Nesta's heart thundered as she laid a hand against the cold wooden door. Claw marks still gouged it. "Tamlin's handiwork, I take it?" Cassian asked behind her. Nesta shrugged, unable to find the words. She and Elain had rehung the door after Tamlin had broken it. Their father, his leg wrecked beyond repair and unable to bear weight, had watched them, offering unhelpful advice. Her fingers curled into a fist and she shouldered the door open. Its rusted hinges objected, creaking, and a dusty, half-rotten scent swarmed her nose. Her cheeks heated. For Cassian to be here, to see this-- "Just a brute, remember?" He stepped to her side. "I've lived in far worse. At least you had walls and a roof." Nesta hadn't realized how much she needed to hear those words, and her shoulders loosened as she stepped into the cottage proper. In the chill dimness, broken only by rays of sunlight, she frowned at the ceiling. "This house used to have a roof." The damage had let in all manner of creatures and weather--the former had made themselves comfortable, judging by the nests and various scattered droppings. Nesta's mouth turned dry. This horrible, awful, dark place. She couldn't stop her shaking. Cassian laid a hand on her shoulder. "Walk me through it." She couldn't. Couldn't find the words. He pointed to a long worktable. One leg had collapsed, and the whole thing lay at a slant. "You ate here?" She nodded. They'd eaten here, some meals in silence, some with her and Elain trying to fill the quiet with their idle chatter, some with her and Feyre at each other's throats. Like those last meals they'd had with her in this house. Nesta's stare drifted to the paint flaking off the walls. The intricate little designs. Cassian followed her stare. "Did Feyre paint that?" Nesta swallowed, and managed to get out, "She painted every chance she got. Any extra coin she managed to save went toward paints." "Have you ever seen what she's done to the cabin up in the mountains?" "No." She'd never been there. "Feyre painted the whole thing. Just like this. She told me once that there's a dresser here ..." Nesta aimed for the bedroom. "This one?" Cassian followed her, and gods, it was so cramped and dark and smelly. The bed was still covered with its stained linens. The three of them had slept here for years. Cassian ran a hand over the painted dresser, marveling. "She really did paint stars for herself before she knew Rhys was her mate. Before she knew he existed." His fingers traced the twining vines of flowers on the second drawer. "Elain's drawer." They drifted lower, curling over a lick of flame. "And yours." Nesta managed a grunt of confirmation, her chest tight to the point of pain. There in the corner sat a pair of worn, half-rotted shoes. Her shoes. One of them was bursting at the toe's seam. She'd worn those shoes--in public. Could still remember mud and stones creeping in. Her heart thundered, and she walked out of the room, back into the main space. She didn't mean to, but she looked toward the dark fireplace. Toward the mantel. Her father's wood figurines lay atop it, thickly coated with dust and cobwebs. Some had been knocked over, presumably by whatever creatures now lived here. That familiar roaring filled her ears, and Nesta's steps thudded too loudly on the dusty floorboards as she approached the fireplace. A carving of a rearing bear--no bigger than her fist--sat in the center. Nesta's fingers shook as she picked it up and blew off the dust. "He had some skill," Cassian said quietly. "Not enough," Nesta said, setting the bear back onto the stone mantel. She was going to vomit. No. She could master this. Master herself. And face what lay before her. She inhaled through her nose. Exhaled through her mouth. Counted the breaths. Cassian stood beside her through all of it. Not speaking, not touching. Just there, should she need him. Her friend--whom she'd asked to come here with her not because he was sharing her bed, but because she wanted him here. His steadiness and kindness and understanding. She plucked another figurine from the mantel: a rose carved from a dark sort of wood. She held it in her palm, its solid weight surprising, and traced a finger over one of the petals. "He made this one for Elain. Since it was winter and she missed the flowers." "Did he ever make any for you?" "He knew better than to do that." She inhaled a shuddering breath, held it, released it. Let her mind calm. "I think he would have, if I'd given him the smallest bit of encouragement, but ... I never did. I was too angry." "You'd had your life overturned. You were allowed to be angry." "That's not what you told me the first time we met." She pivoted to find him arching a brow. "You told me I was a piece of shit for letting my younger sister go into the woods to hunt while I did nothing." "I didn't say it like that." "The message was the same." She squared her shoulders, turning to the small, broken cot in the shadows beyond the fireplace. "And you were right." He didn't reply as she strode to the cot. "My father slept here for years, letting us have the bedroom. That bed in there ... I was born in that bed. My mother died in that bed. I hate that bed." She ran a hand over the cracking wood of the cot's frame. Splinters snagged at her fingertips. "But I hate this cot even more. He'd drag it in front of the fire every night and curl up there, huddling under the blankets. I always thought he looked so ... so weak. Like a cowering animal. It enraged me." "Does it enrage you now?" A casual, but careful question. "It ..." Her throat worked. "I thought him sleeping here was a fitting punishment while we got the bed. It never occurred to me that he wanted us to have the bed, to keep warm and be as comfortable as we could. That we'd only been able to take a few items of furniture from our former home and he'd chosen that bed as one of them. For our comfort. So we didn't have to sleep on cots, or on the floor." She rubbed at her chest. "I wouldn't even let him sleep in the bed when the debtors shattered his leg. I was so lost in my grief and rage and ... and sorrow, that I wanted him to feel a fraction of what I did." Her stomach churned. He squeezed her shoulder, but said nothing. "He had to have known that," she said hoarsely. "He had to have known how awful I was, and yet ... he never yelled. That enraged me, too. And then he named a ship after me. Sailed it into battle. I just ... I don't understand why." "You were his daughter." "And that's an explanation?" She scanned his face, the sadness etched there. Sadness--for her. For the ache in her chest and the stinging in her eyes. "Love is complicated." She dropped his stare at that. She was a coward for avoiding his gaze. But she lifted her chin. "I never once considered what it was like for him. To go from this man who had made his own fortune, become known as the Prince of Merchants, and then lose everything. I don't think losing my mother broke him the same way as losing his fleet. He'd been so sure the venture would gain him even more wealth--an obscene amount of wealth. People told him he was mad, but he refused to listen. When they were proved right ... I think that humiliation broke him as much as the financial loss." She studied the calluses already building across her fingers and palms. "The debtors seemed gleeful when they came here--like they'd resented him all this time and were more than happy to take it out on his leg. I spent the entire time more terrified for what they'd do to me and Elain. Feyre ... She tried to get them to stop. Stayed here with him while we hid in the bedroom." She made herself meet Cassian's gaze again. "I didn't just fail Feyre by letting her go into the woods. There were plenty of other times." "Have you ever told her this?" Nesta snorted. "No. I don't know how." He studied her, and she resisted the urge to squirm under the scrutiny. "You'll learn how. When you're ready." "How very wise of you." Cassian sketched a bow. Despite this house, the history all around her, Nesta smiled. She pocketed the carved rose. "I've seen enough." He arched a brow. "Really?" She clenched the wooden rose in her pocket. "I think I just needed to see this place. One last time. To know we got out. That there's nothing left here except dust and bad memories." He slid an arm around her waist as they walked for the door, again surveying all the little paintings Feyre had squeezed into the cottage. "Az won't be back for a little while. Let's go flying." "What about the humans?" They'd run screaming in terror. Cassian gave her a wicked smile, opening that half-broken door for her. Leading her into the sunlight and clean air. "It'll add a little spice to their days." <|title|>Chapter 56 <|startofchapter|>A month passed, and winter crept upon Velaris like hoarfrost over a windowpane. Morning training became a chilled affair, their breath clouding the frosted air as they worked with swords and knives, the metal so cold it bit into their palms. Even their shields sometimes became crusted with frost. Valkyries learned to fight in all kinds of weather, Gwyn told them. Especially the cold. So when snow fell occasionally, Nesta and the others trained, too. Nesta had to switch into another size of leathers, and when she looked in the mirror each morning to braid her hair, the face that stared back had lost its gauntness, the shadows beneath the eyes. Even with Cassian fucking her on every surface of the House, sometimes until the early hours of the morning, the exhaustion, the purple bruises under her eyes, had vanished. She told herself it didn't matter that he never stayed in her bed afterward to hold her. She wondered when he'd grow tired of it--of her. Surely he'd get bored and move on. Even if he feasted on her each night as if he were starving. Gripped her thighs in his powerful hands and licked and suckled at her until she writhed. Sometimes she straddled his face, hands clenching the headboard, and rode his tongue until she came on it. Sometimes it was her tongue on him, around him, and she swallowed down every drop he spilled into her mouth. Sometimes he spilled on her chest, her stomach, her back, and she came at the first splash of him on her skin. She couldn't imagine tiring of him. Having him over and over only made her need grow. She'd been practicing dances with Morrigan in the House study twice a week, the two of them barely swapping more than a few words as Nesta learned waltz after waltz, some particular to the Hewn City, others to the Autumn Court, others to the Fae in general. Rhys had given them the Veritas orb so Morrigan might share with Nesta her memories of the dances--and the music that accompanied them. Nesta had watched the steps, the balls and parties that were sometimes full of light and others that had darkness and sorrow around the edges. Morrigan had offered no explanation beyond comments about a dancer's technique. The music, though ... It was brilliant. So full of life and motion that she always found herself wishing she had another hour or two of lessons just to hear it again and again and again. No one ever showed up to watch them, not even Cassian. If Morrigan reported on their progress, she never let on. Now, with Winter Solstice three days away, Morrigan was wrapping up her lesson as snow drifted past the wall of windows. She asked Nesta suddenly, "What are you wearing to the ball, anyway?" Nesta, leaning against the worktable to catch her breath and listening to the strains of the violin through the Veritas orb's shimmering mirage, shrugged. "One of my dresses." "Oh, no." Sweat beaded on Morrigan's brow, and her braided golden hair curled slightly with the moisture. "Eris ..." She searched for the words. "He's all about appearances. You have to wear the right thing." Nesta considered what Morrigan usually wore, and frowned. "I can't wear something that revealing." Both Morrigan and Feyre opted for less is more when it came to their Hewn City attire. Nesta had no issues with nudity before her bedroom partners, but in public ... The human had not been ripped from her entirely. "I'll look around." Morrigan pushed off the windowsill. "See what we have." "Thank you, Morrigan." It was the first normal conversation they'd had. The first time Nesta had even uttered those words to Morrigan. Ever said her name. Morrigan blinked, realizing it, too. "It's just Mor, you know. Amren is the only person in this court who calls me Morrigan, and that's because she's a cranky old bastard." Nesta's lips twitched upward. "Very well, then." She added, trying it out, "Mor." The clock chimed one, and Nesta began walking out the door, leaving the orb and its soaring music where it lay on the desk. "I need to head to the library." She was already going to be late, but the music had been so enthralling she hadn't wanted to stop. "So do I, actually," Morrigan--Mor--said, and they fell into step in the hall. "The work I'm doing for Rhys and Feyre in Vallahan requires some research, and Clotho has been looking into it for me." "Ah." Stilted silence fell as they strode down the stairs, then into another hall. The towering doors to the library appeared before Nesta asked, "Does it bother you that I'll be dancing with Eris?" Mor considered. "No. Because I know you're going to make him crawl before the end of it." It wasn't a compliment. Not really. They found Clotho at her usual desk. She rose, greeting Mor with an embrace that left Nesta speechless. "My old friend," Mor said, her face lit with warmth. The face she showed everyone in this court except for Nesta. And those in the Hewn City. Shame tightened Nesta's gut. But she said nothing as Clotho's enchanted pen and paper wrote, You look well, Mor. "Eh." Mor lifted a shoulder. "Nesta's been running me ragged with dancing lessons, but I've been fine." I found the books you requested. Clotho placed a crooked hand atop a pile of books on her desk. Nesta took that as her cue to leave, and nodded to the females as they fell into a discussion about the material. Gwyn was waiting a level below, watching them--with Emerie in the stacks behind her. "What are you doing here?" Nesta asked Emerie. She'd still been in the training ring when Nesta had hurried off to her dancing lesson. But that had been hours ago. "I wanted to see where you two work," Emerie said, eyes upon Clotho and Mor a level above. She sighed, nodding toward Mor. "I always forget how beautiful she is. "She never comes to Windhaven these days." Nesta could have sworn pink stole over Emerie's brown cheeks. Indeed, in the library's deep gloom, Mor shone like a ray of sunshine. Even the darkness at its bottom seemed to slither away. "I was showing Emerie the wonders of Merrill's office while she's off at a meeting," Gwyn said. "I've got to go work, but I thought you could bring her around while you shelve." Gwyn threw her a wry glance. "And dance." Nesta rolled her eyes. She might have been caught practicing her waltzes in the stacks once or twice. Or ten times. Nesta nodded to Emerie, drawing the female's gaze away from Mor's animated hand gestures. "Come on." But Gwyn said, "Actually, before you two go, I wanted to give you something. Since it's probably the last time we'll see each other until Winter Solstice is over." Nesta and Emerie swapped confused looks. The latter asked, "You got us presents?" Gwyn only said, "I'll meet you down at your cart." With that, she dashed into the gloom. Emerie and Nesta aimed for Level Five, where Nesta had left her cart. It had been replenished with books needing to be shelved. She explained what she did, but Emerie seemed to be half-listening. Her face had gone pale. "What?" Nesta asked. Emerie's brows bunched. "I ... I must not have drunk enough water during training." They'd tried out two new Valkyrie techniques that Gwyn had found the night before, and both had been particularly brutal, ordering them to use shields as springboards for launching a fellow Valkyrie into the skies, and to do their abdominal curls bearing the weights of those shields. No one had managed to cut the ribbon, though Emerie had nicked an edge two days ago. "What's wrong?" Nesta pressed. Emerie's eyes turned bleak. "It's ... I swear, I can hear my father yelling down here." Her hands trembled as she lifted one to brush a strand of hair behind an ear. "I can hear him screaming at me, can hear the furniture breaking ..." Nesta's blood went cold. She whipped her head to the downward slope to their right. No darkness lurked there, but they were low enough ... "This place is ancient and strange," she said, even as she processed what Emerie had admitted. She had never spoken of her father beyond the wing clipping. But Nesta had gathered enough: the man had been a beast like Tomas Mandray's father. "Let's go up a level, where the darkness doesn't whisper so loudly. I'm sure Gwyn will find us easily enough." She linked her arm with Emerie's, pressing her body close, letting some of her warmth leak into her friend. Emerie nodded, though she remained wan. Nesta wondered if Emerie heard her father's bellowing every step of the way. Gwyn did find them, the priestess panting and flushed as she handed out two rectangular parcels, each roughly the size of a large, thin book. "One for each of you." Nesta opened the brown paper and beheld a stack of pages filled with writing. At the top of the first page, it merely said, Chapter Twenty-One. She read the first few lines beneath it, then nearly dropped the pages. "This--this is about us." Gwyn beamed. "I convinced Merrill to add us into the penultimate chapter. She even let me write it--with her own annotations, of course. But it's about the rebirth of the Valkyries. About what we're doing." Nesta had no words. Emerie's hands were once more shaking as she leafed through the pages. "You had this much to say about us?" Emerie said, choking on a laugh. Gwyn rubbed her hands together. "With more to come." Nesta read a line at random on the fifth page. Whether the sun beat hot on their brows or freezing rain turned their bones to ice, Nesta, Emerie, and Gwyneth arrived at practice each morning, ready to... The back of her throat ached; her eyes stung. "We're in a book." Gwyn's fingers slid into hers, squeezing tight. Nesta looked up to find her holding Emerie's free hand as well. Gwyn smiled again, her eyes bright. "Our stories are worth telling." Nesta was still reeling from the generosity of Gwyn's gift that evening when she found a note from Cassian, telling her he needed to stay overnight in one of the Illyrian outposts to deal with some petty squabble between war-bands. With the Blood Rite mere months away, he'd said, tensions were always high, but this year seemed particularly bad. New feuds popping up every few days, old grudges resurfacing ... Nesta, despite the note's contents, had smiled to herself, picturing Cassian's take-no-bullshit face as he laid down the law. But her amusement had soon faded, and though she tried Mind-Stilling twice after dinner, she couldn't get herself to settle. Kept thinking of Gwyn's gift, of Emerie's terrified face as she sensed whatever was in the darkness. Sitting at her desk, staring at nothing, Nesta cupped her forehead in her palm. A mug of hot chocolate appeared beside her, along with a handful of shortbread. Nesta chuckled. "Thank you." She sipped from her drink, nearly sighing at the richness of the cocoa. "I'd like to try a fire," she said quietly. "A small one." Instantly, the House had a tiny blaze going in the fireplace. A log popped, and Nesta straightened, stomach twisting. It was a fire. Not her father's neck. Her gaze shifted to the carved wooden rose she'd placed upon the mantel, half-hidden in the shadows beside a figurine of a supple-bodied female, her upraised arms clasping a full moon between them. Some sort of primal goddess--perhaps even the Mother herself. Nesta hadn't let herself dwell on why she'd felt the need to set the rose there. Why she hadn't just thrown it in a drawer. Another log cracked, and Nesta flinched. But she remained sitting there. Staring at that carved rose. Would she live the rest of her life like Emerie, always glancing over a shoulder for the shadow of the past to haunt her? Did she appear as Emerie had this afternoon, terrified and pained? She owed herself more than that. Emerie, too, deserved more. A chance to live a life without fear and dread. So Nesta could try. Right now. She'd face this fire. Another log cracked. Nesta ground her teeth. Breathe. Inhale for six, hold, exhale for six. She did just that. This is a fire. It reminds you of your father, of something horrible happening. But this is not him, and while you are feeling uncomfortable, you can get through it. Nesta focused on her breathing. Made herself unclench each of her too- tight muscles, starting with her face and working all the way down to her toes. All while she told herself, over and over, This is a fire. It makes you uncomfortable. This is why you react as you do. You can breathe through this. Work through this. Her body didn't loosen, but she was able to sit there. Endure the fire until it dimmed to embers, and then went out entirely. She didn't know why she found herself on the verge of tears as the cinders smoldered. Didn't know why the rush of pride that filled her chest made her want to laugh and whoop and dance around the room. She hadn't done anything more than sit by a fire, but ... she had sat. Stayed. She had not failed. She had faced it and survived. She might not have saved the world or led armies, but she had made this small, initial step. Nesta wiped at her eyes, and when she looked around her quiet room, she startled to find a trail of evergreen twigs leading to her now-open door. Cocking a brow, she rose. "What's all this about?" she asked the House, following the trail it had left. Down the hall, along the stairs, all the way down to the library itself. "Where are we going?" Nesta asked the warm air. Mercifully, even the night owls amongst the priestesses had gone to sleep, leaving no one to see her hurrying after the trail of branches. Around the levels of the library they twined, deeper and deeper, until they reached the seventh level. Nesta drew up short as the trail stopped at the edge of the wall of darkness. A light flickered beyond it. Several lights. As if to say, Come. Don tt be afraid. So Nesta sucked in a breath as she stepped into the gloom. Little tea lights wended into a familiar darkness. She and Feyre had once ventured down here--had faced horrors here. No evidence remained of that day. Only the firelit dimness, the candles leading her to the lowest levels of the library. To the pit itself. Nesta followed them, spiraling to the bottom of the pit, where one small lantern glowed, faintly illuminating the rows of books veiled in permanent shadow around it. Heart racing, Nesta lifted the lantern in one hand and gazed at the darkness, untouched by the light from the library high, high above. The heart of the world, of existence. Of self. The heart of the House. "This ..." Her fingers tightened on the lantern. "This darkness is your heart." As if in answer, the House laid a little evergreen sprig at her feet. "A Winter Solstice present. For me." She could have sworn a warm hand brushed her neck in answer. "But your darkness ..." Wonder softened her voice. "You were trying to show me. Show others. Who you are, down deep. What haunts you. You were trying to show them all those dark, broken pieces because the priestesses, and Emerie, and I... We're the same as you." Her throat constricted at what the House had gifted her. This knowledge. She lifted the lantern higher and blew out its flame. Let the darkness sweep in. Embraced it. "I'm not afraid," she whispered into it. "You are my friend, and my home. Thank you for sharing this with me." Again, Nesta could have sworn that phantom touch caressed her neck, her cheek, her brow. "Happy Solstice," she said into the beautiful, fractured darkness. <|title|>Chapter 57 <|startofchapter|>Cassian normally looked forward to Winter Solstice for a host of reasons, starting with the usual three days of drinking with his family and ending with the riotous fun of his annual snowball fight with his brothers. Followed by a steam in the birchin and more drinking, usually until all three of them passed out in variously stupid positions. One year, he'd awoken wearing a blond wig and nothing but an evergreen garland around his groin like a loincloth. It had itched and scratched awfully--though it was nothing compared to his pounding hangover. He supposed, at its root, he loved the Winter Solstice because it was uninterrupted time with the people he treasured most. This year, just as it had last year, it filled him with nothing but churning acid. The Court of Nightmares was decorated as it usually was, adorned for the celebration that lasted three whole days surrounding the longest night of the year. Each night held a different ball, and at the first of them, Nesta would dance with Eris. Tonight. In a matter of moments. He'd had a month to prepare for this. A month of being in Nesta's bed --or at least fucking her in it. The Cauldron knew she hadn't ever asked him to stay after he pulled out of her. He stood at the foot of the black dais, staring out at the glittering throng with a face that promised death. Az stood on the other side of the dais, wearing a similar expression. Each and every one of the people here could fucking burn in hell. Starting with Keir, at the head of the gathered crowd. Ending with Eris, standing proud and tall--wearing Night Court black--beside him. Mor stood by Feyre's and Rhysand's thrones, representing them until they arrived. The entire throne room was bedecked in black candles, evergreen wreaths and garlands, and holly berries. The twin banquet tables flanking either side of the massive space overflowed with food, but it was forbidden to all until Feyre and Rhys allowed it. He'd lightened some of his Night Triumphant demeanor with the people of the Hewn City lately, but not by much. Cassian didn't envy Rhys his juggling act. They couldn't isolate Keir, not if they were to need his Darkbringers again. Hence the nicer tone. But they couldn't let him forget the ass-kicking he'd receive if he stepped out of line. Hence the only slightly nicer tone. They'd heard nothing of the Crown, nothing from Briallyn. She had not come for the Trove. Cassian wasn't stupid enough to believe it was over. None of them were. The towering doors to the throne room at last yawned open. Dark power rumbled through the mountain, warning of their approach. The mountain sang with it. Everyone turned as the High Lord and High Lady appeared, crowned and garbed in black. Rhys looked his usual handsome self, but Feyre ... The room gasped. Tonight also served another purpose: to tell the world of Feyre's pregnancy. She wore a dress of sparkling black panels, much like the one she'd first worn here--and it did nothing to hide her swelling belly. No, it showed off her pregnant womb, gleaming in the candlelight. Rhys's face was a portrait of smug, male pride. Cassian knew he'd shred anyone who so much as blinked wrong at Feyre into a million bloody ribbons. Indeed, cold violence rippled off Rhys as they walked toward the dais, Feyre's baby-rich scent filling the air. He'd let everyone here smell it, further confirming that she was with child. Feyre might as well have been a goddess of old, crowned and glowing, her belly swollen with life. Her serene face was lovely, and her full red lips parted in a smile at Rhys as they aimed for their thrones. Keir looked torn between anger and shock; Eris's face was carefully neutral. Motion at the back of the room tugged Cassian's stare from his enemies, and then-- Both sisters wore black. Both walked behind Rhys and Feyre, a silent indicator that they were a part of the royal family. Had mighty powers of their own. They'd planned it that way, wanting Eris to see for himself how valuable Nesta was. Cassian wondered if Elain and Nesta had broken their silence while waiting for their entrance. They hadn't spoken to each other for months now. Elain in black was ridiculous. Yes, she was beautiful, but the color of her long-sleeved, modest gown leeched the brightness from her face. It wore her, rather than the other way around. And he knew the cruelty of the Hewn City troubled her. But she hadn't hesitated to come. When Feyre had offered to let her remain home, Elain had squared her shoulders and declared that she was a part of this court--and would do whatever was needed. So Elain had let her golden-brown hair down tonight, and pinned it back with twin combs of pearl. He'd never once in the two years he'd known her found Elain to be plain, but wearing black, no matter how much she claimed to be part of this court ... It sucked the life from her. Nesta in Night Court black threatened to bring him to his knees. She'd braided her hair over her head in her usual style, but atop it, a delicate tiara of glinting black stone rested, slender spikes jutting upward in a dark corona. Each spike was topped with a tiny sapphire, as if the spikes were so sharp they'd pierced the sky and drawn cobalt blood. And the dress ... Silver thread embroidered the skintight velvet bodice, the straps so narrow they might as well have been nothing against her moon-white skin. The neckline plunged nearly to her navel, where the silver thread gathered to hold a small sapphire that matched the ones on her crown. The full skirts brushed the dark floor, rustling in the rippling silence. Nesta's chin remained high, accentuating her long, lovely neck. Her red-painted lips cocked in a feline smirk as her kohl-lined eyes took in the room watching her every breath. Nesta seemed to glow with the attention. Owned it. Commanded it. Feyre and Rhys took their thrones, and Nesta and Elain came to stand at the foot of the dais, between him and Azriel. Cassian didn't dare say a word to Nesta, or even glance at her, at the body on display--the body he'd tasted so many times now it was a miracle no imprint of his lips lay against her neck. He didn't dare look at Eris, either. One glance and it'd give away their entire game. Even her scent--his scent, Cassian knew with no small amount of satisfaction--had been carefully glamoured to hide any trace of him. Feyre declared to the assembled crowd, "May the blessings of the Winter Solstice be upon you." Keir scuttled forward, bowing low. "Allow me to extend my congratulations." Cassian knew the bastard didn't mean a word of it. Eris stalked to his side, their honored guest. "And allow me to extend mine as well, on behalf of my father and the entire Autumn Court." He flashed Feyre a pretty, cultivated smile. "He shall be thrilled by this news." Rhys's mouth curled in a cruel half smile, the stars winking out in his eyes. "I'm sure he will." There was no pretending tonight: Rhys truly was the High Lord of the Court of Nightmares while Feyre and their babe were here. He'd slaughter anyone who threatened them. And enjoy it. Rhys said to no one in particular, "Music." An orchestra hidden in a screened-in mezzanine began playing. Feyre raised her voice and said, "Go--eat." The crowd undulated as people aimed for the tables. Only Eris and Keir remained before them. Neither spared Mor so much as a glance, though she smirked down at them, her red dress like a flame in the gloom of the hall. Cassian, in his black armor, felt more like the beasts carved into the towering pillars beneath this mountain. He'd brushed his hair and left it loose, and that had been the extent of his grooming for tonight. He'd spent most of his time thinking about how he'd like to peel Eris's skin off in tiny strips, how Rhys and Feyre had crossed a line by asking this of Nesta. He loved them both, but they could have found another way to ensure Eris's allegiance. Not that Cassian had come up with a better alternative. At least Briallyn and Koschei had not yet acted further. Though he had no doubt they'd be making their next move soon. Feyre commanded the crowd, her voice like thunder at midnight, "Dance." People paired off and fell seamlessly into the music. Keir went with them this time. "Before you join the merriment, Eris," Rhys drawled, a long black box appearing in his hands, "I'd like to present you with your Solstice gift." Cassian kept his face blank. Rhys had gotten the bastard a gift? Rhys floated the box over to Eris on a night-kissed wind. Let enough of that wind remain, wrapping behind Eris, for Cassian to know it blocked him from sight. From Keir's sight, specifically. Eris lifted his brows, flipping open the carved lid. He stiffened, voice going low. "What is this?" "A present," Rhys said, and Cassian caught a glimpse of a familiar hilt in the box. The dagger Nesta had Made. Cassian refrained from whirling on Rhys and Feyre, demanding to know what the hell they were thinking. Eris sucked in a breath. Feyre said, "You can sense its power." "There's flame in it," Eris said, not touching the dagger. As if his own magic warned him. He shut the lid, face slightly pale. "Why give this to me?" "You're our ally," Feyre said, a hand resting on her belly. "You face enemies that exist outside of the usual rules of magic. It seemed only fair to give you a weapon that operates outside those rules, too." "This is truly Made, then." Cassian braced himself for the truth, the damning, dangerous truth to be revealed about Nesta. But Rhys said, "From my personal collection. A family heirloom." "You possessed a Made item and kept it hidden all these years? During the war?" "Don't take our generosity for granted," Feyre warned Eris quietly. Eris stilled, but nodded. He extended the box back to Rhys. "I'll leave it in your keeping while I dance, then." He added with what Cassian could have sworn was sincerity, "Thank you." Feyre nodded as Rhys took the box and set it beside his throne. "Use it well." She smiled softly at Eris. "Ordinarily I would ask you to dance, but my condition has left me unwell enough that I worry about what so much spinning would do to my stomach." It was the truth. Feyre had bolted from dinner three nights ago to find the nearest toilet. Now she made a show of looking between her two sisters. Elain gave a passable impression of appearing interested. Nesta just looked bored. Like they hadn't just given away the dagger she'd Made. Perhaps it was because Nesta's eyes had drifted toward the dancing, shimmering throng. As if she couldn't help herself when the music swelled. She seemed to be half-listening. Maybe music meant more to her than the dagger--more than magic and power. Feyre noted the direction of Nesta's stare. "My oldest sister shall take my place." Nesta barely glanced to Eris, who pulled his assessing gaze from Elain to stare at the eldest Archeron sister with a mix of wariness and intent that set Cassian's jaw grinding. Or it would have been grinding, if he hadn't mastered himself in time to keep his face blank as Nesta began walking toward Eris. Eris offered an arm, and Nesta took it, her face neutral, her chin high, each step gliding. They halted at the edge of the dance floor, pulling apart to face each other. Others watched from the sidelines as the dance finished and the introductory strains of the next began, a harp strumming high and sweet. Eris extended a hand, a half smile on his mouth. As if those harp strings wrapped around Nesta's arm, she raised it, and placed her hand in his precisely as the last, swift pluck of the harp sounded. Percussion and horns blasted; low stringed instruments started a rushing stroke of music. A summons to the dance in a countdown to movement. Cassian reminded himself to breathe as Eris slid his broad hand over Nesta's waist, tucking her in close. She lifted her chin, looking up into his face as a deep-bellied drum thumped. And as the violins began their sweeping song, a beckoning back-and- forth, Nesta moved as if her very breath were timed to the music. Eris went with her, and it was clear that he knew the dance's nuances and exact notes, but Nesta ... She gathered her skirts in her other hand, and as Eris led her into the waltz's opening movements, her body went loose and taut in so many different places Cassian didn't know where to look: she was bent and shaped and directed by the sound. Even Eris's eyes widened at it--the sheer skill and grace, each movement of her body precisely tuned to each note and flutter of music, from her fingertips to the extension of her neck as she turned, the arch of her back into a held note. Cassian dared a glance at Feyre and Rhys and found even their normally composed faces had gone a bit slack. By the time Nesta and Eris finished their first rotation through the dance floor, Cassian had the growing feeling that Elain had rather undersold her sister's abilities. The music burned through Nesta. Had there ever been such a perfect, half-wild sound in the world? Mor's memories on the Veritas were nothing compared to this, hearing it performed live, dancing through it. It flowed and swam around her, filling her blood, and if she could have done so, she would have melted into the melody, become the rolling drums, the soaring violins, the clashing cymbals with the counter-beat, the horns and reeds with their high-arcing song. There wasn't enough space inside her for the sound, for all it made her feel--not enough space in her mind, her heart, her body; and all she could do to honor it, worship it, was dance. Eris, to his credit, kept up. She held his eyes throughout each step, let him feel her supple body, how pliant it was as she arched into a cluster of notes. His hand tightened on her, fingers digging into the groove of her spine, and she let a small smile rise to her red-painted lips. She had never worn such a color on her mouth. It looked like sin personified. But Mor had done it, along with the swoop of liquid kohl over her upper eyelids. And when Nesta had looked in the mirror at last, she hadn't seen herself staring back. She'd seen a Queen of the Night. As merciless and cold and beautiful as the god Lanthys had wanted to make her. Death's Consort. Death herself. Eris released her waist to spin her, and it was no effort to time her rotation to the flutter of notes, her gaze locking back to his exactly as the music returned to the melody. Flame simmered in his eyes, and he spun her again--not a prescribed move in the dance, but she followed through, snapping her head around to meet his gaze once more, her skirts twirling. His lips curled with approval, his test passed. Nesta smirked back at him, letting her eyes glitter. Make him crawl, Mor had said. And she would. But first she would dance. Cassian knew the waltz. Had watched and danced it for centuries. Knew its last half minute was a swift frenzy of notes and rising, grand sound. Knew most dancers would keep waltzing through it, but the brave ones, the skilled ones would do the twelve spins, the female blindly turning with one arm above her head, rotated again and again and again by her partner as they moved across the dance floor. To spin was to risk looking the fool at best, to eat marble at worst. Nesta went for it. And Eris went with her, eyes blazing with feral delight. The music stomped into its crashing finale, drums striking, violins whirring, and the entire room straightened, eyes upon Nesta. Upon Nesta, this once-human female who had conquered death, who now glowed as if she had devoured the moon, too. Between one beat and the next, Eris lifted Nesta's arm above her head and whipped her around with such force her heels rose off the ground. She'd barely finished the rotation when he spun her again, her head turning with such precision it took Cassian's breath away. And her feet ... One spin after another after another, moving across the now-empty dance floor like a night storm, Nesta's slipper-clad feet danced so fast they were a near blur. He knew that Eris turned her arm, but her feet held her, propelled them. It was she who led this dance. On the seventh spin, she twirled so swiftly she rose fully onto her toes. On the ninth spin, Eris released her fingers. And Nesta, arm still stretched above her head, rotated thrice more. Each one of the sapphires atop her tiara glimmered as if lit with an inner fire. Someone gasped nearby. It might have been Feyre. And as Nesta spun solo--on the toes of one perfect foot--she smiled. Not a courtier's slick smile, not a coy one, but one of pure, wild joy, brought by the music and the dance and her wholehearted yield to it. It was like seeing someone being born. Like seeing someone come alive. By the time Nesta finished the last rotation, that absurd defiance of basic laws of movement and space, Eris had her hand again, spinning her three more times, his red hair glinting like fire as if in echo to the unchecked, dark joy bursting from her. Nesta's mother had wanted a prince for her. Cassian now thought she'd undervalued her daughter. Only a king or an emperor would do for someone with that level of skill. She was seducing Eris within an inch of his life. The murmuring of the Hewn City confirmed that Cassian wasn't the only one noting it. Eris's eyes gleamed with wanton desire as he drank in Nesta's smile, the glow about her. He knew what Nesta might become with a little ambition. The right guidance. If he learned that the Dread Trove answered to her, that she'd Made his new dagger ... It was a mistake, to bring her here. To dangle her before Eris, the world. Emerging from her cocoon of grief and rage, this new Nesta might very well send entire courts to their knees. Kingdoms. The music rose and rose and rose, faster and faster and faster, and as its last few notes sounded, Eris again released her. Nesta spun solo once more, three more precise, perfect rotations as Eris dropped to a knee before her and held up a hand. The final note blasted and held, and Nesta halted with preternatural ease, taking Eris's hand in the same movement that her back arched and she flung up her other arm, the portrait of triumph. e: The next dance began, and Nesta did not hesitate when Eris led her into it. It was a lighter, easier dance than the first, whose music had been a song in her blood. Her partner might be a monster, but he knew how to dance. Had known how her body screamed to do those extra, solo turns, and let her go free not once but twice, and even then it had not been enough. If she hadn't been wearing the heavy dress, she might have begged the orchestra to play the song again so she could just execute spin after spin after spin by herself, knowing when to throw in doubles and triples by instinct and ear alone. She was drunk on the music. But the second dance required no wild spinning or excess of emotion. As if the conductor of the orchestra hidden in this room wanted her to have a breather. Or at least talk to her partner. Eris's amber eyes studied hers. "Trust Rhysand to keep you hidden away." Right. She was to flatter him, keep him on their side. "I just saw you the other week." Eris chuckled. "And as riveting as it was to see you send Tamlin scrambling off with his tail between his legs, I didn't see this side of you. The time since the war has changed you." She didn't smile, but she met his stare directly as she said, "For the better, I hope." "Certainly for the more interesting. It seems you came to play the game tonight after all." Eris spun her, and when she returned to him, he murmured in her ear, "Don't believe the lies they tell you about me." She pulled back just enough to meet his gaze. "Oh?" Eris nodded to where Mor watched them from beside Feyre and Rhys, her face neutral and aloof. "She knows the truth but has never revealed it." "Why?" "Because she is afraid of it." "You don't win yourself any favors with your behavior." "Don't I? Do I not ally myself with this court under constant threat of being discovered and killed by my father? Do I not offer aid whenever Rhysand wishes?" He spun her again. "They believe a version of events that is easier to swallow. I always thought Rhysand wiser than that, but he tends to be blind where those he loves are concerned." Nesta's mouth twitched to one side. "And you? Who do you love?" His smile sharpened. "Are you inquiring after my eligibility?" "I'm merely saying it's hard to find a good dance partner these days." Eris laughed, the sound like silk over her skin. She shivered. "Indeed it is. Especially one who can both dance and tear the King of Hybern's head from his shoulders." She let him see a bit of that person--see the savage rage and silver fire he'd witnessed before Tamlin. Then she blinked and it was gone. Eris's face tightened, and not from fear. He twirled her again, the waltz already coming to a close. He whispered in her ear, "They say your sister Elain is the beauty, but you outshine her tonight." His hand stroked down the bare skin of her back, and she arched slightly into the touch. Nesta made her throat bob, let a hint of color rise to her cheeks. The waltz finished, and they seamlessly fell into the next dance, a little more demanding this time. She remembered this one from her lessons with Mor--it was lovely and sweeping and like being in a dream, until its final minute became so grand it always knocked the breath from her. Anticipation thrummed through her, brightening her eyes. "You're wasted at the Night Court," Eris murmured as she twirled, skirts enveloping the two of them. "Absolutely wasted." "I'm not sure that's a compliment." Another chuckle. Motion lurked at the corner of her eye, but she didn't break her stare from Eris's, didn't halt her steps until-- "Move." Cassian's cold voice cracked through the spell of the music, halting her. He stood before them, amid the sea of people twirling around and around, and even though most wore black, his armor and blades made him seem ... different. Like a true piece of the night. Eris looked down his straight nose at Cassian. "I don't take orders from brutes." Nesta stifled her snarl and said coolly to Cassian, "Am I to understand that you would like to dance with me?" "Yes." His hazel eyes were burning with violence. Had he really believed what he'd seen on this dance floor? Eris bared his teeth at Cassian. "Go sit at your master's feet, dog." It took all her concentration, every moment of Mind-Stilling, to keep from ripping out Eris's throat. But Nesta shoved her fury down, to the place where she'd stifled her power. "No one likes a selfish partner, Eris." She didn't so much as look at Cassian. Didn't trust what she'd do if she beheld pain in his eyes at Eris's insult. Feyre and Rhysand had given Eris one of her blades just to ensure his continued alliance. She wouldn't jeopardize it. So she added with a croon, "Time to share." Eris threw her a mocking smile. "We'll play later, Nesta Archeron." He ignored Cassian as he aimed for the dais again. Alone with Cassian, the packed dance floor teeming around them, Nesta demanded, "Are you happy now?" His face was like stone. "No." A glance over his shoulder showed her a tight-faced Rhys and Feyre, who were undoubtedly shouting at him mind to mind. But if she and Cassian lingered like this for too long, the spell she'd woven around Eris might be disrupted, and ... Cassian offered up his hand. Swallowed once. He was nervous. This male who had faced down enemy armies, who had battled to the brink of death more times than she cared to count, who had fought so many dangers it was a miracle he lived ... he was nervous. It softened some crucial piece of her, and Nesta slipped her hand into his, their calluses rasping against each other. His hand slid around her waist, so large it spanned nearly halfway across. She gathered her skirts, and lifted her gaze to his. Nesta fell back a step, leading him, them, into the dance, and Cassian went with her. He was not graceful like Eris. He did not instinctively move to each beat like she did. But he kept up, willing to follow her into the music, into the sound and the movement, and his eyes did not, would not, leave her face. Their steps quickened, and Cassian found his rhythm. He spun her, and she whipped herself around, his arms waiting to catch her. His hand on her waist tightened, his only warning as he launched them further, faster into the music. Cassian smiled at her, and the world faded away. The music was no longer the most beautiful thing in existence. He was. Nesta couldn't stop it then. The answering smile that bloomed through her at last, stealing across her face, bright as the dawn. Cassian would only yield Nesta to Azriel, who swept her into a waltz as easily as breathing. Wandering over to the wine table to pour himself a goblet, Cassian met the eyes of a few courtiers gawking at Nesta and let them see what would happen if they so much as approached her. They quickly fell away, and he leaned against a pillar, content to watch Nesta dance with his brother. Mor was at his side a moment later, her lips curving upward. "Looks like our lessons paid off." Cassian kissed her cheek. "I owe you one." They'd been training in secret these past weeks. Mor had been positively giddy when he'd asked for her help. But her eyes were dark now, her face wan. "How are you doing?" he asked neutrally, well aware of the people around them. What Mor had been and was now to them. Mor lifted one shoulder, then let it drop. "Fine." She nodded to Nesta. "I enjoyed seeing what she did." She elbowed him in the ribs. "Though I suppose you didn't. You just had to cut in, didn't you?" He crossed his arms. "Rhys can deal with it." "It seems like Rhys is," Mor said, and Cassian followed her stare toward the dais, where Eris stood beside the thrones, speaking with Rhys and Feyre. Without Rhys so much as blinking in their direction, Cassian found that Rhys had let him in on the conversation--he was inside Rhys's mind, seeing and hearing the conversation through Rhys's eyes. From Mor's sudden stillness, he knew she'd been brought in, too. "All right," Eris was saying to Rhys, sliding his hands into his pockets. "You showed me what I can have, Rhysand. I'm intrigued enough to ask what you'd want in return." Feyre blurted into Rhys's thoughts, What?! Cassian wanted to echo the same, his entire body tightening. But Rhys didn't move from where he lounged on his throne. "What do you mean by that?" Lust glazed Eris's eyes. Covetous, calculating lust. Cassian swallowed his growl. "I mean that whatever you want, I'll give it to you in exchange for her. As my bride." He jerked his chin to the box with the dagger at Rhys's feet. "I'd rather have her than that." He danced three dances with her! Feyre squawked. Rhys's lips seemed to be fighting a losing battle not to smile. Cassian could only stare at Eris's throat, pondering whether to strangle him or slit the skin wide open. Let him bleed out on the floor. "That's not my decision," Rhys said calmly to Eris. "And it seems foolish for you to offer me anything I want in exchange for her, anyway." His jaw tightened. "I have my reasons." From the shadows in his eyes, Cassian knew something more lay beneath the rash offer. Something that even Az's spies hadn't picked up on at the Autumn Court. All it would take was one push of Rhys's power into his mind and they'd know, but ... it went against everything they stood for, at least amongst their allies. Rhys demanded their trust; he had to give it in return. Cassian couldn't fault his brother for that. Eris added, "It is a bonus, of course, that in doing so, I would be repaying Cassian for ruining my betrothal to Morrigan." Asshole. Cassian's hands curled into fists, but Mor's fingers landed on his arm. Gentle and reassuring. Can't we throw him to the beasts under the cell and be done with him? Feyre seethed to Rhys. Again, Rhys's lips twitched. So bloodthirsty, Cassian heard his High Lord croon to his mate. But Rhys said, "Anything I want, whether it be armies from the Autumn Court or your firstborn, you would grant me in exchange for Nesta Archeron as your wife?" Cassian growled low in his throat. His brother was letting this carry on too far. Eris glared. "Not as far as the firstborn, but yes, Rhysand. You want armies against Briallyn and my father, you'll have them." His lips curved upward. "I couldn't very well let my wife's sister go into battle unaided, could I?" You can return every Solstice present in exchange for letting me tear him apart, Feyre said. Cassian clamped his mouth shut to avoid shouting his agreement toward them. But Rhys, the bastard, silently laughed. His face remained stone-cold as he said, "I'll consider it, and talk to Nesta. Keep the dagger, though. You might need it." Cassian glanced to Azriel and Nesta, still beautifully waltzing. It didn't spark one ember of his temper. But Eris ... Ally or not, he'd make sure the prick got what was coming to him. <|title|>Chapter 58 <|startofchapter|>Nesta had stood here once before. A year before, actually. A different house, in a different part of this city, but she had stood outside while the others celebrated the Winter Solstice within, and felt like a ghost looking in through a window. Ice crusted the Sidra behind the house, the lawn sloping down to it winter white. But evergreen garlands and wreaths decorated the river house --the epitome of merry warmth. "Stop scowling," Cassian said. "It's a party, not a funeral." She glared, but he opened the front door to a riot of music and laughter. She hadn't slept with him after the ball, or since. He'd looked inclined when they'd returned to the House of Wind, but she'd simply said she was tired and had gone to her own room. Because as soon as that music had faded and the dance had stopped, she'd realized how stupidly she'd been smiling at him, how low those walls in her mind had dropped. Eris had danced with her twice more after Azriel, and he'd had such intent in his eyes she knew she'd woven her spell around him well. He'd bid for her, she'd learned with no small amount of smugness. Nesta left it to Rhysand and Feyre to decide how to wield that offer. Instead, she'd focused on training. Gave herself over to it. The sessions had been halted through the holiday, but she'd gone up to the ring the next morning to practice anyway, punching the wood beam vigorously to work out her roaring thoughts. Now, she followed Cassian into the river house, where he immediately aimed for the family room, shucking off his snow-crusted cloak and dropping it onto a bench in the grand foyer on the way. Nesta frowned at the dripping snow on the brocaded material and picked it up, eager for anything to do with herself to avoid going into that room. She unfastened her own cloak, scanning the hall for a coat closet or rack, and found the former tucked under the stair archway. She hung both garments there, and heaved a long breath as she shut the door. "You came," Elain said behind her, and Nesta started, not having heard her sister approach. She scanned Elain from head to toe, wondering if she'd been taking lessons in stealth either from Azriel or the two half-wraiths she called friends. Gone was the ill-suited black dress from the ball, replaced by a gown of amethyst velvet, her hair half-up and curling down to her waist. She glowed with good health. Except ... Her brown eyes were wary. Usually, that look was reserved for Lucien. The male was definitely in the family room, since Nesta knew Feyre and Rhys had invited him, but for that look to be directed at her ... They hadn't spoken of their argument in the few minutes they'd had together before the ball's procession, and then she'd avoided Elain entirely until the event was over. She didn't know what she'd say. How to make it right. Nesta cleared her throat. "Cassian said it might be ... good if I came." Elain's eyes flickered. "Did Feyre pay you, like last year?" "No." Shame washed through her. Elain sighed, glancing over Nesta's shoulder to the open doorway across the entry. The party within, only for their small inner circle. "Please don't upset Feyre. It's her birthday, first of all. And in her state--" "Oh, fuck you," Nesta snapped, and then choked. Elain blinked. Nesta blinked back, horror lurching through her. And then Elain burst out laughing. Howling, half-sobbing laughs that sent her bending over at the waist, gasping for breath. Nesta just stared, torn between questions and wanting to throw herself into the icy Sidra. "I-- I'm so sorry--" Elain held up a hand, wiping her eyes with the other. "You've never said such a thing to me!" She laughed again. "I think that's a good sign, isn't it?" Nesta shook her head slowly, not understanding. Elain just linked her arm through Nesta's and led her toward the family room, where Azriel stood in the doorway, monitoring them. As if he'd heard Elain's sharp laugh and wondered what had caused it. "I was just checking on dessert," Elain explained as they approached the doorway and Azriel. Nesta met the shadowsinger's stare and he gave her a nod. Then his gaze shifted to Elain, and though it was utterly neutral, something charged went through it. Between them. Elain's breath caught slightly, and she gave him a shallow nod of greeting before brushing past, leading Nesta into the room. Mor lounged on a green velvet couch before the fireplace; Amren sat in Varian's lap on the matching couch opposite her, Feyre beside them, a hand on her belly. Rhys sprawled in an armchair, and Cassian occupied a second armchair with Lucien leaning against it, arguing with them about something that seemed related to a sporting event. Nesta had tried to convince Emerie and Gwyn to join her, but both had refused. Emerie had said she was obligated to visit her horrible family, and Gwyn merely said she wasn't ready to leave the library to go farther than the training ring. So here Nesta was, alone with the same group she'd dealt with last year. When they'd watched her sit sullen as a child in the back of the town house living room, then storm out. Feyre smiled at her, glowing with health and life. But Nesta's gaze snagged on Amren. The female did not so much as look her way. Varian did, and he threw her a wary glance that said enough: No, Amren wouldn't speak to her. Her chest tightened. But Cassian beckoned her over. He rose from his seat, offering it to her, even though there were a dozen more in the room. "Sit," he said. "Do you want some peppermint tea?" She knew they all watched her, hated that they did, and understood why, too. But she nodded at Cassian and sat, saying to Feyre, "Happy birthday." Feyre smiled again. "Thank you." And that was that. Nesta ignored the collective sense of relief that filled the room and pivoted, finding herself peering up at Lucien, who greeted her with a wary dip of his chin. Elain, the wretch, had taken the seat between Feyre and Varian, about as far from Lucien as she could get. Azriel remained in the doorway. "How's the Spring Court?" Nesta asked. The fire crackled merrily to her right, and she let the sound ripple through and past her. Acknowledged the crack and what it did to her, and released it. Even as she concentrated on the male she'd addressed. Lucien's jaw tightened. "How you'd expect." Tension rippled through the room, confirmation that Tamlin had heard the news of Feyre's pregnancy. From Lucien's grim face, she knew he hadn't reacted well. Nesta said, "And Jurian and Vassa?" "At each other's throats, as they like to be," he said, a tad sharply. She wondered what that was about--and for the life of her couldn't read it. Lucien asked, sipping his tea, "How's the training?" She gave him a smile--a true one. "Good. We're learning how to disembowel a male." Lucien choked on his drink, nearly spewing it onto her head. Cassian appeared, a cup of tea steaming in his hands, and passed it to her before he declared proudly to Lucien, "As you'd expect, Nes excels at it." Mor lifted her glass in a mockery of a toast. "My favorite part of training." Nesta frowned. "We haven't cut the ribbon yet, though." Mor's brows bunched. "So you really are learning Valkyrie techniques." Nesta nodded. They'd been so busy during their dancing lessons that the details of training hadn't come up. Mor grinned. "You mind if I start joining you once this business with Vallahan is over? I never got to train with the Valkyries before the first War, and after it, they were all gone." "I think the priestesses would like to see you," Nesta said, and glanced to Cassian to make sure he didn't mind. He waved a hand. Mor's grin turned fiendish. "Good. I also want to make sure Cassian actually wears his present to practice." "Gods spare me," Cassian groaned, and Nesta's stomach twisted. She hadn't bought them anything--hadn't bought him anything. She'd said as much before he'd flown her down here, and he hadn't cared, but ... she cared. She cradled her tea, and the conversation wended around her. But she managed to tuck that dread away, at least for now. Managed to participate. Azriel lingered near the door, quiet enough that when Feyre and Mor began talking about some of her paintings, Nesta went over to him. "Why don't you sit?" She leaned against the doorway beside the shadowsinger. "My shadows don't like the flames so much." A pretty lie. She'd seen Azriel before the fire plenty. But she looked at who sat close to it and knew the answer. "Why did you come if it torments you so much?" "Because Rhys wants me here. It'd hurt him if I didn't come." "Well, I think holidays are stupid." "I don't." She arched a brow. He explained, "They pull people together. And bring them joy. They are a time to pause and reflect and gather, and those are never bad things." Shadows darkened his eyes, full of enough pain that she couldn't stop herself from touching his shoulder. Letting him see that she understood why he stood in the doorway, why he wouldn't go near the fire. His secret to tell, never hers. Azriel's face remained neutral. So Nesta gave him a small nod and walked back into the fray, taking a seat on the rolled arm of the nearest couch. An hour passed before Mor began grousing about opening presents. Rhys snapped his fingers and a heap of them appeared. Cassian braced himself for whatever awful gift Mor had gotten him-- and glanced to Nesta. He'd kept her present in his pocket, saving it to give to her in private later. He'd done the same last year, and the damn thing had ended up at the bottom of the Sidra. Probably swept out to sea. He'd spent months tracking down the book, so tiny it would fit in a doll's hands, but so precious it had cost him an indecent amount of money. A miniature illuminated manuscript, crafted by the skilled hands of the smallest of the lesser Fae--one of the first printed books in existence. It hadn't been meant for reading--but he'd figured that someone who adored books as much as Nesta would savor this piece of history. Even if she resented all things Fae. He'd regretted throwing it into the river the moment it had vanished under the ice, but ... he'd been foolish that night. This year, he prayed it was different. It felt different. Nesta had been better tonight than last year. Another person entirely. She didn't laugh freely like Mor and Feyre, or smile sweetly like Elain, but she spoke, and engaged, and sometimes smirked. She saw everything, heard everything. Even the fire, which she seemed to ignore. Pride filled his chest at that--and relief. It had only increased when he'd noticed that she'd cared enough about Az's aloofness to go up to him to chat. Only Amren ignored her, and Nesta ignored Amren. The tension between them was a living band of lightning. But no one said anything, and they seemed content to pretend the other didn't exist. No one offered gifts for the baby, as it went against Fae tradition to do so before a babe was born, fearful of calling bad luck by counting one's blessings too soon. But Feyre's birthday gifts were bountiful--perhaps glaringly so. Cassian's gifts were the usual odd medley: an ancient manuscript on warfare from Rhys, a bag of beef jerky from Azriel--I literally couldn't think of anything you'd enjoy more, Az had said when Cassian had laughed --and a hideously ugly green sweater from Mor that made his skin look jaundiced. Amren had given him a travel set of spices--so you don't have to suffer whenever you're in Illyria--and Elain gave him a specially designed ceramic mug with a lid that he could travel with, bespelled against breaking, to keep tea warm for hours. Feyre gave him a painting, which he opened in private, and had to fight back tears before he hid it behind the chair. A portrait of him, Azriel, and Rhys, standing atop Ramiel after the Blood Rite. Bloody and bruised and filthy, faces filled with grim triumph, their hands linked as they touched them to the monolith at its peak. She must have looked into Rhys's mind for the image. Cassian had kissed her cheek, her shield down for the moment, and murmured his thanks--as if that would ever cover it. He'd cherish the painting for the rest of his life. He and Lucien did not exchange gifts, though the male had brought a gift for Feyre and one for his mate, who barely thanked him after opening the pearl earrings. Cassian's heart strained at the pain etching deep into Lucien's face as he tried to hide his disappointment and longing. Elain only shrank further into herself, no trace of that newfound boldness to be seen. Cassian could feel Nesta watching him, but when he looked, her face was unreadable. No one had gotten her presents except for Feyre and Elain, who had together given her a year's worth of book-buying credit to her favorite bookshop in the city. It was capped at around three hundred books, which they seemed to think would be more than she could read in a year. Five hundred books' worth would have been a safer bet, he knew. But then Azriel approached her. Nesta had blinked at the gift the shadowsinger set in her lap. "I didn't get you anything," she murmured to Az, her cheeks turning rosy. "I know," he said, smiling. "I don't mind." Cassian tried to focus on the present in his hands--the silver comb and brush set he'd gotten Mor, engraved with her name--but his gaze snagged on Nesta's fingers as she opened the small box. She peered at what was inside, then looked at Azriel in confusion. "What is it?" Azriel plucked up the small folded silver wand within and unfurled it. One end held a clip, the other a small glass sphere. "You can attach this to whatever book you're reading, and the little ball of faelight will shine. So you don't have to squint when you're reading at night." Nesta touched the glass ball, no bigger than her thumbnail, and faelight flickered within, casting a bright, easy glow upon her lap. She tapped it again and it turned off. And then she jumped to her feet and flung her arms around Azriel. The room went silent for a beat. But Azriel chuckled and squeezed her gently. Cassian smiled to see it-- to see them. "Thank you," Nesta said, quickly pulling away to marvel at the device. "It's brilliant." Azriel blushed and stepped back, shadows swirling. Nesta looked over to Cassian, and that light was once more in her eyes. Enough that he almost gave her his gift there and then. But considering how last year's attempt had gone, considering that since the ball she'd stayed out of his bed ... he held back. In case she shattered his heart all over again. By one in the morning, Nesta's eyes ached with exhaustion. The others were still drinking, but as she hadn't been offered any wine--or wanted any, for that matter--she had not joined them in their singing and dancing. Though she had helped herself to thirds of Feyre's ridiculously large pink birthday cake. Cassian had said they were going to stay here tonight, as he'd be too drunk to fly them back to the House of Wind, and Mor and Azriel would be too drunk to winnow them, not to mention that he'd still have to fly them the last bit of the way. Rhys and Feyre would likely be enjoying each other by the time they were all ready to leave. The door Feyre had directed her to was already open, faelights glowing inside the opulent bedroom bedecked in whites and creams and tans. Candles flickered in glass jars on the marble mantel. The curtains were already down for the night, heavy swaths of blue velvet--the only pop of color in the room, along with a few blue trinkets. It was soothing and smelled of jasmine, precisely the sort of room she'd have designed for herself if she'd been given the chance. She had been given the chance, she realized. Feyre had asked, and she'd refused. Apparently, Feyre had done it herself, somehow knowing what she'd like. Nesta sat at the small vanity, staring at her reflection in the quiet. Her door opened with a creak, and then Cassian was there, leaning against her doorway, gazing at her in the mirror. "You didn't want to say good night?" Her heart began thundering. "I was tired." "You've been tired for a few nights now." He crossed his arms. "What's going on?" "Nothing." She twisted on the cushioned stool of the vanity. "Why aren't you downstairs?" "You never asked about your present." "I assumed I wasn't getting one from you." He pushed off the door frame and shut the door behind him. He took up all the air in the room just by standing there. "Why?" She shrugged. "I just did." He pulled a small box from his jacket and set it on the bed between them. "Surprise." Cassian swallowed as she approached, the only sign that this meant something to him. Nesta's hands turned sweaty as she picked the box up, examining it. She didn't open it yet, though. "I am sorry for how I behaved last Solstice. For how awful I was." He'd gotten her a present then, too. And she hadn't cared, had been so wretched she'd wanted to hurt him for it. For caring. "I know," he said thickly. "I forgave you a long time ago." She still couldn't look at him, even as he said, "Open it." Her hands shook a little as she did, finding a silver ball nestled in the black velvet box. It was the size of a chicken egg, round save for one area that had been flattened so it might be set upon a surface and not roll. "What is it?" "Touch the top. Just a tap." Throwing a puzzled glance at him, she did so. Music exploded into the room. Nesta leaped back, a hand at her chest as he laughed. But--music was playing from the silver orb. And not just any music, but the waltzes from the ball the other night, pure and free of any crowd chattering, as if she were sitting in a theater to hear them. "This isn't the Veritas orb," she managed to say as the waltz poured out of the ball, so clear and perfect her blood sang again. "No, it's a Symphonia, a rare device from Helion's court. It can trap music within itself, and play it back for you. It was originally invented to help compose music, but it never caught on, for some reason." "How did you get the crowd noise out when you trapped the sound the other night?" she marveled. His cheeks stained with color. "I went back the next day. Asked the musicians at the Hewn City to play it all again for me, plus some of their favorites." He nodded to the ball. "And then I went to some of your favorite taverns and found those musicians and had them play ..." He trailed off at her bowed head. The tears she couldn't stop. She didn't try to fight them as the music poured into the room. He had done all of this for her. Had found a way for her to have music --always. "Nesta," he breathed. She shut her eyes against the realization rising within her like a tidal wave. It would sweep away everything in its path once she admitted it. Consume her entirely. The thought was enough for her to straighten and wipe away her tears. "I can't accept this." "It was made for you." He smiled softly. She couldn't bear that smile, his kindness and joy, as she corrected, "I will not accept it." She placed the orb back in its box and handed it to him. "Return it." His eyes shuttered. "It's a gift, not a fucking wedding ring." She stiffened. "No, I'll look to Eris for that." He went still. "Say that again." She made her face cold, the only shield she had against him. "Rhys says Eris wants me as his bride. He'll do anything we want in exchange for my hand." The Siphons atop Cassian's hands flickered. "You aren't considering Saying yes." She said nothing. Let him believe the worst. He snarled. "I see. I get a little too close and you shove me away again. Back to where it's safe. Better to marry a viper like Eris than be with me." "I am not with you," she snapped. "I am fucking you." "The only thing fit for a bastard-born brute, right?" "I didn't say that." "You don't need to. You've said it a thousand times before." "Then why did you bother to cut in at the ball?" "Because I was fucking jealous!" he roared, wings splaying. "You looked like a queen, and it was painfully obvious that you should be with a princeling like Eris and not a low-born nothing like me! Because I couldn't stand the sight of it, right down to my gods-damned bones! But go ahead, Nesta. Go ahead and fucking marry him and good fucking luck to you!" "Eris is the brute," she shot back. "He is a brute and a piece of shit. And I would marry him, because I am just like him!" The words echoed through the room. His pained face gutted her. "I deserve Eris." Her voice cracked. Cassian panted, his eyes still lit with fury--and now with shock. Nesta said hoarsely, "You are good, Cassian. And you are brave, and brilliant, and kind. I could kill anyone who has ever made you feel less than that--less than what you are. And I know I'm a part of that group, and I hate it." Her eyes burned, but she fought past it. "You are everything I have never been, and will never be good enough for. Your friends know it, and I have carried it around with me all this time--that I do not deserve you." The fury slid from his face. Nesta didn't stop the tears that flowed, or the words that tumbled out. "I didn't deserve you before the war, or afterward, and I certainly don't now." She let out a low, broken laugh. "Why do you think I shoved you away? Why do you think I wouldn't speak to you?" She put a hand on her aching chest. "After my father died, after I failed in so many ways--denying myself of you ..." She sobbed. "It was my punishment. Don't you understand that?" She could barely see him through her tears. "From the moment I met you, I wanted you more than reason. From the moment I saw you in my house, you were all I could think about. And it terrified me. No one had ever held such power over me. And I am still terrified that if I let myself have you ... it will be taken away. Someone will take it away, and if you're dead ..." She buried her face in her hands. "It doesn't matter," she whispered. "I do not deserve you, and I never, ever will." Utter silence filled the room. Such silence that she wondered if he'd left, and lowered her hands to see if he was there. Cassian stood before her. Tears streaming down his beautiful, perfect face. She didn't balk from it, letting him see her like this: her most raw, most base self. He'd always seen all of her, anyway. He opened his mouth and tried to speak. Had to swallow and try again. Nesta saw all the words in his eyes, though. The same ones she knew lay in her own. So he stopped trying to speak, and closed the distance between them. Slid a hand into her hair, the other going around her waist and tugging her against him. He said nothing as he dipped his head, mouth brushing the tears sliding along one of her cheeks. Then the other. She closed her eyes, letting herself savor his lips on her over-hot skin, the way his breath caressed her cheek. Each gentle kiss echoed those words she'd seen in his eyes. Cassian pulled back, and remained that way long enough that she opened her eyes again to find his face inches from her own. "You're not going to marry Eris," he said roughly. "No," she breathed. His eyes blazed. "There will be no one else. For either of us." "Yes," she whispered. "Ever," he promised. Nesta laid a hand on his muscled chest, letting the thunderous beating of the heart beneath echo into her palm. Let it travel down her arm, into her own chest, her own heart. "Ever," she swore. It was all he needed. All she needed. Cassian's mouth met hers, and the world ceased to exist. The kiss was punishing and exalting, thorough and frenzied, a claiming and a yielding. She had no words for it. She flung her arms around him, pressing as close as she could get, meeting his tongue stroke for stroke. He growled and nudged her back toward the bed, his mouth devouring and tasting and saying everything she couldn't yet voice, but one day, maybe soon, she could. For him, she'd fight to find the courage to say it. The backs of her legs hit the mattress, and he broke their kiss to attend to their clothes. She expected tearing and rending. But he gently removed her dress, fingers trembling as they unhooked each button down the back of her gown. Her own trembled as she removed his shirt. Then they were naked, and staring at each other again with those unspoken words in their eyes, and she let him lay her upon the bed. Let him climb atop her. There was nothing rough or wild about what followed. She didn't want his head between her legs. Didn't even want his fingers. When he slid one down the center of her, she let him feel that she was ready and then took his hand, interlacing their fingers as her other wrapped around his cock and guided him toward her. He nudged at her entrance, and then halted. His eyes met hers. And then Cassian kissed her deeply as he slid home. She gasped. Not at the fullness of having him inside her--but at that thing in her chest. The thing that thundered and beat wildly as he looked at her again, slid out nearly to the tip, and thrust back in. On that second thrust, the thing in her chest--her heart ... On that second thrust, it yielded entirely to him. On his third, he kissed her again. On the fourth, Nesta twined her arms around his head and neck and held him there as she kissed and kissed and kissed him. On the fifth, the walls of that inner fortress of ancient iron came down. Cassian pulled away, as if sensing it, and his eyes flared as they met her own. But he kept moving in her, making love to her thoroughly, unhurriedly. So Nesta let all that lay beyond those iron walls unspool toward him. Thread after thread of pure golden light flowed into him, and he met it with his own. Where those threads wove together, life glowed like starfire, and she had never seen anything more beautiful, felt anything more beautiful. She was crying, and she didn't know why--only that she never wanted it to end, this binding between them, the feeling of him moving so deep in her that she wanted him imprinted beneath her skin. His tears dripped onto her face, and she reached up to brush them away. He leaned his head into her hand, nuzzling her palm. "Say it," Cassian whispered against her skin. She knew what he meant. Somehow, she knew what he meant. Nesta waited until he'd thrust again, driving as deep into her as he'd ever gone, and whispered, "You're mine." He groaned, thrusting hard. She whispered, "And I am yours." Those golden threads between their very souls shone with the words, as if they formed a harp strummed by a heavenly hand. For it was music between their souls. Always had been. And his voice was her favorite melody. "Nesta." She heard the plea in her name. He was close, and wanted her to go with him. Wanted to tumble into ecstasy together. It was important to him, for some reason, that for this joining, this moment, they went as one. Cassian lowered his head to her breast, teeth clamping around her nipple as his tongue flicked against it. It was all Nesta needed to spur her toward climax. She moaned, and he did it again, timing his tongue to the hard thrust of his cock. Again, again. The golden threads shimmered and sang, and she couldn't take it, the music between their souls, the feel of his body on her and in her, and-- Release blasted through her, obliterating every last bit of that inner wall, razing mountains and forests, wiping the world clean with light and pleasure, stars crashing down from the heavens in a never-ending rain. Cassian roared as he came, and the sound was the summons of a hunt, a symphony, a single clear horn playing as dawn broke over the world. There was only this moment, this thing shared between them, and it lasted for an eternity. Time was of no consequence. Time had always stood still around him, around them. He spilled and spilled himself into her, longer than ever before, as if he'd been holding himself back all the times before now, as if he had let his own inner wall come crumbling down. Forever, forever, forever. The word was echoed in their every breath, every pounding of their hearts, so in sync that they seemed to beat as one. Then silence fell, exquisite and serene, and Cassian remained buried in her, staring down at her with wonder and joy in his face. Nesta reached up to kiss him. One kiss led to another and another, and hunger rose like the tide within her, between them. And then Cassian was moving in her again, faster and harder, and time ceased to exist once more. Hours later, days and weeks and months and millennia later, when they were both finally spent, when their souls had cleaved together entirely, Cassian pulled out of her and collapsed against the bed. Nesta could hardly remember words. But she found them when she whispered into the darkness, "Stay with me." A shudder rocked through him, but he only smiled as he tucked her into his side. And warm and safe and home at last in Cassian's arms, Nesta slept. <|title|>Chapter 59 <|startofchapter|>Nesta opened her eyes. She knew she was warm and content, though it took her a moment to remember the reason. To realize she was still in Cassian's arms. She reveled in it. Savored each breath that brushed against her temple, felt the press of his fingers along her lower back. A calm settled over her, strikingly similar to what she felt when she did her daily Mind-Stilling. Cassian awoke soon after, giving her a sleepy, sated smile. It softened into something tender, and for long minutes, they lay there, staring at each other, Cassian idly brushing his hand down her back. Caressing soon turned to more fervent touching, and as the dawn broke, they tangled again, their lovemaking thorough and unhurried. When she again lay sweating and panting beside him, running a finger down the groove of his muscled stomach, Nesta murmured, "Good morning." Cassian's fingers idly smoothed her hair. "Good morning to you, too." He glanced toward the mantel--the small wooden clock in its center, then lurched upright. "Shit." Nesta frowned. "You have somewhere to be?" He was already hopping into his pants, scanning the floor for the rest of his clothes. Nesta silently pointed to the other side of the bed, where his shirt lay atop her dress. "Snowball fight. I'll be late." Nesta had to unload each word of his statement. But she could only ask, "What?" "Annual tradition, with Rhys and Az. We go up to the mountain cabin --remind me to take you there one day--and ... Well, it's a long story, but we've done it pretty much every year for centuries, and I haven't won in years. If I don't win this year, I will never hear the end of it." All of this was said while shoving himself into his shirt, leather jacket, and boots. Nesta just laughed. "You three--the most feared warriors in all the land --have an annual snowball fight?" Cassian reached the door, throwing her a wicked grin. "Did I mention we take a steam in the birchin attached to the cabin afterward?" From that wicked grin, she knew he meant completely naked. Nesta sat up, hair sliding over her breasts. His eyes dipped lower, a muscle pounding in his neck. For a heartbeat she hoped he'd lunge for her again. Indeed, his nostrils flared, scenting the need that boiled in her just at the sight of his gaze roving freely over her body, the way every part of him tensed. But Cassian swallowed, grin and wickedness fading as he cleared his throat. "After the fight, I need to do a comprehensive inspection of the legions in Illyria for a few days. I'll be back after that." Without so much as a farewell kiss, he vanished. Three days passed with no word from Cassian. He'd been replaced in training by a stone-faced Azriel, who was more aloof than usual and wouldn't even give her a smile. But he didn't object when she brought her Symphonia to the ring each morning for some extra motivation while exercising. The priestesses had marveled at the gift, a few of them dancing to the music, but Nesta had only been able to think about how much time and effort Cassian had put into it. How he had known what such a present would mean to her. Her entire body ached with need, setting her teeth on edge. Three days without him might as well have been three months. She'd become desperate enough for him that her hand now slid between her legs in the bath, in bed, even during lunch in her room. But release left her empty, as if her body knew it needed him in her, filling her. She'd asked Azriel every day when he'd be back, and Azriel had only said, Soon, before conducting their lessons. Maybe she'd gone mad. Maybe that was what that iron wall around her mind had been--the thing that kept her sanity in check. Surely it wasn't normal to think of a person this much, need them this much. It was that worry that hounded her as they wrapped up lessons, panting and sweating despite the frigid morning thanks to the Valkyrie sprints they'd been practicing: ten seconds at a full sprint, thirty seconds trotting, another ten seconds sprinting ... For fifteen minutes straight. Once they could get through it, they'd add in their shields. Then swords. All of it designed to build their stamina and focus on controlling their breathing between bursts of attack and retreat. All of it utter insanity that couldn't quite dull the edge of Nesta's fretting as she asked Emerie and Gwyn, "Do you want to stay over at the House with me tonight?" She motioned to the archway. "Have a read-in or something?" Gwyn blinked, considering. She had not set foot outside of the library Save to come to these lessons or to use the practice ring to hack at that ribbon. But she said, "I'll ask Clotho." Emerie smirked at Nesta, as if aware of why she needed company. "Sure." That evening, Nesta and Emerie read in companionable silence in the private library, waiting for Gwyn. Emerie had sprawled across the armchair, legs dangling over an arm, her back against the other. Without looking up from the book in her lap, she said, "Cassian must be really good at sex, if you're so tied up in knots while he's gone." Nesta cleared her throat, dispelling the memories of his mouth, his strong body, the way his silken black hair fell on either side of his face as he lay over her, swaying as he pounded into her. "He's ..." She made a low noise in her throat. "I figured," Emerie said, chuckling. "He's got the Walk." "The Walk?" Emerie smirked. "You know, when a male knows how to use his cock well and struts around with that swagger that basically declares it to everyone." Nesta rolled her eyes. "I'd hope he knows how to use it well after being alive for five hundred years." She snorted. "Though I've met plenty who proved that wrong." Emerie arched a brow for her to continue, but a knock sounded on the library door. Gwyn's head popped in, and she scanned the room before entering. She bore a small bag, presumably of what she'd need for the night. Nesta had already asked the House to prepare a bedroom for all three of them to share, and she'd entered the private library to find it transformed: by the window against the far wall, a worktable and chairs had been swapped for three cots, each laden with blankets and pillows. Gwyn smiled, though her pulse pounded wildly against the column of her throat. "Sorry I'm late. Merrill made me go over a paragraph with her ten times." Gwyn sighed. "Please tell me all the chocolate is for us." The House had stocked the table between the armchairs with piles of chocolate: truffles and confections and bars of it. Along with cookies and small finger cakes. And a platter of cheeses and fruit. And carafes of water and various juices. Gwyn surveyed the table. "Did you go to all this trouble?" "Oh, no," Emerie said, eyes glowing. "Nesta's been holding out on us." Nesta scoffed, but Emerie said, "The House will get you anything you want. Just say it aloud." At Gwyn's raised brows, Emerie said, "I'd like a Slice of pistachio cake, please." A plateful of one appeared before her. As well as a bowl of whipped cream topped with raspberries. Gwyn blinked. "You live in a magic house." "It likes to read," Nesta admitted, patting a stack of the romances. "We've bonded over that." Gwyn whispered to the room, "What's your favorite book?" One thumped on the table beside Emerie's cake, and Gwyn squawked in surprise. But then rubbed her hands together. "Oh, this is delightful." "That smile means trouble," Emerie said. Gwyn's grin just widened. Two hours later, Nesta found herself fully clothed in a bathtub in the middle of the private library, the entire thing filled with bubbles. No water, just bubbles. In matching tubs on either side of her, Emerie and Gwyn were giggling. "This is ridiculous," Nesta said, even as her mouth curved upward. Each one of their requests had gotten more and more absurd, and Nesta might have felt like they were exploiting the House had it not been so ... exuberant in answering their commands. Adding creative flourishes. Like the fact that each bubble held a tiny bird fluttering about inside. Silent fireworks still exploded in the far corner of the room, and a miniature pegasus--Nesta's request, made only when her friends goaded her into submitting one--fed on a small patch of grass by the shelf, content to ignore them. A cake taller than Cassian stood in the center of the room, lit with a thousand candles. Six frogs danced circles around a red-and-white- spotted toadstool, the waltzes provided by Nesta's Symphonia. Emerie wore a diamond crown and six strings of pearls. Gwyn sported a broad-brimmed hat fit for any fine lady, perched at a rakish angle on her head. A lace parasol leaned against her other shoulder, and she twirled it idly as she surveyed the windows, the world beyond, and said in a hushed voice, "I sometimes wonder if I shall ever have the courage to go out there again. I fear every day that I won't." Nesta's smile slid away. She considered her words before she said, "I feel the same." Because this existence, living in the House, training, working in the library ... It wasn't real life. Not entirely. When she was allowed to return to the city proper, then she'd face life again. See if she was worthy of it. The thought made her stomach twist. Dispelling the gloom, Gwyn leaped out of her tub, bubbles spraying, and padded for her bag. "Now, don't you two dare laugh at me, but I brought something for us to do. I didn't realize we'd have a magic house to keep us occupied." She pulled out a bundle of various colored threads. "My sister and I used to braid bracelets and put these little charms on them full of wishes for each other." She lifted a sack, dumping a few silver coins into her palm. They were no larger than her pinkie nail, and as thin as a wafer. Her voice grew soft. "We believed that the wish would come true once the bracelet fell off." Emerie asked gently, "What was her name?" "Catrin." Gwyn's voice held so much pain and longing. "We were fraternal twins. Her hair was dark as onyx, her skin pale as the moon. And she was as moody as the sea." She laughed quietly. "Despite her faults--and mine--we loved each other dearly. We were all each other had while growing up. She was the only one I could truly rely on. I miss her every day." Nesta couldn't stop herself from thinking of Feyre. Gwyn said, "I wish I could just have one more moment with her. Just one, to tell her that I love her and say good-bye." She wiped at her eyes, lifting her head. Looked right at Nesta. "It's what really mattered in the end, you know. Not our petty fights or differences. I forgot all of that the moment she ..." Gwyn shook her head. "It's all that matters." Nesta nodded slowly. Perhaps it wasn't just her and Feyre, then. Perhaps all sisters had difficulties, fights, chasms between them. She wasn't perfect, but ... neither was Feyre. They had both made mistakes. And both had long, long lives ahead of them. What had occurred in the past did not have to dictate the future. So Nesta nodded again, letting Gwyn see her understanding. "It's all that matters," Nesta agreed. Gwyn smiled, and then straightened, clearing her throat. "I managed to track the thread and charms down before Solstice, thinking I'd make them for you as little presents, but they took longer to arrive than I thought they would. So I figured we could make the bracelets tonight." She carefully set the materials upon the nearest table. Nesta and Emerie rose to survey the variety of threads: all colors and hues, all carefully bundled. "Show me how to do it," Emerie said softly. Nesta wondered if Gwyn's words had resonated with her, too--what pain and hope Emerie might be holding within her. But Gwyn grinned, beginning her demonstration by selecting three colors that she thought matched Emerie's spirit, she claimed. Green, purple, and gold. Nesta refrained from snickering and selected colors for Gwyn: blue, white, and teal. Emerie, in turn, selected Nesta's colors: navy blue, crimson, and silver. Nesta and Emerie dutifully tried to copy Gwyn's "easy" steps: doubling up the thread, knotting it, cutting the looped bits, then pinning the top of the bracelet beneath a heavy book as they separated each length by color. And then began a process of looping and pulling, back and forth. Emerie's knots were flawless. Nesta's ... "Your bracelet is going to be an eyesore, Gwyn." Nesta scowled at the wobbly, bunched-up mess that was her first ten rows. "Keep going," Gwyn said, leagues ahead on her own bracelet and beginning to add pretty patterns within the rows. "The knots will get better- looking with practice. Just tell me when you've gotten to the halfway point and then we'll add the charm." They worked in music-filled companionship, idle chatter bouncing between them, Emerie and Gwyn occasionally laughing at Nesta's awful workmanship. "Now," Gwyn said when they were halfway through, "we make wishes for each other." She reached for one of the tiny coins. "I'll just hold this in my hand, think of something for Emerie, and--" "Wait," Nesta said, catching Gwyn's hand before it could touch the charm. "Let me." Her friends regarded her curiously, and Nesta swallowed. "Let me make a wish for all of us," she explained, gathering the three charms. A small gift --for the friends who had become like sisters. A chosen family. Like the one Feyre had found for herself. Nesta squeezed the charms in her palm, closing her eyes, and said: "I wish for us to have the courage to go out into the world when we are ready, but to always be able to find our way back to each other. No matter what." Gwyn and Emerie cheered at that. And when Nesta opened her eyes, palm unfurling, she could have sworn the coins glowed faintly. <|title|>Chapter 60 <|startofchapter|>Cassian had been gone for five days. Five days, to inspect every single one of the Illyrian legions, and remember how to behave like a normal, sane male rather than a lovesick puppy. But somehow, by the time he returned, a shift had occurred. Not just the world-altering shift that had happened on Winter Solstice between him and Nesta. But a shift between Nesta and Emerie and Gwyn. He emerged into the frigid morning to find the three of them already in the practice ring. They stood around the beam, the ribbon drifting gracefully on the icy wind. Gwyn held a blade in her hand, and Emerie and Nesta stood a few feet away. All three wore braided, colorful bracelets with silver charms dangling from them. Cassian lingered at the doorway as Nesta murmured to Gwyn, "You've got this." Azriel came up beside him, silent as the shadows that wreathed his wings. Gwyn stared the ribbon down like an enemy on a battlefield. It rippled in the wind, dancing away, its motions unpredictable as any foe. "Do it for the miniature pegasus," Emerie said. Cassian had no idea what it meant, but Gwyn's lips twitched upward. Nesta laughed. The sound might as well have been a lightning strike to his head for how much it rocked him, that laugh. Free and light and so unlike anything he'd ever heard from her that even Azriel blinked. A true laugh. "The miniature pegasus," Nesta said, "was an illusion. And is now back in his make-believe meadow." "He loved Gwyn most," Emerie teased. "Despite your efforts to woo him." They fell silent again as Gwyn shifted her feet, angling the blade. The wind waggled the ribbon again, as if taunting her. Cassian glanced over at Az, but his attention was fixed on the young priestess, admiration and quiet encouragement shining from his face. Gwyn whispered, "I am the rock against which the surf crashes." Nesta straightened at the words, as if they were a prayer and a summons. Gwyn lifted the blade. "Nothing can break me." Cassian's throat tightened, and even from across the ring, he could see Nesta's eyes gleaming with pride and pain. Emerie said, "Nothing can break us." The world seemed to pause at the words. As if it had been following one path and now branched off in another direction. In a hundred years, a thousand, this moment would still be etched in his mind. That he would tell his children, his grandchildren, Right then and there. That was when it all changed. Azriel went wholly still, as if he, too, had felt the shift. As if he, too, were aware that far larger forces peered into that training ring as Gwyn moved. Smooth as the Sidra, swift as the wind off the Illyrian Mountains, her entire body working in singing harmony, Gwyn lunged toward the ribbon, twirled, and as she spun, her arm opened up, executing a perfect backhanded slice that cut the winter morning itself. Half the ribbon fluttered to the red stone. A flawless, precise slice. Not one frayed strand rippled in the wind as the severed ribbon hanging from the beam flapped. Nesta bent down, picked up the fallen half of the ribbon, and solemnly tied it around Gwyn's brow. A makeshift version of what the priestesses wore atop their heads with their stones. But Cassian had never seen Gwyn display her Invoking Stone. Gwyn lifted trembling fingers to her brow, touching the ribbon with which Nesta had crowned her. Nesta's voice was thick as she declared, "Valkyrie." It became the ritual: to cut that ribbon, to be crowned with its severed half and anointed Valkyrie. Gwyn was the first. Emerie the second. By the end of training that morning, Nesta became the third. It made facing Cassian only slightly easier. Even if the need within her had only grown worse, clawing at the underside of her skin, begging to get out. To get to him. Every time she met his stare, or got within a few feet of him, it roared at her to strip off her clothes and offer herself to him. She focused on the white ribbon around her brow, focused on what the three of them had accomplished. The lesson finished, and she might have dragged Cassian down to her bedroom had he not simply taken to the skies and left. He didn't come back until the following morning. He was avoiding her. But the next morning, she understood why--or at least he had a reason for his vanishing act. The training ring had been transformed again. An obstacle course lay all around it, coiled like a snake throughout. Nesta was one of the last to arrive, and joined the crowd of females who lingered by the door, murmuring about it as Cassian and Azriel turned to them all. Cassian said, "Valkyries were fearless and brilliant warriors on their own. But their true strength came from being a highly trained unit." He motioned to the obstacle course. "Alone, none of you will be able to get through that course. Together, you can find a way." Emerie snorted. Cassian leveled a grin at her. "Looks simple, doesn't it?" Emerie had the good sense to look nervous. Azriel clapped his hands, and all the females straightened. "You'll work in groups of three." Gwyn asked Az, her teal eyes bright, "What do we get if we finish the course?" Az's shadows danced around him. "Since there's no chance in hell any of you will finish the course, we didn't bother to get a prize." Boos sounded. Gwyn lifted her chin in challenge. "We look forward to proving you wrong." Proving Azriel and Cassian wrong would take a while, it seemed. Gwyn, Emerie, and Nesta made it the farthest in three hours: a grand, whopping halfway. Roslin, Deirdre, and Ananke made it to the obstacle behind them before time was up, and Ananke's golden hair was matted with blood from the blow she'd taken to the head from a spinning, many-armed wooden thing. "Sadistic monsters," Gwyn hissed as the three friends limped toward the water station, defeat heavy on their shoulders. "We try again tomorrow," Emerie swore, sporting a black eye thanks to the swinging log that had knocked her on her ass before Nesta could grab her. "We keep trying until we wipe that smug look off their stupid perfect faces." Indeed, Azriel and Cassian had just leaned against the wall, arms crossed, and smiled at them the entire time. Gwyn threw Azriel a withering stare as she strode past him. "See you tomorrow, Shadowsinger," she tossed over a shoulder. Az stared after her, brows high with amusement. When he turned back, Nesta grinned. "You have no idea what you just started," she said. Az angled his head, hazel eyes narrowing as Gwyn reached the archway. "Remember how Gwyn was with the ribbon?" Nesta winked and clapped the shadowsinger on the shoulder. "You're the new ribbon, Az." e: The obstacle course remained impossible. The bastards changed it every night. Each new morning was a different, harder challenge. But one that had an overall pattern: it usually began with some array of footwork, whether doing a swift run of knee-to-chest steps through a ladder on the ground or balancing on a suspended beam. Then came mental testing--puzzles that required them to think together, and then rely on each other to get through. And when they were thoroughly exhausted, the feats of strength came in. The three of them made it to the third stage only once in the next two weeks. Roslin, Ananke, and Deirdre were close on their heels, propelling Gwyn to push her group harder. She wanted to be the first. Wanted Nesta and Emerie and her to be the ones who wiped the smirks from Azriel's and Cassian's faces. Especially Azriel's. Never mind that, after the first day, they only had an hour to get through the course. The other two hours were spent as a group, working on military training: marching in formation (harder and stupider than it looked), fighting side by side (more dangerous than it seemed), and learning how to move, think, breathe as a unit. But they kept at it. Marched in Valkyrie phalanxes. Fought as one, with Cassian and Azriel playing their opponents. Learned to hold their shields in place against the onslaught of the Illyrians'? Siphons, their towering male forms. Every bit of Valkyrie endurance training paid off: every infernal squat or lunge now allowed them to brace their shields with little effort. To hold steady against an enemy attack. They exercised as one, in precise lines as they did their abdominal curls to the same beat. Did push-ups together. If one collapsed, they all had to start over again. But they kept going. Through sweat and breath and blood, they forged themselves together. And sometimes, when the evening services were over, the three of them would gather in the library and read about military strategy. About Valkyrie lore. About the techniques of the ancients. More of the priestesses cut the ribbon--Roslin. Deirdre. Ananke. Ilana. Lorelei. Everything Azriel and Cassian threw at them, they took and threw right back. And every night, Nesta ran the stairs of the House. Farther and farther and farther. She hadn't been able to reach the bottom again since that fight with Amren, but she kept trying. No longer did memories and words send her rushing down it. Now she was driven by pure, unrelenting purpose. Nesta, Gwyn, and Emerie defeated the obstacle course two months to the day after it had been brought in. Of course, it was on a day when all the priestesses had been summoned away by Clotho for some special ceremony, so there was no one to witness it other than Cassian and Azriel. Only Gwyn had been exempted from the ceremony, apparently. And when Gwyn reached the finish line, bloody and panting and grinning so wildly her teal eyes glowed like a sunlit sea, she only extended her battered hand to Azriel. "Well?" "You already have your prize," Azriel said simply. "You just passed the Blood Rite Qualifier. Congratulations." Gwyn gaped. Nesta and Emerie halted. But Gwyn said to him, "That was why you invited them?" Nesta had no idea what the priestess was talking about, but followed her gaze upward, to the lip of the pit, where a stone-faced Lord Devlon and another male peered in, scowling. No doubt this was the reason the other priestesses had been occupied today. Cassian murmured to Nesta, "I had a feeling today might be the day." Devlon seemed ready to erupt, his face purple with rage, but he looked to Cassian and nodded tersely. "You told the priestesses not to come?" Nesta asked Cassian and Azriel. "We informed Clotho that we might have some observers today," Azriel answered, eyes full of ice and death as he stared down Devlon. The male looked away from the shadowsinger before grunting to his crony and flying eastward toward Illyria. Azriel went on, watching them vanish, "Clotho explained it to the others--and they chose to find other ways to fulfill their day." Nesta asked Gwyn, "But it seemed like you didn't know what we were doing." "Cassian and Azriel warned me that we'd be watched by males today, but didn't specify why. I had no idea it was the Blood Rite Qualifier." Her eyes shone bright above the dirt smudged on her face. Emerie had blanched, though. She asked Cassian, "We're not entering the Blood Rite, are we?" "Only if you want to," Cassian assured her. She alone of all the females here would understand the true horrors of the Blood Rite, Nesta knew. "But we wanted Devlon--and whoever he tells--to understand that you're as talented as any Illyrian unit. This was the only way they'd get it. Being a Valkyrie means nothing to them, and you certainly don't need their approval, but ..." He glanced to Emerie again. "I wanted them to know. What you've accomplished. That even though Valkyries don't have something akin to the Blood Rite, you're as trained as any warrior in Illyria." "The courses?" Gwyn asked. "Different routes," Azriel said, "from various Qualifiers over the centuries." Cassian grinned. "Short of partaking in the Blood Rite, you're now as close to being Illyrian warriors as you can be." Silence fell. Then Nesta said, wiping the blood from the corner of her bruised mouth, "I'd rather be a Valkyrie." The females murmured their agreement. Cassian laughed. "Gods help us." <|title|>Chapter 61 <|startofchapter|>One test remained. Not any Cassian had given her, or any decreed by Illyrians or Valkyries, but one she'd set for herself. Nesta figured today was as good as any to push herself on those last few hundred steps. Down and down and down she went. Around and around and around. They had sliced the Valkyrie ribbon, and had passed the Blood Rite Qualifier. But they would keep training. So much remained to be learned, so much remained that she looked forward to learning with all of them. With her friends. With Cassian. They alternated bedrooms, sleeping wherever was closest to their lovemaking. Or fucking. There was a difference, she'd realized. Lovemaking usually happened late at night or first thing in the morning, when he was lazy and thorough and smiling. Fucking usually happened at lunch or random times, against a wall or bent over a desk or straddling his lap, impaling herself on him again and again. Sometimes it started off as fucking and became the tender, intense thing she called lovemaking. Sometimes the lovemaking dissolved into frantic fucking. She could never tell what would happen, which was part of why she could never get enough. She passed one hundred steps. Two hundred. A thousand. Her head was clear. It burned with purpose, with direction and focus. She woke up each morning glad to be there, to throw herself against the world and see what it did. She had music each night at the evening services, where she had learned most of the songs and sang with the priestesses, letting her voice ring out alongside Gwyn's. She had music from Cassian's Symphonia, which she played whenever she could. And she had music in her heart. A song made up of Cassian's voice, of Gwyn's and Emerie's laughter, of her own breathing as she went down and down and down the stairs. Two thousand. Three thousand. Nesta's feet flew, her steps unfaltering, even as her muscles burned. She fought through it. Gritted her teeth in a feral grin. She gave herself to the burning, the exhaustion and the pain. She did not let them consume her, but allowed them to wash over her. Through her. Did not permit them to bend or deter her. She was the rock against which such things crashed. With each step, each breath, she yielded to the Mind-Stilling. It was the next phase in the Valkyrie mind-training: to go from seated calm to active soothing. To be able to steady the mind, focus it, while in the midst of chaos. Four thousand. Five thousand. Six thousand. The Mind-Stilling became as easy as breathing. She would not be mastered by anything again. She was the master of herself. Seven thousand. Eight thousand. Nine thousand. And this person she was becoming, emerging into day by day ... She might even like her. The stairs vanished. And then there was only a door before her. Nesta swayed, body still seeming to think it had to keep going around and around, but she took hold of the knob. Opened the door to the dusk and city beyond. The lights had all been dimmed, but merry voices filled the streets. No one would prevent her from venturing into the city, to a tavern, and drinking herself silly. No one would come to haul her back. She'd made it down the stairs. Life lay before her. Only, she found herself looking up. Toward the House where a Starfall party would be held in an hour. The male who would be there, who'd encouraged her to come. She faced the city--the lovely, vibrant city. None of it seemed as vibrant as what waited above. The climb would be brutal, and almost without end, but at the top ... Cassian would be waiting. As he had waited for her for years now. Nesta smiled. And began the climb. Cassian, clad in his courtly finery, was standing at the door to the stairs when she returned. He was so exquisite that if Nesta hadn't already been panting from the climb, she'd have found herself unable to breathe. Five steps had Nesta across the hall. Her arms around his neck. Her mouth on his. She kissed him, and he opened for her, letting those silent words pass between them, holding her so tight their heartbeats echoed into each other. When she pulled away, breathless from the kiss and all that filled her heart, Cassian only smiled. "The party already started," he said, kissing her brow and stepping away. "But it's still nearing its peak." Indeed, music and laughter trickled down from levels above. Cassian extended a hand, and Nesta wordlessly took it, letting him lead her down the hall. When she looked at the steps upward and her legs buckled, he scooped her into his arms and carried her. She leaned her head against his chest, closing her eyes, savoring the sound of his heart thumping. All the world was a song, and this heartbeat its core melody. Open air and music flowed around her, glasses clinking and clothing rustling, and she opened her eyes again as Cassian set her down. Stars flowed overhead. Thousands and thousands of stars. She barely remembered last year's Starfall. Had been too drunk to care. But this, so high up ... Nesta didn't care that she was covered in sweat, wearing her leathers amongst a bejeweled crowd. Not as she staggered onto the veranda at the top of the House and gaped at the stars raining across the bowl of the sky. They zoomed by, so close some sparked against the stones, leaving glowing dust in their wake. She had a vague sense of Cassian and Mor and Azriel nearby, of Feyre and Rhys and Lucien, of Elain and Varian and Helion. Of Kallias and Viviane, also swollen with child and glowing with joy and strength. Nesta smiled in greeting and left them blinking, but she forgot them within a moment because the stars, the stars, the stars ... She hadn't realized that such beauty existed in the world. That she might feel so full from wonder it could hurt, like her body couldn't contain all of it. And she didn't know why she cried then, but the tears began rolling down her face. The world was beautiful, and she was so grateful to be in it. To be alive, to be here, to see this. She stuck out a hand over the railing, grazing a star as it shot past, and her fingers came away glowing with blue and green dust. She laughed, a sound of pure joy, and she cried more, because that joy was a miracle. "That's a sound I never thought to hear from you, girl," Amren said beside her. The delicate female was regal in a gown of light gray, diamonds at her throat and wrists, her usual black bob silvered with the starlight. Nesta wiped away her tears, smearing the stardust upon her cheeks and not caring. For a long moment, her throat worked, trying to sort through all that sought to rise from her chest. Amren just held her stare, waiting. Nesta fell to one knee and bowed her head. "I am sorry." Amren made a sound of surprise, and Nesta knew others were watching, but she didn't care. She kept her head lowered and let the words flow from her heart. "You gave me kindness, and respect, and your time, and I treated them like garbage. You told me the truth, and I did not want to hear it. I was jealous, and scared, and too proud to admit it. But losing your friendship is a loss I can't endure." Amren said nothing, and Nesta lifted her head to find the female smiling, something like wonder on her face. Amren's eyes became lined with silver, a hint of how they had once been. "I went poking about the House when we arrived an hour ago. I saw what you did to this place." Nesta's brow furrowed. She hadn't changed anything. Amren grabbed Nesta under the shoulder, hauling her up. "The House sings. I can hear it in the stone. And when I spoke to it, it answered. Granted, it gave me a pile of romance novels by the end of it, but ... you caused this House to come alive, girl." "I didn't do anything." "You Made the House," Amren said, smiling again, a slash of red and white in the glowing dark. "When you arrived here, what did you wish for most?" Nesta considered, watching a few stars whiz past. "A friend. Deep down, I wanted a friend." "So you Made one. Your power brought the House to life with a silent wish born from loneliness and desperate need." "But my power only creates terrible things. The House is good," Nesta breathed. "Ts it?" Nesta considered. "The darkness in the pit of the library--it's the heart of the House." Amren nodded. "And where is it now?" "It hasn't made an appearance in weeks. But it's still there. I think it's just ... being managed. Maybe the House's knowledge that I'm aware of it, and didn't judge it, makes it easier to keep in check." Amren put a hand above Nesta's heart. "That's the key, isn't it? To know the darkness will always remain, but how you choose to face it, handle it ... that's the important part. To not let it consume. To focus upon the good, the things that fill you with wonder." She gestured to the stars zooming past. "The struggle with that darkness is worth it, just to see such things." But Nesta's gaze had slid from the stars--finding a familiar face in the crowd, dancing with Mor. Laughing, his head thrown back. So beautiful she had no words for it. Amren chuckled gently. "And worth it for that, too." Nesta looked back at her friend. Amren smiled, and her face became as lovely as Cassian's, as the stars arching past. "Welcome back to the Night Court, Nesta Archeron." <|title|>Chapter 62 <|startofchapter|>Spring dawned on Velaris. Nesta welcomed the sun into her bones, her heart, letting it warm her. They had made it through the winter with no movement from Briallyn or Beron, no armies unleashing. But Cassian warned that many armies did not attack in the winter, and Briallyn might have been amassing them in secret. Azriel was forbidden from getting within a few miles of her, thanks to the threat of the Crown, and any reports had to be verified by multiple sources. In short: they knew nothing, and could only wait. The mood hadn't been helped by a rare red star blasting across the sky one day--an ill omen, Nesta had heard the priestesses muttering. Cassian reported that even Rhys had been rattled by it, seeming unusually contemplative afterward. But Nesta suspected that the omen wasn't the only thing contributing to Rhys's solemnity. Feyre was only two months from giving birth, and they still knew nothing about how to save her. She channeled that growing worry into her training with the priestesses. Azriel and Cassian devised more training simulations, and they moved through them as a unit, thought and battled as a unit. Nesta sometimes wondered if they would ever see battle. If these priestesses would ever be willing to leave here to fight, to face violence that might summon the devouring demons of their pasts. Did she wish to move beyond simulations to actual combat? What would it do to her, to see her friends killing or being killed? It was a final test, she supposed. One they might not ever be taking. Perhaps the Blood Rite, which Cassian had told her was only a few days away, had started as just that: a way to introduce young Illyrian warriors to killing in a contained environment, a stepping-stone to the full mercilessness of battle. But Nesta's first foray into merciless battle came in the form of a letter. An impatient, demanding letter that requested her presence immediately. And Cassian's. Eris was waiting for Nesta and Cassian when they arrived in a forest clearing nestled in the Middle. But Nesta didn't bother to do more than glance at the High Lord's son--not with the sight rising above the trees. The sacred mountain--the mountain under which Feyre, Rhys, and all the other High Lords had been trapped by Amarantha. It rose like a wave on the horizon, bleak and barren and somehow thrumming with presence. "Have you never seen it?" Eris asked by way of greeting, tracking her stare. "No." She looked away from the unnerving peak. "Why is it sacred to you?" Eris shrugged, and Nesta knew Cassian monitored his every breath. "There are three of them, you know. Sister peaks. This one, the mountain called the Prison, and the one the Illyrian brutes call Ramiel. All bald, barren mountains at odds with those around them." "We didn't come for a history lesson," Cassian muttered. Nesta cut him a look. "I asked. I want to know." Cassian snorted, and jerked his chin to Eris in a silent order to go on. "We don't know why they exist, but do you not find it strange that two out of the three have underground palaces carved into them?" "I'd hardly call the Prison a palace," Cassian cut in. "Just ask the inmates." Eris gave him a mocking smile, but continued, "Unsurprisingly, the Illyrians were never curious enough to see what secrets lie beneath Ramiel. If it, too, was carved up like the others by ancient hands." "I thought Amarantha made the court Under the Mountain herself," Nesta said. "Oh, she decorated it and made us act like a sorry imitation of your Court of Nightmares, but the tunnels and halls were carved long before. By who, we don't know." "That's all the history I can take," Cassian said, earning a withering glare from Eris. Nesta followed suit. Cassian only gave her an amused wink before continuing, "Your letter seemed to imply that your father was making a move. Out with it." "My father went to the continent again last week. He came back seeming normal, without the glassy-eyed aloofness my soldiers displayed. He did not invite me to accompany him, or explain what he discussed with Briallyn. I can only assume the fallout is approaching, though, and wanted to warn you. It was not something I could risk putting in writing. But for now ... for now, it seems as if the world is holding its breath." "For what?" Nesta asked. "For you to find the Harp." Nesta blinked. And realized too late, too slowly, that they had not told Eris they'd found it. And her blink had given it away. Eris demanded, "You have it?" "Does it make a difference?" Cassian said casually. "The Night Court possesses two objects of the Trove. I'd say yes." Eris straightened. "Is that what all these delays have been about? Biding your time so you can learn the Trove's secrets and use the power for your own gains?" "That's absurd," Nesta snapped. "What do we have to gain?" Red flame sizzled in Eris's eyes. "What did the King of Hybern have to gain by attaining the Cauldron and invading our lands?" "We have no interest in conquest, Eris," Cassian said, crossing his arms. "You know that. And we're not going to use the Trove." Eris barked a laugh. Nesta could see that he didn't believe them--that he was so used to the twisted politics and scheming of his court that even when the simple, easy truth was offered, he could not see it. "I find myself not entirely comfortable with your court possessing two items in the Trove." His gaze shifted to Nesta. "Especially when you have so many other weapons in your arsenal." Nesta stiffened, but Cassian didn't so much as shift on his feet. "Rhys has his own plans, Eris. You can't be foolish enough to think we'd tell you all of them, but I can assure you they don't involve using the Trove." Nesta tried not to gape at the cool, amused voice that had come out of Cassian. A courtier's voice. As if he'd been listening to her and Rhysand, and had perfectly replicated that combination of boredom and cruelty. Nesta couldn't help the thrill that shot down her spine. She wanted him to use that voice in the bedroom. Wanted him to whisper like that in her ear while he-- "So you claim," Eris said. "I suppose you're going after the Crown now." His hair shone like embers in the dappled light. Cassian smirked. "We'll tell you when you need to know. And we'll try not to forget this time." Eris picked at a piece of lint on his jacket. At his side hung the dagger Rhys and Feyre had gifted him, simple and plain compared to the finery on him. Her dagger. "You'd be truly stupid to go after Briallyn directly." "Leave the heroics to the brutes, Eris," Cassian said. "Wouldn't want to risk cutting up those pretty hands." Eris's fingers curled slightly on his biceps. Nesta reined in her smile. Cassian's words had found their mark. "And what will you do when you have all three objects in the Trove?" Eris's brows flattened. "You can't destroy them; and I doubt hiding them would work. Considering the danger that gathers around us, I don't see why you wouldn't use them." Nesta kept silent, content to let Cassian take the lead. Cassian let out a soft laugh, and Nesta's blood again sang at the mastery of it. He'd toy with Eris a bit longer. Indeed, Cassian asked coolly, "And what are you going to do to stop us?" Eris only said, "If you fail in retrieving the Crown, you risk Briallyn using it upon you. She could turn you on each other. Make you do unspeakable things. Even reveal to her where the other two objects are. And you'd have no choice but to tell her everything." He worried about them revealing their alliance--for his own sake. "You threaten to expose us. Do not pursue the Crown." "We'll see," Cassian said, the portrait of unruffled calm. Nesta nearly snickered as he nodded toward the dagger at Eris's side. "We have our own ways to protect ourselves against the Crown." Nesta hid her surprise. The weapons she Made shielded against the Trove? No one had told her such a thing. Eris glowered. "Has this been the plan the whole time? To string me along, make me an enemy of my father, then use the Trove against all of us?" "You made yourself an enemy of your father," Cassian said, smiling faintly. "When he finds out, I wonder if he'll let your hounds rip you to shreds, or if he'll do it himself." Eris paled slightly. "Don't you mean if he finds out?" Cassian said nothing. Kept his face neutral. Nesta stifled her smugness and did the same. Eris observed them. For the first time since Nesta had known the male, uncertainty banked the fire in his gaze. And then he turned toward the other subject in his letter, facing Nesta before he asked, "And my offer for you?" Not one ounce of affection or longing laced his words. Nesta lifted her chin, smirking at last. "I suppose once we have the Crown in our hands, the Night Court won't need you after all. Neither will I She could have sworn Cassian was repressing a laugh, but she kept her gaze on Eris, who went rigid, rippling with rage. "I do not appreciate being toyed with, Nesta Archeron. My offer was sincere. Stay with the Night Court and you risk your ruin." Cassian cut in smoothly, "Try to fuck us over, Eris, and you risk yours." Eris's upper lip curled. "Do whatever you want." He straightened, as if shaking off any emotion, face going cold and cruel again. "It's your lives you gamble with, not mine." He chuckled, nodding to Cassian. "So what if the world loses another brute to war? Good riddance." Cassian smiled slowly. "Thanks for your well-wishes, Eris." And with that, Cassian swept Nesta into his arms and shot into the sky, the trees passing in a green blur, the sacred mountain lurking at their backs. Nesta peered into his face as they flew northward, and found Cassian grinning. "You did well," she said, brushing a hand down his neck. "I pretended I was you," he admitted. "I think I got the I Will Slay My Enemies look down, didn't I?" Nesta laughed, leaning her head against his chest. "You did." They flew for hours, content to be alone, soaring over the land. They flew and flew, Cassian tireless and unfaltering, and Nesta let herself revel in the feeling of his arms. In just being with him. And even though the cold sank into her skin, by the time the lights of Velaris appeared on the darkening horizon, she was sorry to see them. But he brought them to the city proper, landing on one of the bridges spanning the Sidra. "I thought we'd walk for a little," he said, interlacing his fingers with hers. After so long in the empty skies, the people all around them seemed to press in. But Nesta nodded, falling into step beside him, savoring his calluses against her own, the rub of the thread that kept his Siphon in place atop his hand, the warmth that leaked from him. "What do you think Eris will do?" They hadn't spoken of it during the flight. "Sulk, then come up with his next way to insult me," Cassian said, and Nesta laughed. He gave her a sidelong glance. "You liked seeing me play courtier?" Nesta's mouth quirked upward. "I wouldn't want you to be that way forever, but it was ... enticing. It gave me some ideas." His eyes glowed, and though they were within view of the entire city, he laid a hand against her cheek. Brushed a kiss to her mouth. "It gave me some ideas as well, Nes." He pressed against her, and she understood his meaning entirely. She laughed and pulled away, aiming for the end of the bridge. "People are watching." "I don't care." He fell into step beside her again, slinging an arm over her shoulder for emphasis. "I have nothing to hide with you. I want them to know we share a bed." He kissed her temple, tucking her into his side as they walked through the bustling city. Such a simple, lovely claim, and yet ... She found herself asking, "Does it undermine my image as a warrior to be with you?" "No. Does it undermine Feyre's when she's seen with Rhys?" Her stomach tightened. Her heartbeat pulsed in her arms, her gut. "It's different for them," she made herself say as they reached the end of the bridge and turned to walk along the quay flanking the river. Cassian asked carefully, "Why?" Nesta kept her focus on the glittering river, vibrant with the hues of sunset. "Because they're mates." At his utter silence, she knew what he'd say. Halted again, bracing for it. Cassian's face was a void. Completely empty as he said, "And we're not?" Nesta said nothing. He huffed a laugh. "Because they're mates and you don't want us to be." "That word means nothing to me, Cassian," she said, voice thick as she tried to keep the people who strode past from overhearing. "It means something to all of you, but for most of my life, husband and wife was as good as it got. Mate is just a word." "That's bullshit." When she only began walking along the river again, he asked, "Why are you frightened?" "I'm not frightened." "What spooked you? Just being seen publicly with me like this?" Yes. Having him kiss her and realizing that soon she'd have to return to this world humming around them, and leave the House, and she didn't know what she would do then. What it would mean for them. If she would plunge back into that dark place she'd occupied before. Drag him down with her. "Nesta. Talk to me." She met his stare, but wouldn't open her mouth. Cassian's eyes blazed. "Say it." She refused. "Say it, Nesta." "I don't know what you're talking about." "Ask me why I vanished for nearly a week after Solstice. Why I suddenly had to do an inspection right after a holiday." Nesta kept her mouth shut. "It was because I woke up the next morning and all I wanted to do was fuck you for a week straight. And I knew what that meant, what had happened, even though you didn't, and I didn't want to scare you. You weren't ready for the truth--not yet." Her mouth went dry. "Say it," Cassian snarled. People gave them a wide berth. Some outright turned back toward the direction they'd come from. "No." His face shuttered with rage even as his voice became calm. "Say it." She couldn't. Not before he'd ordered her to, and certainly not now. She wouldn't let him win like that. "Say what I've guessed from the moment we met," he breathed. "What I knew the first time I kissed you. What became unbreakable between us on Solstice night." She wouldn't. "I am your mate, for fuck's sake!" Cassian shouted, loud enough for people across the river to hear. "You are my mate! Why are you still fighting it?" She let the truth, voiced at last, wash over her. "You promised me forever on Solstice," he said, voice breaking. "Why is one word somehow throwing you off that?" "Because with that one word, the last scrap of my humanity goes away!" She didn't care who saw them, who heard. "With that one stupid word, I am no longer human in any way. I'm one of you!" He blinked. "I thought you wanted to be one of us." "I don't know what I want. I didn't have a choice." "Well, I didn't have a choice in being shackled to you, either." The declaration slammed into her. Shackled. He sucked in a breath. "That was an incredibly poor choice of words." "But the truth, right?" "No. I was angry--it's not true." "Why? Your friends saw me for what I was. What I am. The mating bond made you stupidly blind to it. How many times did they warn you away from me, Cassian?" She barked a cold laugh. Shackled. Words beckoned, sharp as knives, begging for her to grab one and plunge it into his chest. Make him hurt as much as that one word hurt her. Make him bleed. But if she did that, if she ripped into him ... She couldn't. Wouldn't let herself do it. He pleaded, "I didn't mean it like--" "I'm calling in my favor," she said. He went still, brows bunching. And then his eyes widened. "Whatever you' re--" "I want you to leave. Go up to the House of Wind for the night. Do not speak to me until I come talk to you, or until a week has passed. Whichever comes first. I don't care." Until she'd mastered herself enough to not hurt him, to stop feeling the old urge to strike and maim before she could be wounded. Cassian lurched toward her, but winced, back arching. Like the bargain tattoo on his back had burned him. "Go away," she ordered. His throat worked, eyes bulging. Fighting the power of the bargain with his every breath. But then he whirled, wingbeats booming as he leaped into the skies above the river. Nesta remained on the quay as her spine tingled, and she knew her tattoo had vanished. Emerie was at her kitchen table when Nesta appeared at the back door. Mor had winnowed her here without a question, without so much as a glance of disapproval. Nesta had been beyond caring about it, though. Was only grateful the female had appeared--likely sent by Cassian. She didn't care about that, either. Nesta made it two steps into Emerie's shop before she collapsed and cried. She barely noticed what happened. How Emerie helped her into a chair, how the words tumbled out, explaining what she and Cassian had said, what she'd done to him. A knock sounded on the door an hour later, and Nesta stopped crying when she saw who stood there. Gwyn threw her arms around Nesta. "I heard you might need us." Nesta was so stunned to see the priestess that she returned the hug. Mor, a step behind, gave her a concerned nod, and then winnowed away. Emerie was the one to say to Gwyn, "I can't believe you left the library." Gwyn stroked Nesta's head. "Some things are more important than fear." She cleared her throat. "But please don't remind me too much. I'm so nervous I really might vomit." Even Nesta smiled at that. Her two friends fussed over her, sitting at the kitchen table and drinking hot cocoa--a belated Solstice gift to Emerie from Nesta, pilfered from the House's larder. They ate dinner, and then dessert, and discussed their latest reads. They spoke about everything and nothing long into the night. Only when Nesta's eyes burned with exhaustion, her body a limp weight, did they go upstairs. There were three bedrooms above the shop, all pristine and simple, and Nesta changed into the nightgown Emerie offered without a second thought. She'd talk to him tomorrow. Sleep now, safe with her friends around her, and talk to him tomorrow. She'd explain everything--why she'd balked, why it frightened her, this next step into the unknown. The life beyond it. She'd apologize for using their bargain to send him away, and not stop apologizing until he smiled again. Perhaps the future did not need to be so planned--she could just take it one day at a time. As long as she had Cassian at her side, her friends with her, she could do it. Face it. They wouldn't let her fall back into that pit. Cassian would never let her fall again. But if she did fall ... he'd be waiting for her at the top again. Hand outstretched. She didn't deserve it, but she'd endeavor to be worthy of him. Nesta fell asleep with that thought ringing, a weight lifted from her chest. Tomorrow, she'd tell Cassian everything. Tomorrow, her life would begin. A male scent filled her room. It wasn't Cassian. And it wasn't Rhys or Azriel. It was full of hate, and Nesta lurched upward just as a rough laugh sounded. Down the hall, Gwyn screamed--then fell silent. In the dark, she could make out nothing, and she fumbled for the power within her, for the knife next to the bed-- Something cold and wet pressed into her face. It burned her nostrils, flaying open her mind. Darkness swept in, and she was gone. <|title|>Chapter 63 <|startofchapter|>Nesta's bargain had required that he go to the House of Wind for the night. And that he could speak to her only once she spoke to him, or after a week had passed. Easy enough rules to maneuver around. He made a mental note to teach her to word her bargains a little more cleverly. Cassian waited until the required night had passed and then found Rhys at dawn, asking his brother to winnow him into Windhaven. Mor had reluctantly informed him she'd brought Nesta there the day before. He'd finish this fight with Nesta, one way or another. It had never frightened him. The mating bond, or that Nesta was his. He'd guessed it well before the Cauldron had turned her. The only thing that frightened him was that she might reject it. Hate him for it. Chafe against it. He'd beheld the truth in her eyes on Solstice, when the mating bond had been like so much gold thread between their souls, but she'd still hesitated. And yesterday his temper had gotten the better of him, and ... he'd start off round two by getting her to say just one word to him, so he'd be free to speak the rest. The apology, the declaration he still needed to make--all of it. He scented both Nesta and Gwyn at Emerie's back door when he knocked. It moved him beyond words, that Gwyn had braved the world beyond the library to comfort Nesta. Even as it shamed him that he'd been the cause of it. But at his side, Rhys's face was suddenly pale. "They're not here." Cassian didn't wait before he shoved into the shop, breaking the lock on Emerie's door. If someone had hurt them, taken them-- No one was in the cozy room in the back. But--suddenly there were male scents in this room, as if they'd winnowed right in. Illyrians had no magic like that. Except on one night, when Illyrians possessed an ancient, wild power. "No." He charged up the stairs, the steps rank with those male scents, and that of the females' fear. He found Nesta's room first. She'd fought. The bed was shoved across the room, the nightstand turned over, and blood--male blood, from the scent of it--lay in a puddle on the floor. But the acrid scent of the sleeping ointment, enough to knock out a horse, lingered. His head went quiet. Emerie's and Gwyn's rooms were the same. Signs of a struggle, but not of the females themselves. Fear bloomed, so vast and broad he could barely breathe. It was a message--to the females for thinking themselves warriors, and to him for teaching them, for defying the Illyrians' archaic hierarchies and rules. Rhys came up beside him, his face white with that same dread. "Devlon just confirmed everything. The Blood Rite began at midnight." And Gwyn, Emerie, and Nesta had been snatched from their beds. To participate in it. <|title|>Chapter 64 <|startofchapter|>Someone had poured sand into her mouth. And taken a hammer to her head. Was still pounding on it, apparently. Nesta pried her tongue from her teeth, swallowing a few times to work some moisture back into her mouth. Her aching head-- Scents hit her. Male, varied, and so many-- Hard, cold ground lay beneath her bare legs, pine needles poking through the thin material of her nightgown. Chill, blood-icing wind carried all those male scents above a tide of snow and pine and dirt-- Nesta's eyes flew open. A broad male back filled her vision, most of it obscured by a pair of wings. Bound wings. Images of last night pelted her: the males who'd grabbed her, how she'd fought until they'd pushed something against her face that had her blacking out, hearing Gwyn and Emerie screaming-- Nesta jolted upright. The view was worse than she'd expected. Far, far worse. Slowly, silently, she twisted in place. Unconscious Illyrian warriors were strewn around her. At her back, at her head. At her bare feet. More surrounded her, at least two hundred, stretching between the towering pines. The Blood Rite. She must have awoken before the others because she was Made. Different. Nesta reached inward, toward that place where the ancient, awful power rested, and found nothing. As if the well had been drained, as if the sea had receded. The Blood Rite's spells bound magic. Her powers had been rendered useless. She knew her shaking wasn't entirely from the cold. Whatever time she had wouldn't last long. The others would soon stir. And find her standing among them, in nothing but a nightgown. Without weapons. She had to move. Had to find Emerie and Gwyn in this endless sprawl of bodies. Unless they had been dumped elsewhere. Cassian, Rhysand, and Azriel had all been left in different places, she remembered. They'd spent days killing their way to each other amid the bloodthirsty warriors and beasts who roamed these lands. But they had somehow found each other and scaled Ramiel, the sacred mountain, and won the Rite. She'd be lucky to clear this general area. Her breath catching, Nesta eased to her feet. Away from the shield of the warriors' bodies, the cold slammed into her, nearly robbing her of breath. Her shaking deepened. She needed something warmer. Needed shoes. Needed to make a weapon. Nesta peered at the watery sun, as if it'd tell her what direction to go to find her friends. But the light seared her eyes, worsening the pounding in her head. Trees--she could find the mossy side of the trees, Cassian had said. North would lie that way. The nearest tree rose about twenty feet and ten bodies away. From what she could see, no moss grew anywhere on it. So she'd find higher ground and survey the land. See where Ramiel loomed and if she could spot the other dumping grounds. But she needed clothes and weapons and food and to find Gwyn and Emerie, and oh, gods-- Nesta pressed a hand over her mouth to keep her trembling exhale to near-silence. Move. She had to move. But someone already had. The rustle of his wings gave him away. Nesta whirled. A hundred feet off, separated from her by the sea of sleeping bodies, stood a beast of a male. She didn't know him, but she recognized that gleam in his eye. The predatory intent and cruel amusement. Knew what it meant when his stare dipped to her nightgown, her breasts peaked against the frigid cold, her bare legs. Fear burned like acid through her entire body. None of the others stirred. At least she had that. But this male ... He glanced to his left--just for a blink. Nesta followed his stare, and her breath caught. Embedded in the trunk of a tree, gleaming faintly, was a knife. Impossible. Having weapons in the Blood Rite went against its rules. Had the male known it would be there, or had he just spied it before she had? It didn't matter. It only mattered that the knife existed. And it was the sole weapon in sight. She could run. Let him lunge at the knife and flee in the opposite direction and pray he didn't follow. Or she could go for the blade. Beat him to it and then ... she didn't know what she'd do then. But she stood in a field of sleeping warriors who would all soon awaken, and if they found her weaponless, defenseless-- Nesta ran. Cassian couldn't breathe. Hadn't been able to breathe or speak for long minutes now. His family had arrived, and they all surrounded him in the wrecked bedroom of Emerie's house. They were speaking, Azriel with some urgency, but Cassian didn't hear him, heard nothing but the roaring in his head before he said to no one in particular, "I'm going after them." Silence fell, and he turned to find them all staring at him, pale and wide-eyed. Cassian tapped the Siphons on the backs of his hands, and his remaining Siphons appeared at his shoulders, knees, and chest. He nodded to Rhys. "Winnow me to her. Az, you find Emerie and Gwyn." Rhys didn't move an inch. "You know the laws, Cass." "Fuck the laws." "What laws?" Feyre demanded. "Tell her," Rhys ordered him, night swirling around his wings. Cassian bristled. "Tell her, Cassian." The asshole had used that inherent dominance on him. Cassian gritted out, "Anyone who pulls a warrior from the Blood Rite will be hunted down and executed. Along with the warrior who is dishonorably removed from the Rite." Feyre rubbed at her face. "So Nesta, Emerie, and Gwyn have to stay in the Rite." "Even I can't break those rules," Rhys said, a shade softer. "No matter how much I might want to," he added, clasping Cassian's shoulder. Cassian's stomach turned over. Nesta and her friends--his friends-- were in the Rite. And he could do nothing to interfere, not without damning them all. His hands shook. "So, what--we just sit on our asses for a week and wait?" The idea was abhorrent. Feyre gripped his trembling fingers, squeezing tight. "Did you-- Cassian, weren't you listening at all when we got here?" No. He'd barely heard anything. Azriel said tightly, "My spies got word that Eris has been captured by Briallyn. She sent his remaining soldiers after him while he was out hunting with his hounds. They grabbed him and somehow, they were all winnowed back to her palace. I'm guessing using Koschei's power." "I don't care." Cassian aimed for the doorway. Even if ... Fuck. Hadn't he been the one to tell Rhys not to go after those soldiers? To leave them be? He was a fool. He'd left an armed enemy in his blind spot and forgotten about it. But Eris could rot for all he cared. Az said, "We have to get him out." Cassian drew up short. "We ?" Rhys stepped up next to Azriel, Feyre beside him. A formidable wall. "We can't go," Feyre said, nodding to Rhys. It needed no explanation: with the babe less than two months away, Feyre wasn't risking anything. But Rhys ... Cassian challenged his High Lord, "You can be in and out in an hour." "I can't go." Midnight storms swirled in Rhys's eyes. "Yes, you fucking can," Cassian said, rage rising like a tidal wave that would sweep away all in its path. "You--" "I can't." It was agony--pure, undiluted agony that filled Rhys's face. And fear. Feyre slipped her tattooed fingers through Rhys's. Amren asked sharply, "Why?" Rhys stared at the tattoo on Feyre's fingers, interlaced with his. His throat bobbed. Feyre answered for him. "We made a bargain. After the war. To ... only leave this world together." Amren began massaging her temples, muttering a prayer for sanity. Azriel asked, "You made a bargain to die together?" "Fools," Amren hissed. "Romantic, idealistic fools." Rhys turned bleak eyes to her. Cassian couldn't get a breath down. Az stood still as a statue. "If Rhys dies," Feyre said thickly, fear bright in her own eyes, "I die." Her fingers grazed her swollen belly. The babe would die, too. "And if you die, Feyre," Azriel said softly, "then Rhys dies." The words rang hollow and cold like a death knell. If Feyre didn't survive the labor ... Cassian's knees threatened to buckle. Rhy's face was tight with pleading and pain. "I never thought it'd turn out like this," Rhys said quietly. Amren massaged her temples again. "We can discuss the idiocy of this bargain later." Feyre glared at her, and Amren glared right back before saying to Cassian, "You and Azriel need to retrieve Eris." "Why not you?" Feyre pinched the bridge of her nose. "Because Amren is ..." "Powerless," Amren snarled. "You can say it, girl." Feyre winced. "Mor left for Vallahan this morning and is out of our daemati magic's range. Az can't go in alone. We need you, Cassian." Cassian stilled. They just waited. For Nesta to participate in the Blood Rite, to risk every horror and misery while he went off to save fucking Eris ... "Let him die." "As tempting as that is," Feyre said, "he poses a great danger to us in Briallyn's hands. If he's under the Crown's influence, he'll reveal everything he knows." She asked Cassian, "What does he know about us, exactly?" "Too much." Cassian cleared his throat. Through their own bickering, through his need to goad Eris, he'd revealed too much. "He was worried about what we'd do with Nesta as a Night Court power, and with all three objects of the Dread Trove at our disposal. He thought the Night Court might turn around and attempt some sort of power grab." Feyre said hopefully, "Maybe the Made dagger we gave him will grant him immunity from the Crown. If he's carrying the dagger, if they haven't unarmed him, it might shield him against another Made object." "But we don't know that," Rhys countered. "And he'll still be in Briallyn's clutches. She might be able to sense the dagger herself--and it might respond to her." Az added darkly, "And there are plenty of other methods to get him to talk." Amren cut in, "You need to go now." She turned to Feyre and Rhys. "We will return to Velaris and have a nice, long talk about this bargain of yours." Cassian didn't bother to read Feyre's and Rhys's expressions as he gazed toward the small window, the wilderness beyond. As if he could see Nesta there. He summoned his armor, the intricate scales and plates clamping with reassuring familiarity over his body. "I trained Nesta well. Trained them all well," he said, his throat working. He added into the silence as Az tapped his Siphons and his own armor appeared, "If anyone can survive the Blood Rite, it's them." If they could find each other. Nesta broke into a flat-out sprint toward the tree with the knife, the male launching into movement only a heartbeat afterward. He tripped over the scattered bodies, but Nesta kept her knees up. A mirror of every footwork exercise they'd done with the ladder on the ground, as if those bodies were the rope rungs to avoid. Muscle memory kicked in; she barely glanced at the tangle of limbs as she aimed for the tree. But the male had found his footing and closed in fast. Someone had to have planted the weapon, either under the cover of darkness last night or weeks ago. The Blood Rite was savage enough without true weapons--only the weapons they made--but with actual steel thrown in... The male had a good six inches and a hundred pounds on her. In physical combat, he'd possess every advantage. But if she could get that knife-- Nesta broke free of the bodies, legs flying as she ran the last few feet to the tree trunk with her hand outstretched. She brushed the knife's handle-- The male barreled into her with all the force of a full-grown Illyrian walrior. The breath whooshed out of her at the impact as they went down--and over the hill's edge on the other side of the tree. They tumbled toward the streambed a hundred feet below, flipping as they careened down the side of the hill. Rocks and leaves cracked and scratched against her, wings snapped above and below her, her hair lashed her face as her hands grappled-- Nesta slammed into the streambed so hard her spine groaned, the male landing atop her, sending every remaining scrap of breath exploding from her lungs. His wings twitched. But he did not move. Nesta opened her eyes to find herself staring into his unseeing gaze. To find her hand clenching the dagger she'd buried in his throat soaked in warm blood. Grunting, Nesta rolled him off. Left the dagger sticking out of his throat, blood still leaking from the wound. The knife had pierced all the way through to the nape of his neck. Nesta spat a mouthful of blood onto the dry stones. Her nightgown was covered in blood and dirt, her skin raw and stinging. But she was alive. And the male was not. Nesta allowed herself to inhale slowly through her nose for a count of six. She held the breath, then slowly loosed it. Did the breathing exercise twice more. Assessed the state of her body, from her pounding head to her torn feet. Breathed again. When her mind had stilled, Nesta pulled the knife from the male's throat. Then stripped off his clothes, item by item, including his boots. She dressed herself with cold efficiency, shucking off the bloody nightgown and dropping it onto the male's face in a mockery of a funeral shroud, then tucked the knife into the belt she cinched as tight as it would go. The clothes hung off her, and the too-big boots might be a liability, but it was better than the nightgown. And then she went to find her friends. <|title|>Chapter 65 <|startofchapter|>Nesta scaled the other side of the valley to find the land beyond empty of warriors. Behind her, across the small ravine, the others still slept. No sign of Emerie or Gwyn amongst them. No sign of where they might be, either. Cassian had told her while lying in bed one night, sweaty and spent, that there were three dumping grounds for the Rite--one in the north, one in the west, and one in the south. Her friends had to be in the others, either together or one in each. They'd be terrified when they awoke. Gwyn-- Nesta refused to consider it as she hurried through the pines, putting distance between herself and the sleeping warriors before she found a towering tree. She climbed, sap quickly coating her fingers, and when she cleared the canopy ... Ramiel might as well have been across an ocean. It loomed straight ahead, with two mountains and a sea of forest and the gods knew what else between her and its barren slopes. It looked identical to Feyre's painting. She peered at the sun, then at the trunk below her, searching for moss. There-- just below her left foot. Ramiel was east. So she'd been dumped in the west, and the others ... She had to pick either north or south. Or would she be better off heading for the mountain and hoping she found them along the way? She scoured her memory for any advice Cassian might have offhandedly given her. Cassian ... Maybe he was already on his way to save her. The bubble of hope in her chest ruptured. He couldn't rescue her. He'd informed her himself about the laws forbidding such a thing. He'd be executed, and so would she. Even Rhysand or Feyre couldn't stop it. Cassian wasn't coming to save her. No one was coming to save her, or Emerie, or Gwyn. Nesta flexed her fingers, working some movement back into them after sitting still for so long. She swore softly at the blood that dribbled from the few small cuts on her hands. They should have healed by now. But the magic that bound the Rite also suppressed any healing magic within a faerie's blood, apparently. Including her own. Any wounds could be fatal. Would heal at a human, mortal pace. Nesta allowed herself to take another few slow, steadying breaths. She could do this. Would do this. She'd save her friends. And herself. Shouting echoed from far behind her. The others were waking. Cursing, Nesta hurried down the tree, bark and pine needles sticking to her sap- crusted hands. She had to pick a direction, and be running by the time she hit the bottom. The shouting behind her became accented by screams. She glanced back, making sure no one was gaining on her. And as she did, she caught a flash of light from the woven bracelet on her left wrist. From the little silver charm in the middle, glinting in the light. No--it was glowing. Nesta brushed a fingertip over the charm. It buzzed against her skin. Dread sluiced through her--a pricking at her nape, as if a soft voice whispered, Hurry. Nesta twisted to better see it against the sun, but the light within the charm vanished. Nesta pivoted northward. The charm shone again. Brows rising, she angled her arm to the east: nothing. South: only a faint glow. No sense of urgency, of pure panic. But north ... The charm blazed, and again that dread filled her. Nesta sucked in a breath, remembering that night in the House when they'd made the bracelets. Remembering her wish for them: the courage to go out into the world when we are ready, but to always be able to find our way back to each other. No matter what. She'd Made the charms. Into beacons. And whichever of her friends lay to the south wasn't in nearly as much danger as the one to the north. The land that way was uphill. A small blessing. The other warriors would likely choose the fastest and easiest way to Ramiel and avoid a route that involved climbing. But how could the charms work here? The Rite banned magic, both from a wielder and from any objects. Unless the power surrounding the Rite didn't stifle Made items. Fae spells had to be carefully worded--perhaps whoever had woven this spell for the Illyrians had never considered the possibility of a Made item winding up in the Rite. Her own power lay dormant, though. She strained inward, reaching for it, but only emptiness met her. Her throat tightened. She was herself a Made thing--and yet she was a person, too. The magic recognized her as a person and not a thing. She hadn't realized how badly she'd needed to be shown that distinction. She inhaled the pine and distant promise of snow. Alive. Even in this hellscape, she was alive. And she'd make sure her friends were, too. Exhaling slowly, mastering her breath, Nesta lowered her arm and began moving. Her too-big boots hit the ground, her toes shifting within them. By the time Nesta straightened, checking the knife at her side, she was already heading north. It occurred to Nesta after ten minutes of running uphill, the glimmering charm still urging her along, her feet in those infernal boots slipping this way and that, that she needed water. And food. And would need shelter before sunset. And would have to decide whether to risk a fire, or possibly die from cold just to avoid being found. The clothes she'd swiped off the male weren't thick enough to help her survive the night. And if the gray sky was any indication, snow or rain might be imminent. But no warriors were on her tail. At least she had that. Unless they were as stealthy as Cassian and Azriel. The thought had her checking her frantic pace, silencing her steps. Tucking the bracelet and glowing charm into her sleeve to hide its gleam in the dimness. Trying to leave scant evidence of her passing as she scaled a particularly steep hill and surveyed the terrain beyond. More trees and rocks and-- Nesta dropped to the ground as an arrow whizzed past. A fucking arrow The knife hadn't been a fluke. Someone had dumped weapons in the Blood Rite. Nesta scanned the terrain behind her for the arrow. There--stuck in the base of a tree. She slid back down the hill until she reached it, pried it free, and tucked it into her belt. Then climbed the hill again, keeping low, as she peered over the crest once more. And came face-to-face with a razor-sharp arrowhead. "Get up," the warrior growled. With every league Cassian flew around the queens' once-shared castle, Cassian cursed Eris for being stupid enough to get captured. Now this was Briallyn's stronghold, he supposed. Patches of snow still crusted the hilly, open land, though the first buds and sprouts of spring poked through. He kept high enough that breathing was difficult, so high that he'd appear no more than a very large bird to any human on the ground. But with his Fae eyesight, he could clearly make out what crossed the land. He saw nothing of Eris, though. No red hair, no lick of fire, no hint of his soldiers. Azriel, circling in the opposite direction, signaled that he hadn't seen anything, either. It was an effort to stay focused. To keep flying, circling like vultures, when his mind drifted to the northwest. To the Illyrian Mountains and the Blood Rite and Nesta. Had she survived the initial surge? The warriors would be waking by now. Fucking Eris. How could he have been reckless enough to let those soldiers get close? Cassian again scanned the terrain below, fighting to keep his breathing steady in the thin air. He'd find Eris swiftly. Kick his ass, if he had time. And what then? He couldn't do anything to help Nesta. But at least he could be closer to the Rite. Should the worst happen ... He shut down the thought. Nesta would survive. Gwyn and Emerie would survive. He'd allow no other alternative. <|title|>Chapter 66 <|startofchapter|>The Illyrian warrior was smaller than the one Nesta had killed, but this male had gotten his hands on a bow and arrow. "Give me your weapons," he ordered, eyes darting over her, noting the blood coating her face, crusting her chin and neck. Nesta didn't move. Didn't so much as lower her chin. "Give me your fucking weapons," the male warned, voice sharpening. "Where did you come from?" she demanded, as if he didn't have an arrow pointed at her face. And then, before he had time to answer, "Was another female there?" The male blinked--and it was the only confirmation Nesta needed before she handed over the arrow. Slowly, slowly reached for the knife. "Did you kill her, too?" Her voice had dropped to pure ice. "The crippled bitch? I left her to the others." He grinned. "You're better prey anyway." Emerie. She couldn't be far off, if this male had already seen her. Nesta pulled the knife free. The male kept the arrow pointed. "Drop it and back up ten paces." Emerie was alive. And nearby. And in danger. And this motherfucker wouldn't stop Nesta from saving her. Nesta bowed her head, shoulders slumping in what she hoped the male believed was a show of resignation. Indeed, he smiled. He didn't stand a chance. Nesta lowered the knife. And flicked her wrist, fingers splaying as she let it soar toward the male. Right into his groin. He screamed, and she charged as his hand loosed on the bow. She slammed into him and the weapon, the string slapping her face hard enough to draw tears, but they crashed down, and he was shrieking-- No one would stand between her and her friends. Her mind slid to a place of cold and calm. She grabbed the bow, flung it away. As the male writhed on the ground, trying to wrench out the knife piercing his balls, she leaped upon it, shoving it in harder. His scream sent birds scattering from the pines. Nesta twisted the blade free, leaving him lying there. She grabbed the two arrows but didn't bother freeing the quiver pinned beneath his back. She retrieved the Illyrian bow, snatched her knife, and ran in the direction from which he'd come. His howls followed her for miles. e: A river announced its presence well before Nesta reached it. So did the warriors on its near bank, tentatively speaking with each other-- feeling each other out, she guessed--as they filled what seemed to be canteens. Like someone had left those, too. No sign of Emerie. She kept behind a tree, downwind, and listened. Not a whisper about Emerie or another female. Just tense rule-making about the alliances they were forming, how to reach Ramiel, who had left the weapons and canteens for them ... She was about to hunt for an easy spot to cross the river, away from the males, when she heard, "Pity that bitch escaped. She'd have made for good entertainment on the cold nights." Everything in Nesta's body went still. Emerie had made it to this river. Alive. Another said, drinking from the rushing water, "She's probably washed halfway down the mountain. If she isn't dead from the rapids, the beasts will get her before dawn." Emerie must have jumped into the river to get away from these males. Nesta ran her fingers across the bow slung over her shoulder. The arrows in her belt hung like weights. She should kill them for this. Fire these two arrows into two of them and kill them for hurting her friend-- But if Emerie had survived ... She pushed off the tree. Slipped to the next. And the next. Followed the river, her steps barely more than the whisper of water over stone. Through the pines, down the hills. The rapids increased, the rocks rising like black spears. A waterfall roared ahead. If Emerie had gone over it ... The rapids hurtled over the edge, to the bottom a hundred feet below. No surviving that. Nesta's throat dried out. And dried out further as she beheld what lay across the river, caught on a fallen tree jutting from the rocky bank directly before the plunge to the falls. Emerie. Nesta rushed to the edge of the water, but snatched her foot back from its icy fingers. Emerie appeared unconscious, but Nesta didn't dare risk shouting her name. A glance at the sky revealed the sun at its midafternoon point, but it offered no heat, no salvation. How long had Emerie been in the frigid water? "Think," Nesta murmured. "Think, think." Each minute in the water risked killing Emerie. She lay too far away to discern any injuries, but she didn't stir against the branch. Only her twitching wings showed any sign of life. Nesta peeled off her clothes. Wished she'd taken the nightgown to tie her knife and two arrows around her leg, rather than leave them on the shore, but she had no choice. She took the Illyrian bow, though, strapping it across her chest, the string digging into her bare skin. Naked, she eyed the distance between the falls, the rapids, the rocks, and Emerie. "Rock to rock," she told herself. Braced for the cold. And leaped into the water. Nesta gasped and sputtered at the icy shock, hands shaking so hard she feared she'd lose her grip on the slick rocks and be hurtled over the falls. But she kept going. Aiming for Emerie. Closer and closer, until finally she swam frantically between the last rock and the riverbank--and Emerie draped over the half-submerged tree beyond it. Shaking, teeth chattering, Nesta dragged Emerie free of the branches and farther up the bank, then crouched over her. Emerie's face was battered, her arm bleeding from a gash in her biceps. But she breathed. Nesta reined in her sob of relief and gently shook her friend. "Emerie, wake up." The female didn't so much as moan in pain. Nesta searched through Emerie's dark hair, and her fingers came away bloody. She had to get her across the river. Find shelter. Make a fire and get them warm. The bow she'd carried wasn't enough to protect them. Not nearly. "All right, Emerie." Nesta's teeth chattered so hard her face ached. "Sorry about this." She gripped her friend's nightgown and ripped it down the middle, baring Emerie's thin, toned body to the elements. Nesta peeled off the nightgown and twisted it into a long rope, then unshouldered the bow. "You're not going to enjoy this part," Nesta said through her clacking teeth, hauling Emerie back to the water. "Neither am I," she muttered, the icy water biting into her numbed feet. Cold as the Cauldron. Cold as-- Nesta let the thought pass, willing it to drift by like a cloud. Focused. She managed to get Emerie into the water up to their waists, holding her as tightly as her shaking fingers would allow. Then she hoisted her friend onto her back and hooked the Illyrian bow around them both, letting the near-unbreakable string dig into her own chest so the wood rested against Emerie's spine, tethering them together. "Better than nothing." She looped Emerie's limp arms around her shoulders, then took Emerie's nightgown and wrapped it around her wrists, tying them in place. "Hold on," she warned, even though Emerie remained an unmoving weight across her back. Rock to rock. Just as she'd done before. Rock to rock and then back to the shore. Rock to rock. Step to step. She'd done ten thousand steps in the House of Wind. Had done more than that over these months. She could do this. Nesta moved deeper into the water, biting back her cry at its cold. Emerie swayed and banged into her, and the Illyrian bow's string dug into Nesta's chest hard enough to slice the skin. But it held. Step to step to step. By the time Nesta returned to the far bank, shaking, near sobbing, the bowstring had drawn blood. But they were on solid land, and her clothes and weapons were there, and--and now to find warmth and shelter. Nesta laid Emerie on the pine needles, covering her friend with the dry clothes she'd left behind, and gathered what wood she could carry. Naked, shaking, she could barely hold on to the sticks in her arms as she piled them near Emerie. Her trembling fingers struggled to twist the sticks long enough to ignite a spark, to coax the kindling to a flame, but--there. Fire. She raided the area for fallen logs, praying they weren't too wet from the mists off the rapids to catch flame. When the fire was crackling steadily, Nesta slithered under her pile of clothes beside Emerie and wrapped her arms around her friend, their skin pressing close. They were both freezing, but the fire was warm, and beneath the male's large clothes the chill from the water began to fade. But they were utterly exposed to the world. If someone came by, they'd be dead. Nesta held Emerie, feeling her body warm by increments. Watching her breathing ease. Feeling her own chattering teeth calm. Soon it would be night. And what would emerge in the dark ... Nesta remembered Cassian's tales of the monsters that prowled these woods. She swallowed, wrapping her arms more tightly around Emerie. She glanced at her arm, the charm still glowing faintly, only pointing southward now. A sole glimmer of hope, of direction. What had happened to Gwyn? Was she enduring her worst nightmares again? Was she-- Nesta focused on her breathing. Stilled her mind. She'd survive the night. Help Emerie. Then find Gwyn. Around a river, she'd learned on her hike with Cassian, cave systems were often carved out by the water. But to find one, she'd have to leave Emerie ... Nesta glanced at the vanishing sun, then slipped out from under the pile of clothes. She covered Emerie with leaves and twigs, added another log to the fire, and risked taking the male's jacket to wrap around herself. Nesta wore the boots, even though her blistered feet objected, and made a careful circle around the campsite, listening for anything. Anyone. Scanning every rock and cleft boulder. Nothing. The sky darkened. There had to be caves around here somewhere. Where the fuck were they? Where-- "The entrance is here." Nesta whirled, dagger out, to find an Illyrian male standing ten feet away. How he'd crept up, how he'd survived given the gash running down the side of his face-- He noted her own wounds, her nakedness beneath the coat, the bare legs and the boots. The knife. Yet no lust or hatred clouded his brown eyes. The male carefully pointed to what she'd mistaken for a leaf-covered boulder. "That's a cave. Big enough to fit inside." Nesta drew herself up to her full height. Let him see the cold violence in her eyes. "You won't survive an hour on the ground once night falls," the male said, his boyishly charming face neutral. "And if you're not already scaling a tree, then I'm going to guess you've got someone hurt with you." She revealed nothing. He lifted his hands. No weapons, no blood on him save the gash leaking down his face. "I came from the landing site to the west." Where she'd come from. "I saw the body in the gulch--you did that to Novius, didn't you? He was naked. You're in a male's clothes. And that must be the knife that pierced his throat. Do you know who the hell dumped weapons here?" Nesta kept her silence. Night deepened around them. The male shrugged when she didn't reply. "I decided to head northward, hoping to reach Ramiel by a less traveled path, avoiding conflict with the others entirely, if I can. I have no quarrel with you. But I am going into that cave now, and if you're smart, you'll bring whoever is with you and come inside, too." "And have you take my weapons and kill me in my sleep?" The male's brown eyes flickered. "I know who you are. I'm not stupid enough to go after you." "It's the Blood Rite. You'd be forgiven." "Feyre Cursebreaker would not forgive me for killing her sister." "So you do this to gain her favor?" "Does it matter? I swear an oath on Enalius himself not to kill you or whoever is with you. Take it or leave it." "Not to kill us or harm us in any way. Or have anyone you know do so, either." A slight smile. "You adapted to the rules of the Fae quickly. But yes. I swear that, too." Nesta's throat bobbed as she weighed the male's expression. Glanced to the hidden cave entrance behind him. "I need help carrying her." They didn't risk a fire in the cave, but the male, whose name was Balthazar, offered his thick wool cloak to cover Emerie. Nesta slid Emerie into the dead male's clothing, leaving herself wearing only the leather jacket, and though it went against every instinct, she allowed Balthazar to sit on her other side, his warmth leaking into her chilled body. "When dawn comes, be gone," Nesta said into the dark of the musty, leaf-filled cave as night fell. "If we survive the night, I'II be glad to go," Balthazar said. "The beasts of the woods might smell your friend's blood and track us right to this cave." Nesta slid her gaze to the young warrior. "Why aren't you out there killing everyone?" "Because I want to reach the mountain and become Oristian. But if I meet someone I'd like to kill, I won't hesitate." Silence fell, and remained. Within moments, branches snapped. Balthazar's body tightened, his breath becoming impossibly quiet. In the pitch-black of the cave, the only sounds were the rustle of their clothes and the leaves beneath them. A howl rent the night, and Nesta flinched, clutching Emerie closer to her side. But the snapping branches and howling moved off, and Balthazar's body relaxed. "It's just the first," he whispered into the blackness. "They'll prowl until dawn." She didn't want to know what was out there. Not as screaming began in the distance. "Some can climb trees," Balthazar murmured. "The dumb warriors forget that." Nesta stayed silent. "I'll take first watch," the warrior said. "Rest." "Fine." But she did not dare close her eyes. Nesta remained awake the entire night. If Balthazar knew she hadn't been sleeping during his watch, he didn't say. She'd used the time to do her Mind- Stilling exercises, which kept the edge off, but not entirely. The crackle of brush under the paws and talons of stalking beasts and the screaming of the Illyrians continued for hours. When Balthazar nudged her with a knee and she feigned waking, he only murmured that he was going to sleep and tucked himself against her. Nesta let herself soak up his warmth against the frigid cave air. Whether his deep breaths were true sleep or faked, as hers had been, she didn't care. Nesta kept her eyes open, even when they became unbearably sore and heavy. Even when the warmth from her two companions threatened to lull her to sleep. She would not sleep. Wouldn't lower her guard for one moment. Dawn eventually leaked through the lattice of branches, and the screams and howling faded, then vanished. A quick inspection in the dim light revealed that though her friend remained unconscious, the wound on Emerie's head had stopped bleeding. But-- "You'll find plenty of clothes today," Balthazar said, seeming to read her mind. He stepped into the daylight and peered around, then cursed under his breath. "Plenty of clothes." The words sent Nesta scrambling out of the cave. Winged bodies lay everywhere, many half-eaten. A brisk wind ruffled Balthazar's dark hair as he walked away. "Good luck, Archeron." Eris was nowhere to be found in the lands surrounding the queens' castle. But Azriel had encountered a passing human merchant on the road from the palace, who hadn't hesitated when he'd been asked whether a Fae male had recently arrived. He readily supplied that a red-haired Fae male had been dragged into the castle the night before last. He'd heard in the tavern that the male was to be taken soon to another site. "We'll wait here until they leave the castle. Then trail them from the cloud cover," Azriel said, face dark. Cassian grunted his agreement and dragged a hand through his hair. He'd barely slept, thinking of Nesta, and of Feyre and Rhys. Cassian and Azriel hadn't discussed their brother's bargain, which would doom Rhys should Feyre not survive the labor. To lose her would be unbearable, but to also lose Rhys ... Cassian couldn't think of it without feeling sick. Perhaps Amren was working on some way to undo the bargain --if anyone could think of a way, it would be her. Or Helion, he supposed. Cassian and Azriel were beyond Rhys's and Feyre's daemati range, though. They'd have no news of anything. But he'd know if Nesta were dead. In his heart, his soul, he'd sense it. Would feel it. A mate always did. Even if she'd rejected that bond. Nesta had lived through the night, thanks to dumb luck and an Illyrian more interested in politics than killing. Exhaustion slowed every movement as Nesta picked her way through the dismembered bodies, peeling off whatever clothes were intact and not stained by blood or bodily fluids. Many of the warriors had pissed or shit themselves when the beasts of the forest had found them. Finding a clean pair of pants was a tall order. But Nesta gathered enough, including a smaller pair of boots for herself and one set for Emerie, and picked up another dagger, two canteens of water, and what seemed to be someone's half-eaten rabbit dinner. By the time she returned to the cave--dressed, watered, and with half a leg of rabbit in hand--Emerie was awake. Weak, but awake. She said nothing as Nesta handed her the meat and the water, then helped her dress. Only when Nesta eased her out of the cave and Emerie surveyed the carnage did she rasp, "Gwyn?" Nesta, her arm looped around Emerie's middle, lifted her free hand-- the one with the bracelet on her wrist. She slowly pointed her arm in each direction. "South," she said when the charm gleamed. Gwyn's general location hadn't changed since yesterday. Emerie sucked in a breath. Lifted her own bracelet to the south. The charm glittered almost frantically now, emitting an urgent sense of needing to move, to act, to be swift. Wonder flashed in Emerie's eyes before sharpening to grim focus. "Let's hurry." <|title|>Chapter 67 <|startofchapter|>Emerie confirmed that she'd been attacked and chased by the males Nesta had spied at the river. She'd leaped in as a final shot at survival, hit her head on a rock, and remembered nothing until the cave. Nesta gave her a swift, brutal rundown of her own encounters as they picked their way southward, mostly keeping silent to listen for any passing Illyrians. A few solo warriors ignored them as they trudged past, covered in blood, all heading east; a few packs battled each other; and many more bodies lay on the cold earth. They scanned for any gleam of copper hair. But they saw and heard no sign of Gwyn. They did not speak of whether their charms might be leading them toward a body. The day passed, and they found another cave as night fell, huddling together for warmth. Emerie insisted on taking the first watch, and Nesta slept at last. When her friend woke her, Nesta had the feeling that Emerie had let her doze for longer than she should have. In the morning, they emerged to find blood mixed with the snow on the ground. The animal tracks around the mouth of the cave were large enough to roil Nesta's stomach. Soon, snow began falling in earnest. Enough to veil the world ahead and behind, and any enemies with it. They shivered with each step southward, though they'd piled on extra jackets from fallen warriors, and as the morning crept toward midday, Nesta flexed her fingers to keep her hands from freezing through. If she survived, she'd never again complain about the summer heat; never again take for granted her coat and hat and gloves and that stupid scarf Cassian had made her wear out of her apartment all those months earlier. "I smell fire," Emerie murmured. They'd last spoken hours ago, concentrating instead on staving off the cold that was so deep it made their teeth ache. They halted behind two pines, surveying the terrain, the snow-heavy sky. Nesta consulted her charm. "That way," she said, inclining her head to the left. "The fire is also in that direction--the wind's carrying the smoke down from that ridge." "It could be Gwyn's fire," Emerie suggested hopefully. Nesta nodded, calming her pounding heart. They inched along, darting from tree to tree, listening for any danger around them, any hint of Gwyn ahead. They'd been moving for several minutes when the laughter reached them. Male laughter. Emerie's face paled as she held her bracelet toward the source of the laughter. Its charm glowed, glinting even in the sun's weak winter light. "Keep downwind," Nesta said grimly. "We'll take the ridge from the southern side." A nightgown hung on a branch near the camp's edge. Nesta's stomach rose, her meager breakfast burning her throat. A soft inhale of breath from Emerie was her friend's only sign of dread and pain as they climbed the last of the ridge toward the warriors camped atop it. They were boasting about the males they'd killed, the remaining trek toward Ramiel. Nesta strained to hear any hint of a female amongst them. If Gwyn's nightgown was hanging from a tree, then Gwyn-- To hell with reaching Ramiel. She'd spend the rest of the week here, killing them all slowly. The crest of the ridge lay ten feet above. Nesta controlled her breathing, keeping it silent and shallow, as the Valkyries had done. A glance at Emerie told her the female was doing the Same, even as rage kindled in her dark eyes. They'd decided before they ascended the slope that, as Emerie's wings arced too high above her head, Nesta would assess what lay beyond the ridge. Emerie held two knives; Nesta had one dagger and the Illyrian bow and two arrows. Nesta would have to use her peek to gather information about what weapons the males had, too. They swapped one final look, just as the males burst into laughter, and Nesta rose. Only high enough for her vision to clear the ridge's edge. Ten males sat around a fire, eating. Some had axes, some had swords, some had knives. Nesta picked out the male in the middle, laughing and talking the loudest, as the leader. His face--she'd seen his face before. Somewhere. No sign of Gwyn. Nesta ducked back down, pivoting toward Emerie. But Emerie was gone. Dragged halfway down the slope, and held between two grinning males. No one went in or out of the towering, gray-stoned castle. Azriel and Cassian took turns circling it from high above, waiting for any sign of a departing group, but the gates did not open. Nobody even came or departed from the walled city surrounding it. As if the gates had been locked, its people kept within. No villages dotted the hills around it, either. The castle seemed to have risen out of the earth and settled there, squatting like some enormous beast over the land. "Briallyn has to know we're here," Cassian said as he alit, his latest aerial survey completed. "You think she's waiting for us to make a move?" "I think the better question is if Eris is still alive," Azriel murmured, shadows whispering in his ear. "I can't get a read on it." "Waiting is pointless. We should break in. Keep out of sight, so she won't even know we're there and be tempted to use the Crown on us." "I told you: the place is guarded with as many wards as the House of Wind. If Briallyn is moving Eris, we'll be better off catching him then." "Maybe the merchant was wrong." "Maybe. We'll continue surveillance through tomorrow." Azriel crossed his arms. "I know you want to help Nesta. Maybe Amren can find some loophole in the laws ..." Cassian swallowed hard. "There's no loophole. If I interfere, we're both dead. And even if I did, Nesta would kill me if I jumped in to save her. She'd never forgive me for it." He'd had nothing else to do except contemplate it these past days. Nesta's fate was her own. She was strong enough to forge her own path, even through the horrors of the Blood Rite. He'd taught her the skills to do so himself. And even if the laws had allowed it, he would never take that away from her: the chance to save herself. "I didn't think you'd be stupid enough to fall for the nightgown, but I suppose that's the difference between a female thinking she's a warrior and the real thing," the cold-faced leader said as Nesta and Emerie were hurled at his booted feet. He chuckled, eyes glassy enough that Nesta wondered if someone had smuggled in a case of wine along with the weapons. "Hello Emerie." Nesta recognized the male then. Bellius, Emerie's hateful cousin. Emerie only spat, "Where the fuck is she?" Bellius shrugged. "Found the nightgown a few miles ago. Perhaps some other warrior fucked and killed her." His smile held nothing but evil. "You shouldn't have come here, cousin." Emerie retorted, "I was brought here against my will, cousin. But now I'll enjoy proving you and your father wrong. His teeth shone in the dim, snowy light through the forest canopy. "You've disgraced your father. Disgraced our family." Nesta eyed her weapons at the male's feet, all ceded upon Emerie's capture. "Was it you who sabotaged the Rite with these weapons?" Nesta seethed. Bellius chuckled again, though his eyes remained hazy. Flakes of snow gathered in his dark hair. "I wouldn't call it sabotage. And neither did she." Nesta froze. She'd seen that glassy-eyed look before--on the faces of Eris's soldiers. And that word--she. Had Briallyn somehow ensnared Bellius with the Crown? He'd looked glassy-eyed when she'd seen him in Emerie's shop months ago. When he'd recently come back from a scouting trip to the continent. Briallyn must have intercepted him then. Perhaps used the Crown to influence the Illyrians to break their sacred rules of the Rite, to plant the weapons here. But why? Bellius said to Emerie as the female shook with rage, "You know I can't let you leave here alive. Our family would never recover from the shame." "Fuck you," Emerie snarled. "Fuck your family." Bellius just eyed Nesta, smiling faintly. He brushed the snow from the shoulders of his jacket. "I get first crack at the High Fae bitch," he said to his warriors. Nesta's gut churned, acid burning through her. She had to find some way out of this, even outnumbered, unarmed, with no magic-- The pure panic and rage in Emerie's face told her that her friend, too, was coming up short on any solution. Bellius stepped toward them. And then blood splattered across the side of his face as the guts of one of his cronies spilled onto the snow before him. The thing that crawled over the ridge had been crafted of nightmares. Part cat, part serpent, all black fur and sharp claws and hooked teeth. It halted at the edge of the camp. Didn't look down at the gutted corpse of the warrior whose abdomen it had sliced open with a single swipe. Blood stained the snow around him in a wide circle. The warriors, Bellius with them, readied themselves. Bellius drew his sword. The creature leaped. Warriors screamed, weapons flashing in the bloodied, shrieking fray. "Run," Nesta ordered Emerie, surging to her feet. She snatched her weapons, and Emerie lunged to grab a sword as it flew from a warrior's hand and into the snow. A female voice rang out from the other side of the ridge. "Here!" Nesta nearly sobbed at the voice, at the coppery head of hair that popped up, the hand beckoning as Bellius and his males squared off against the thing tearing into them. Nesta and Emerie reached the hilltop's edge and slid down, snow spraying. Gwyn waited on its other side, bloodied and in a warrior's clothes, face filthy and torn, but eyes clear. "Follow me," Gwyn breathed, and they wasted no effort arguing as they half-fell down the hillside and sprinted through the trees, aiming to the southeast. They ran until the warriors' screams, the beast's roars, were distant. Until they faded away entirely. They stopped near a trickle of a stream through the snow, panting so hard Nesta had to lean against a tree. "How?" Emerie gasped out. "I woke up before the others," Gwyn said between breaths, a hand on her chest. "So did I," Nesta said. "I thought it was because I'm Made, but maybe it's because you and I aren't Illyrian." Gwyn nodded. "I started running, and found a cache of weapons almost immediately." She gestured to the blood on her Illyrian leathers. "I changed from the nightgown into someone else's clothes. From a body, I mean." She held up her wrist. "Did you know this thing glows? I remembered your wish for us: that we'd always be able to find our way back to each other. No matter what. I figured it would lead me to you. It must be somehow immune to the magic ban in the Rite." She smiled crookedly at Nesta. "I kept to the trees the first two nights, watching the beasts, and I spotted that horrible male and his companions this morning. Saw they'd found my nightgown and displayed it, and I knew they were hunting for you. I thought I'd take them out before they could find you." "You led the beast right to them." "I learned where the beasts sleep during the day," Gwyn said. "And that they get very angry when awoken." She pointed to the cuts on her face, her hands. "I barely outran that one as I led it toward the camp. My timing was just good luck, though." Emerie shuddered. "The Mother watched over us." Nesta could have sworn the charms on their bracelets let out a soft, singing hum at that. But Gwyn winced. "He's really your cousin?" "I hope I can refer to that sad fact in the past tense after this," Emerie said coolly. Nesta offered her a savage smile. "We need to keep moving. If Bellius or any of his friends survive, they'!l want to kill us even more now." Four more days. They had to last four more days. Gwyn said hoarsely as they moved into the wilderness, the snow mercifully lightening, "You two came looking for me." "Of course we did," Emerie said, interlacing her hand with Gwyn's, then Nesta's, and squeezing tightly. "It's what sisters do." <|title|>Chapter 68 <|startofchapter|>Nesta far preferred caves to trees. But as night fell and no caves revealed themselves, she found herself with no other option but to scale one behind Emerie and Gwyn, the latter revealing how she'd managed to rest while up one: a long stretch of rope. It must have been one of the items Queen Briallyn had the Illyrians leave, presumably for trussing captives or stringing them up or strangling them, and Gwyn had used it to bind herself to the trunk of a tree each night. It was long enough that the three of them, sitting side by side on a massive branch, were able to tie themselves together and to the tree itself. "How'd you avoid the creatures climbing up to eat you?" Emerie asked Gwyn, who was wedged between her and Nesta. "They were pulling Illyrians off the branches like apples." "Maybe because I don't smell like an Illyrian," Gwyn said, frowning at her clothes. "Despite these." She nodded to Nesta. "You don't, either. If we're lucky, our scents will mask Emerie's." "Perhaps," Nesta said, voice quieting as the night deepened. The snow had finally stopped hours ago, and even the whipping wind had eased. A small miracle. Gwyn peered forward to look at Emerie. "How much do you know about the Rite?" Emerie tucked her hands under her armpits for warmth. "A good amount. My father and brother--and my horrid cousins--talked about it endlessly. Any family gathering, all the males told and retold their oh-so- glorious tales from their own Rites. How many they killed, the beasts they escaped. None of them ever made it to Ramiel, though." Emerie nodded to Nesta. "They always hated that about Cassian. And Rhysand and Azriel. They hated that the three of them made it to the very top and won the whole thing." "The mountain is that hard to climb?" Gwyn asked, voice hushed. Emerie grunted. "Hard to reach; harder to climb. It's covered in jagged rock that slices you up like a cheese grater." Nesta shuddered. "And with our healing slowed to a human rate thanks to the rules of the Rite," Emerie went on, "we'll be lucky to make it to the Pass of Enalius in one piece." "What's that?" Nesta asked. Emerie's eyes shone. "Long ago--so long ago they don't even have a precise date for it--a great war was fought between the Fae and the ancient beings who oppressed them. One of its key battles was here, in these mountains. Our forces were battered and outnumbered, and for some reason, the enemy was desperate to reach the stone at the top of Ramiel. We were never taught the reason why; I think it's been forgotten. But a young Illyrian warrior named Enalius held the line against the enemy soldiers for days. He found a natural archway of stone amongst the tangle of boulders and made that his bottleneck. He died in the end, but he held off the enemy long enough for our allies to reach us. This Rite is all to honor him. So much of the history has been lost, but the memory of his bravery remains." As Cassian's name would last through history, Nesta thought. Would her own? Some small part of her wished for it. "There are a few different paths to the top of Ramiel," Emerie went on. "But the hardest one, the most infamous, is the one that takes you through the Pass of Enalius. Through the archway of stone. They call that path the Breaking." "Why am I not surprised that's the one Cassian and his brothers took?" Nesta grumbled. Emerie and Gwyn chuckled, but when a beast roared in the distance, they instantly fell quiet. Nesta murmured, "We should take watches." They divvied them up, Nesta taking first watch, Emerie second, and Gwyn third, and when that was decided, they sat in silence for a long moment. They'd eaten a meager meal of some roast squirrel Gwyn had managed to pilfer from an unsuspecting Illyrian, but hunger remained a vocal knot in their bellies. Nesta leaned into Gwyn's warmth, let it seep through her bones. And prayed to whatever god might be listening that the rumbling of their stomachs wouldn't reveal them to the beasts below. The fourth day brought sun, bright enough to make the snow blinding, even in the shadows of the pines. Gwyn had climbed their tree to its summit, then estimated that Ramiel lay days away to the northeast. Leaving them, should they make it, a day to climb its barren face. "I couldn't see if anyone else was ahead," Gwyn announced, "but there's a massive ravine nearby with a small wooden bridge. We must be the first to find it--if anyone else had, they would have destroyed the bridge to prevent further use. We need to reach it before the others do." "How far ahead?" Nesta asked, checking the knife at her side, the rope she'd coiled over a shoulder and the Illyrian bow there. Emerie had the sword she'd snatched from Bellius's camp, and Gwyn bore a shield and a knife of her own. "Several hours, if we can run it," Gwyn said. "Running risks attention," Emerie warned. "Walking risks losing the bridge," Nesta countered. The three of them looked at each other. "Run, then," Gwyn said, and they nodded. They set a light pace, meant to keep their steps silent and easy even with the snow underfoot, but running after days of exhaustion, limbs stiff with cold and belly mostly empty, made Nesta's head pound. "We've got company," Emerie panted, and the three of them halted. Not five hundred yards away stood six males. "Do you think they know about the bridge?" Gwyn breathed. As soon as she said it, the males burst into a sprint. Not toward them, but toward the ravine. Swearing, Nesta launched into movement with Gwyn and Emerie close behind, snow flying at their feet. "Hurry!" she shouted. Through the trees ahead, the world lightened--as if the forest had stopped. It had, she realized. At the ravine's edge, now equidistant between them and the males. Whoever made it first would cut the bridge behind them. And if they both reached the bridge at the same time ... "We have to intercept them," Nesta panted. "Well before they reach the bridge." She altered her trajectory abruptly, and Emerie and Gwyn moved with her as one. The males aiming for the bridge seemed to realize their enemy was now coming right at them. They slowed, reaching for their weapons. Nesta found her target, a male with a good foot on her, and swiped with her dagger as she careened into him. He'd been running fast enough that he lost his balance and went down as he dodged her blow. Precisely where she wanted him: right in front of Emerie. Nesta pivoted to the next male as her friend drove her sword into the first male's chest. The next male Nesta attacked was ready, swiping with a short sword. She ducked, twirling away--allowing him to land the blow on Gwyn's shield. Just as Gwyn ducked, slashing across his shins with a dagger. The four others-- Nesta weaved and bobbed against another male, dagger to dagger. Each movement sang in perfect harmony with her breath; each pivot of her body, her limbs, was part of a symphony. The male swung broadly at Nesta, and she glimpsed her opening. She let his blow go wide before slamming her elbow into his nose. Bone met bone with a crunch that rang through her. He went down with a grunt and Nesta's blade slashed silver and red across his throat. She didn't let herself feel the warm slickness of his blood. Another male already charged at her, and Gwyn shouted Nesta's name --grabbing her attention just before the priestess chucked a shield to her. Nesta caught it, spinning in the snow on one knee as she absorbed the impact of its weight. Expelling her breath in a mighty exhale, she lifted the shield high as the male brought down a sword meant for her head. Nesta met the blow, thrusting the shield upward and knocking the male off balance. She slammed her knife into his boot. He screamed, falling backward, and Nesta leaped to her feet, swinging the shield so hard it dented as it slammed into his head. The reverberations bit into her hand and forearm, but she kept her grip on the shield. Nesta whirled to the next opponent, but her friends had halted. The males around them were down. Utter silence filled the snowy forest. Even the birds in the pines had stopped chirping. "Valkyries," Emerie said, eyes blazing bright. Nesta grinned through the blood she knew was splattered on her face. "Hell yes." "Four fucking days," Cassian hissed from where he and Azriel monitored the castle. "We've been sitting on our asses for four fucking days." Azriel sharpened Truth-Teller. The black blade absorbed the dim sunlight trickling through the forest canopy above. "It seems you've forgotten how much of spying is waiting for the right moment. People don't engage in their evil deeds when it's convenient to you." Cassian rolled his eyes. "I stopped spying because it bored me to death. I don't know how you put up with this all the time." "It suits me." Azriel didn't halt his sharpening, though shadows gathered around his feet. Cassian blew out a breath. "I know I'm being impatient. I know that. But you really think we shouldn't go up to that damned castle and peek inside?" "I told you: their castle is too heavily warded, and full of magical traps that would trip up even Helion. Beyond that, Briallyn has the Crown. I have no interest in explaining to Rhys and Feyre why you died on my watch. And even less interest in explaining it to Nesta." Cassian stared toward the castle. "You think she's alive?" The question haunted him with every breath these last few days. "You'd know if she'd died," Azriel said, pausing his work and looking up at Cassian. He tapped his brother's chest with a scarred hand. "Right here --you'd know, Cass." "There are plenty of other unspeakable things that could be happening to her," Cassian said, voice thickening. "To Emerie and Gwyn." The shadows deepened around Azriel, his Siphons gleaming like cobalt fire. "You--we--trained them well, Cassian. Trust in that. It's all we can do." Cassian's throat tightened, but a motion drew Azriel's gaze away. Cassian shot to his feet. "Someone's leaving the castle." The two of them wordlessly launched into the skies, entering the cloud cover within moments. In the chill, thin air, Cassian glimpsed only what the gaps in the clouds offered. But it was enough. A small caravan had left the eastern city gates, departing down the bare road that led through the hills. "I don't see a prison wagon," Cassian said over the wind. Azriel's gaze remained on the earth below. "They don't need one," he said with quiet venom. Cassian had to wait until the next gap in the clouds to see. No, they hadn't needed a prison wagon. Because riding atop a white horse at the front of the party, side by side with a hunched, small figure, was Eris. "Stupid asshole," Cassian snarled. "She snared him with the Crown." "No," Az said quietly. "Look at his left. He's still got the dagger at his side. If he was in her thrall, he'd have already handed it over." "So possessing another Made object does protect him against the Crown." Which meant ... "Traitor." Cassian spat. "I don't know why I'm surprised." His hands curled into fists. "Let's get him, drag his ass home, and tear him apart." He'd been drawn away from Nesta for this? For Eris's games? Azriel's voice cut through the howling wind. "We follow them. Capture Eris now and we might not get anything out of him. At least not quickly. We trail them and learn just how far this betrayal goes. See who they're meeting with. It has to be important, for them to leave the safety of the castle." There was no arguing with the logic of it, even if Cassian's heart screamed at him with every flap of his wings to fly back home. Nesta, Emerie, and Gwyn hadn't even reached the bridge when a new group of males closed in, armed with bows and arrows. "We can make it," Emerie panted, sprinting at the head of their pack toward the bridge, now visible through the snow-crusted trees. "We can outrun them." Arrows whizzed past. Emerie hit the bridge first, the rickety contraption bouncing with her weight as she practically flew across it. Arrows thudded into the trees, the ground, the bridge posts, and Nesta didn't hesitate as she raced over the slats, not daring to look at the plunge below to a barren riverbed, only at Emerie as she cleared the bridge-- A scream of pain blasted behind them, and Nesta whirled at the end of the bridge to find Gwyn still on the other side with an arrow through her thigh. Down. Too close to the males closing in-- "CUI IT!" Gwyn roared. "Get up," Nesta ground out. "Get up." The priestess tried. She made it to her feet, but she'd never cross the bridge in time. So Nesta took the Illyrian bow off her shoulder. Took the coil of rope off, too, and handed it blindly to Emerie. "Tie one end to that tree, and then around yourself." Nesta didn't wait to see if she was obeyed before she knotted the other end to the arrow. Fitted the arrow into the bow. "We didn't learn archery," Emerie breathed. But Nesta nocked the arrow in place. Took aim. Right at Gwyn, who eyed the rope tied to the arrow, the other end around the tree and Emerie, and understood. "My sister taught me." Nesta's arms trembled as she drew back the string. "A long time ago." Teeth gritted, grunting, Nesta strained for every inch. Aimed for Gwyn as her friend ran toward the bridge, hobbling, face white with pain, leaving a trail of blood in the snow behind her. Nesta let the arrow soar as the first of the males broke through the trees. It flew true. Landed in the snow at Gwyn's feet. The priestess grabbed the arrow and wrapped the rope around her middle, over and over again as she ran for the bridge-- Nesta dropped the bow. Gwyn had reached the bridge's far side and was yelling, "CUT IT CUT IT CUI IT!" The males cleared the trees. They raced toward the bridge and the limping Gwyn, gaining on her fast. Nesta had only to throw out a hand before Emerie tossed the sword to her. Gwyn, limping halfway down the bridge, didn't stop moving. The males were only a few feet behind, crowding onto the rickety structure. Nesta brought the blade down upon the bridge's ropes. Even as the wood fell out from beneath her, Gwyn still seemed to be running, then leaping into the open air, only that rope around her middle to keep her from death as she began to plunge-- But Nesta had grabbed on to the rope, dropping before the bridge post and wrapping her legs around it, holding on tightly as inch after inch of rough fiber ripped through her hands. Behind her, braced against the pine tree, Emerie held on just as tightly. Gwyn fell toward the ravine floor, Illyrian males shrieking as they tumbled, untethered, with her. Nesta screamed, her palms on fire. Red coated the rope, but she clamped her torn hands tighter and breathed through the ripping, tearing sensation. Until Gwyn halted her plunge, yanked to a stop. The entire world seemed to suck in a breath as Nesta waited for the snap of the rope. But Gwyn only careened toward the rock face, grunting in pain as she hit. The Illyrians who had fallen had carried the only bows, thankfully, and the males on the other side cursed and spat. But Nesta and Emerie paid them no heed as they hauled Gwyn upward, bloodied hands turning the rope redder still. Each pull had Nesta panting against the pain until Gwyn cleared the cliff edge, grimacing as the arrow through her thigh touched the ground. It had been a clean shot, but blood soaked her leg. Her face was already pale. "Fucking bitches!" one of the males roared. "Oh, shut up!" Emerie bellowed across the ravine, helping Nesta lead Gwyn into the snowy trees, their breaths puffing out before them. "Find something new to call us!" They managed to slide the arrow out of Gwyn's leg and bind it using an extra shirt they'd taken from a dead warrior, but the priestess still limped. Her face had grown ashen, and even propped up between Nesta and Emerie, she kept their pace glacial. Yet they continued toward Ramiel, now visible ahead of them. They encountered no one else. It began snowing again around midday, and Gwyn's steps grew staggered. Her breathing too labored. Soon Nesta and Emerie were half-carrying her between them. By the time evening fell, just getting Gwyn high into a tree took all their remaining strength. They secured themselves to its trunk with the bloodied rope, and Nesta and Emerie idly plucked tiny rope fibers from their torn hands. They had no more food, only water. The next day was the same: slow walking, snow flurries, ears straining for any hint of other warriors, too many breaks, only water to fill their bellies, and, as night fell, a new tree. But this tree was the very last before a barren slope rose above them like a black beast. They'd made it to the foot of Ramiel. Nesta awoke before dawn, checked that Gwyn breathed, that her leg hadn't become infected, and stared at the black-and-gray slope ahead. Far up, too far, lay its peak with the sacred black stone. Three stars glinted above the mountain: Arktos and Oristes to the left and right; Carynth crowning them. Their light flared and waned, as if in invitation and challenge. "Cassian told me only twelve have made it this far," Nesta murmured to her friends. "We've already earned the title of Oristian just by being here." Emerie stirred. "We could stay up here today, wait it out overnight, and be done at dawn. To hell with any titles." It was the wise thing to do. The safe thing to do. "That path," Nesta said, pointing to a small one along Ramiel's base, "could also take us down south. No one would go that way, because it takes you away from the mountain." "So we'd come all this way and just hide?" Gwyn said, voice hoarse. "You're hurt," Nesta countered. "And that is a mountain in front of us." "So rather than try and fail," Gwyn demanded, "you would take the safe road?" "We would live," Emerie said carefully. "I'd love nothing more than to wipe the smirks off the lips of the males in my village, but not at this cost. Not if it costs us you, Gwyn. We need you to live." Gwyn studied Ramiel's craggy, unforgiving slope. Not much snow graced its sides. Like the wind had whipped it all away. Or the storms had avoided its peak entirely. "Is it living, though? To take the safe road?" "You're the one who's been in a library for two years," Emerie said. Gwyn didn't flinch. "I have. And I am tired of it." She surveyed the blood-soaked leather along her thigh. "I don't want to take the safe road." She pointed to the mountain, to the slender path upward. "I want to take that road." Her voice thickened. "I want to take the road that no one dares travel, and I want to travel it with you two. No matter what may befall us. Not as Illyrians, not for their titles, but as something new. To prove to them, to everyone, that something new and different might triumph over their rules and restrictions." A cold wind blew off Ramiel's sides. Whispering, murmuring. "They call this climb the Breaking for a reason," Emerie countered gravely. Nesta added, "We haven't eaten in days. We're down to the last of our water. To climb that mountain--" "I have been broken once before," Gwyn said, her voice clear. "I survived it. And I will not be broken again--not even by this mountain." Nesta and Emerie kept silent as Gwyn released a sharp breath. "A commander from Hybern raped me two years ago. He had his soldiers hold me down on a table. He laughed the entire time." Tears gleamed in Gwyn's eyes. "Hybern attacked in the dead of night. We were all asleep when they broke into the temple and began the slaughter. I shared a room with my twin, Catrin. We woke at the first of the screaming from the walls. She was ... Catrin was always the strong one. The smart and charming one. After our mother died, she took care of me. Looked out for me. And that night, she ordered me to go protect Sangravah's children while she ran right for the temple walls." Gwyn's voice shook. "When I reached the children's dorm, the slaughter was only a few halls away. I gathered the children, and we ran for one of the catacomb tunnels. They were accessible through a trapdoor in the kitchen, and I'd gotten the last child in when I heard the soldiers coming. I ... I knew they'd find us if I went and left the door uncovered, so I threw a rug over it and then moved the kitchen table atop it. I'd just finished moving the table when the soldiers found me." Nesta couldn't breathe. Gwyn stared at the mountain rising high above. Even the wind had seemed to quiet to hear her words. "The screaming had stopped, and they had other priestesses with them. Including Catrin. But their commander walked in, and asked me where the rest of us were. They wanted the children, too. The girls." Nesta could hear Emerie's thundering heart, its frantic beat echoing her own. Gwyn swallowed. "I told him the children had taken the mountain road to get help. He didn't believe me. So he grabbed Catrin, because our scents were nearly identical, you see, and told me that if I didn't reveal where the children were, he'd kill her. And when I didn't give the children up ..." Her mouth shook. "He beheaded Catrin right there, along with two other priestesses. And then he told his soldiers to go to work on us. He claimed me. I spat in his face." Tears slid down her cheeks. "And then he ... went to work." Nesta's heart cracked. "I hadn't yet participated in the Great Rite, and we were so remote up there that I never had the chance to lie with a male, and he took that from me, too. And then he called over three of his soldiers and told them to keep going until I revealed where the children had gone." Nausea roiled Nesta's gut. She couldn't have moved if she'd wanted to. "The first had just unbuckled his belt when Azriel arrived." Silent, unending tears streamed down Gwyn's face. "Azriel slaughtered all of them within moments. He didn't hesitate. But I could barely move, and when I tried to get up ... He gave me his cloak and wrapped me in it. Morrigan arrived a few minutes later, and then Rhysand appeared, and it became clear some of the soldiers had gotten away with the piece of the Cauldron, so Azriel headed after them. Mor healed me as best she could, then brought me to the library. I couldn't ... I couldn't bear to be at the temple, with the others. To see Catrin's grave and know I failed her, to see that kitchen every day for the rest of my life. "The first five months I was at the library, I barely spoke. I didn't sing. I went to the priestess who counsels all of us, and sometimes I just sat there and cried, or screamed, or said nothing. And then I began working with Merrill, upon Clotho's request, and the work focused me. Motivated me to get out of bed each morning. I started singing during the evening service. And then you came along, Nesta." Gwyn's eyes slid to hers, brimming with tears and pain and--hope. Precious, beautiful hope. "And I could tell something bad had happened to you, too. You were fighting it, though. Not letting it master you. I knew Catrin would have been the first to sign up for training, so ... I did, too. But even training these months hasn't erased the fact that I let my sister die. You asked me once why I don't wear the hood or the Invoking Stone. That stone is a sign of holiness. How can someone like me wear it?" Gwyn stopped at last, as if waiting for them to damn her. But tears were running down Emerie's face. They didn't halt as Emerie took Gwyn's hand and said, "You are not alone, Gwyn. Do you hear me? You are not alone." Nesta took Emerie's other hand as her friend went on, "We have suffered differently, but ... My father once beat me so badly he broke my back. He kept me in bed for weeks while I healed, telling people I was ill, but I wasn't. It was ... It was one of the lesser of his evils." She paused. "He beat my mother before that. And she ... I think she shielded me from him, because he never laid a hand on me until she was gone. Until he beat her so badly she couldn't recover. He made me dig her grave on a night with a new moon, and told people she'd miscarried a babe and died from blood loss." She angrily wiped a tear away. "Everyone believed him. They always believed him--he was so charming to them, so smart. Whenever people told me how lucky I was to have such a good father, I wondered if I'd imagined all the bad parts. Only my scars, my wings reminded me of the truth. And when he died, I was so happy, yet they expected me to mourn him. I should have told them all what a monster he was, but I didn't. They had turned a blind eye to my wing-clipping while he was alive; why should they bother to believe the truth now that he was among the honored dead?" Emerie's nose crinkled. "I still feel his fists on me. Still feel the impact of him slamming my head into a wall, or crunching my fingers in a door, or just railing on me until I blacked out." She was shaking, and Nesta squeezed her hand tighter. "He never gave me any money or allowed me to earn my own, never let me eat more than he deemed appropriate, and wormed his way so far into my mind that I still hear him when I look in the mirror or make a mistake." She swallowed. "I came to training because I knew he'd have forbidden it. I came to training to get his voice out of my head. And to know how to stop a male if one ever puts another hand on me again. But none of it will ever bring my mother back, or the fact that I hid while my father took out his rage upon her. Nothing will ever make that right. But this mountain ..." Emerie pointed to the small dirt path at the base of the peak. "I'll climb it for my mother. For her, I'll face the Breaking and go as far as I can." The two of them looked to Nesta. But her gaze remained upon the mountain. Its peak. That path leading up to it. The hardest of all the routes. Finally Nesta said, "I was sent to the House of Wind because I had become such a wretch, drinking and fucking everything in sight. My ... family couldn't stand it. For more than a year, I abused their kindness and generosity, and I did it because ..." She exhaled a shuddering breath. "My father died during the war. Before my eyes, but I did nothing to stop it." And then it all came out. She told the two of them every horrible thing she had done and thought and savored. Told them of the Cauldron and its terror and pain and power. Told them the worst of her, so that if they decided to risk climbing that mountain with her, they'd go into it with their eyes open. So that they could choose to pull back now. And when Nesta finished, she braced herself for the disappointment in their faces, the disgust. Gwyn's hand slid into hers, though. Emerie tightened her grip on Nesta's other hand, too. "Neither of you is to blame for what happened," Nesta whispered. "Neither of you failed anyone." "Neither did you," Emerie said softly. Nesta gazed at her friends. And saw pain and sorrow in their tear- streaked faces, but also the openness of letting each other see the broken places deep inside. The understanding that they would not turn away. Nesta's eyes stung as Gwyn said, "So we climb Ramiel. We take the Breaking. We win to prove to everyone that something new can be as powerful and unbreakable as the old rules. That something no one has ever seen before, not entirely Valkyrie nor entirely Illyrian, can win the Blood Rite." "No," Nesta said at last. "We win to prove to ourselves that it can be done." She bared her teeth in a feral grin at the mountain. "We win the whole damn thing." <|title|>Chapter 69 <|startofchapter|>Eris and the small caravan rode eastward for three days, stopping only to eat and sleep. Their pace was leisurely, and from the glimpses Cassian and Azriel got through the clouds, it seemed Eris was unchained. Briallyn's small, hunched figure rode at his side each day. But they caught no sign of the Crown on her--no glint of gold in the sun. The Blood Rite would end the next day. Cassian had heard nothing of Nesta, felt nothing. But he'd barely slept. Had hardly been able to keep his focus on the party ahead as they entered a low-lying forest beyond the hills, ancient and knotted and full of hanging moss. "I've never been here before," Azriel murmured over the wind. "It feels like an old place. It reminds me of the Middle." Cassian kept his silence. Didn't speak as they trailed their quarry deeper into the wood to a small lake in its center. Only when the party halted at its dark shores did Azriel and Cassian land nearby. Begin their silent tracking on foot. The group must not have been concerned about being overheard, because Cassian could make out their words from well beyond their campsite along the shore. Twenty of them had gathered, a mixture of what looked like human nobility and soldiers. Eris's white stallion had been hitched to a branch. But the male-- "Over here, Cassian," Eris crooned. Cassian whirled, and found the High Lord's son holding a knife at his ribs. By midday, Nesta could barely breathe. Gwyn was dragging, Emerie was panting, and they'd begun to ration their water. No matter how high they climbed, how many boulders they cleared along the narrow path, the peak grew no closer. They saw no one else. Heard no one else. A small mercy. Nesta's breath singed her lungs. Her legs wobbled. There was only the pain in her body and the relentless circling of her thoughts, as if they were vultures gathering to feast. She just wanted to turn off her mind-- Was it possible that the Breaking wasn't merely physical, but mental as well? That this mountain somehow dredged up every bit of her fear and sucked her mind deep into it? They halted for lunch, if water could be called lunch. Gwyn's leg was bleeding again, her face ghostly white. None of them spoke. But Nesta noted their haunted eyes--knew they heard their own horrors. They rested for as long as they dared, then moved again. Keep going upward. That was the only way. Step to step to step. "It looks like we're two-thirds of the way up," Emerie rasped from ahead. Night had fallen, the moon bright enough to keep the Breaking's path illuminated. To show those three stars above Ramiel's peak. Beckoning. Waiting. If they reached it by dawn, it'd be a miracle. "I need to rest," Gwyn said faintly. "Just--just another minute." Her face was gray, her hair limp. The leathers along her leg soaked red. Emerie had taken a spill on a loose rock two hours earlier and twisted her ankle--she was limping now as well. They were moving too slowly. "The Pass of Enalius isn't too far ahead," Emerie insisted. "If we can make it through the archway, then it's a clear shot to the top." Gwyn breathed, "I'm not sure if I can." "Let her rest, Emerie," Nesta said, sitting on a small boulder beside Gwyn. Dawn had to be four hours off. And then it would be over. Would it matter if they'd reached the peak by then? If they'd won? They'd gotten this far. They'd-- "How did they get here?" Gwyn asked, swearing. Nesta went still. From her vantage point, she could see straight down. To where a beam of moonlight illuminated a familiar-looking male and six others climbing the mountain behind them. A good ways back, but closing in. "Bellius," Emerie whispered. "We need to go," Nesta said, lurching to her feet. Gwyn followed, wincing. Nesta sized up the males. Emerie and Gwyn were too injured to fight, too exhausted, and-- "Put your arms around my neck," Nesta said, offering her back to Gwyn. "What?" Nesta did it for her. She had climbed the ten thousand stairs of the House of Wind, up and down, over and over and over again. Perhaps for this. This very moment. "We're winning this fucking thing," Nesta said, bending to grab Gwyn's legs. Teeth gritted, Nesta hoisted Gwyn onto her back. The muscles in her thighs strained, but held. Her knees did not buckle. Her gaze lay on the terrain ahead. She would not look behind. So Nesta began to climb, Emerie limping beside her. With the wind as their song, Nesta and Emerie found their rhythm. They climbed, squeezing and slithering and hauling their weight. And the males fell behind, like the mountain was silently whispering, Go, go, go. "I knew you were a lying bastard," Cassian said through his teeth. Azriel, a step away, could do nothing. Not with Eris angling that knife--Nesta's dagger--into Cassian's ribs. He could have sworn flame seared into him where the knife met his leather. "But this is low, even for you." "Honestly, Im disappointed in Rhysand," Eris said, digging the tip of the knife through Cassian's leathers enough for him to feel its bite, and that ripple of searing flame. Whether it was Eris's power through the blade or whatever Nesta had Made it into, he didn't care. He just needed to find some way to avoid it piercing his skin. "He's become so bland these days. He didn't even try to look into my mind." "You can't win this," Azriel warned with quiet menace. "You're a dead male walking, Eris. Have been for a long time." "Yes, yes, all that old business with the Morrigan. How boring of you to cling to it so." Cassian blinked. The Morrigan. Eris never referred to her like that. "Let him go, Briallyn," Cassian growled. "Come play with us instead." The Made dagger slid away from his ribs, and a withered, reedy voice said from nearby, "I'm already playing with you, Lord of Bastards." Nesta's legs shook. Her arms trembled. Gwyn was a half-dead weight at her back. The blood loss had made her so weak it seemed she could barely hold on. The Breaking flowed through an archway of black stone where the path became broader and easier. The Pass of Enalius. Emerie had paused only long enough to run a bleeding hand over the stone, her dirty face full of wonder and pride. "I am standing where none of my ancestors have been before," she whispered, voice choked. Nesta wished she could pause alongside her friend. Could marvel with her. But to stop, even for a breath ... Nesta knew that once she halted, she wouldn't be able to move again. The flattening of the path around the archway was only a temporary relief. They soon reached a cluster of stones--the last of the impossible climbing before it seemed to become a direct path to the top. Dawn remained a good two hours off. The full moon's light was beginning to fade as it sank toward the west. The group of males would catch them before the summit. Nesta's fingers spasmed as she reached for Emerie's outstretched hand where her friend knelt atop one of the sharp boulders. If they could get past this section-- Her knees buckled, and Nesta went down, face smacking into a rock so hard stars burst across her vision, but all she could do was hold on to Gwyn as they tumbled and slammed into rocks and gravel and rolled and rolled downward, Emerie's screams ringing in her ears, and then-- Nesta collided with someone hard. No--not someone, though she could have sworn she felt warmth and breath. She'd hit the archway of stone. They'd fallen all the way back down to the Pass of Enalius, dangerously close to the males who pursued them. "Gwyn--" "Alive," her friend groaned. Emerie slid to her knees on the path. "Are you hurt?" Nesta couldn't move as Gwyn untangled herself. The two of them were covered in dirt, debris, and blood. "I can't ..." Nesta panted. "I can't carry you anymore." Silence fell. "So we rest," Gwyn managed to say, "then we continue." "We'll never make it in time," Nesta said. "Or at least before the males catch up." Emerie swallowed. "We try anyway." Gwyn nodded. "Rest a minute first. Maybe the dawn will reach us before they do." "No." Nesta peered down the path. "They're climbing too fast." Again, silence. "What are you saying?" Emerie asked carefully. Nesta marveled at the hope and bravery in their faces. "I can hold them off." "No," Gwyn said, voice sharpening. Nesta schooled her features into utter coldness. "You are both injured. You will not survive the fight. But you can manage the climb. Emerie can help--" "No." "I can use the bottleneck of the path right there," Nesta plowed ahead, pointing to the space beyond the archway, "to keep them off long enough for you two to reach the top. Or dawn to come. Whichever happens first." Gwyn bared her teeth. "I refuse to leave you here." Emerie's pained face told Nesta enough: she understood. Saw the logic. Nesta said to Gwyn, "It is the only way." Gwyn screamed, "ll IS NOI THE ONLY WAY!" And then she was sobbing. "I will not abandon you to them. They will kill you." "You need to go," Nesta said, even as her hands began shaking. "Now." "No," Gwyn wept. "No, I won't. I'll face it with you." Something deep in Nesta's chest cracked. Cracked open completely, and what lay within bloomed, full and bright and pure. She wrapped her arms around Gwyn. Let her friend sob into her chest. "I'll face it with you," Gwyn whispered, over and over again. "Promise me we'll face it together." Nesta couldn't stop her tears then. The chill wind froze them on her cheeks. "I promise," she breathed, stroking Gwyn's matted hair. "I promise." Gwyn sobbed, and Nesta let herself sob with her, squeezing her tightly. Letting her stroking hand come to rest on Gwyn's neck. A pinch in the right spot, exactly on that pressure point Cassian had shown her, and it was done. Gwyn went down. Unconscious. Nesta grunted, carefully lowering Gwyn to the ground as she peered up at Emerie. Her friend's face was grave, but unsurprised. Nesta only said, "Can you carry her the rest of the way?" It would be a feat in itself. "Or at least keep going until dawn?" "I will." Nesta knew Emerie would find that strength. She had a soul of steel. Emerie laid her sword before Nesta. Her dagger. The shield. "Keep the canteens," Nesta said, patting her own. "I've got enough." Another lie. "She'll never forgive you for this," Emerie said. "I know." The males had risen higher. She didn't wait for Emerie to speak before she helped ease Gwyn onto Emerie's back, the latter hissing at the weight upon her wings, splaying them at awkward angles. Nesta tied the bloodied rope around them, binding them together. Emerie grimaced, but managed to move a few steps. "Come with us," Emerie offered, eyes lined with silver. Nesta shook her head. "Consider it the repayment of a debt." A tear slipped down Emerie's cheek. "For what?" "For being my friends. Even when I didn't deserve it." Emerie's face crumpled. "There is no debt, Nesta." But Nesta smiled softly. "There is. Let me pay it." Swallowing back her tears, Emerie nodded. Hefted Gwyn higher and winced, but managed to hobble through the arch. Toward the rocks and the last stretch of the Breaking, all the way up to the peak. Nesta did not say good-bye. She just inhaled through her nose, held the breath, then exhaled. Repeated her Mind-Stilling again and again, until her breath became the steady crash of waves and her heart became solid stone, and every inch of her body was hers to control. She was the rock against which the surf broke. These males would break against her, too. They had no choice. With Eris in Briallyn's grip, Cassian and Azriel could only follow the hunched, cloaked figure to the lake. Cassian didn't dare consider whether the Crown was being used on him. If it'd be used on Azriel. The party in which Eris and Briallyn had traveled had dispersed, nowhere to be seen along the lake. Had they even been real? Or just an illusion? A glance at Az revealed his brother stone-faced, cold fury in his eyes. The hunched, cloaked figure stopped before the stones of the lake. Eris halted beside her. "Out with it, then," Cassian said. Briallyn drew back the hood of her cloak. There was nothing there. The material fell and pooled on the stones. Eris's face remained blank. Empty. "Just an animated kernel of magic," a slithering voice drawled from the lake. Thirty feet from shore, standing atop the surface, floated a shadow. It shifted and warped, its edges fluttering, but it had the vague shape of a tall male. "Who are you?" Azriel demanded. But Cassian knew. "Koschei," he whispered. Nesta stood under the Pass of Enalius for a long minute. She took out her canteen. Drank the last of the water. Chucked it to the side. She tucked the dagger into her belt. Picked up the sword. And drew a line in the dirt in front of the archway. Her final stand. Her last line of defense. Nesta gathered the shield. Peered over her shoulder to where Emerie had cleared the last cluster of boulders and now struggled up the long, straight path to the peak. A small, quiet smile passed over Nesta's face. Then she hefted her shield. Angled her sword. And stepped beyond the line she'd drawn to meet her enemy. <|title|>Chapter 70 <|startofchapter|>Bellius sent his warriors through the bottleneck first. A wise move, designed to wear Nesta down. She had no choice but to meet them. There were no hateful voices in her head. Only the knowledge that her friends lay behind her, beyond the line she'd drawn in the earth, and she would not cede that line to these males. She would not fail her friends. She had no room for fear in her heart. Only calm. Determination. And love. Nesta's lips curved in a smile as the first of the warriors ran at her, sword raised. She was still smiling when she lifted her shield to take the full impact of the blow. Nesta slammed her shield into the first male, sliced the shins of the second, and dispatched the third with a parry that sent him careening into the fourth and both of them tumbling to the ground. One for each breath, a movement for each inhale and exhale. She stilled her mind again, let it root her. For a heartbeat, she wondered what she might have done with Ataraxia in her hand. What she might do with this body, these skills trained into her bones. If she was worthy of the sword at last. She'd opted for a name in the Old Language, a tongue no one had spoken in fifteen thousand years. A name Lanthys had laughed to hear. Nesta engaged four of the Illyrians at once, then five, then six, and the males started to go down, one after another. Nesta held the line in a storm of unflinching focus and death, guarding the friends at her back. Ataraxia, she had named that magic sword. Inner Peace. <|title|>Chapter 71 <|startofchapter|>The being that stood atop the lake was a shadow. It must be a reflection, Cassian thought. Smoke and mirrors. "Where is Briallyn?" Azriel demanded, Siphons flaring like cobalt flame. "I spend so many months preparing for you," Koschei crooned, "and you don't even wish to speak to me?" Cassian crossed his arms. "Let Eris go, and then we'll talk." He prayed Koschei didn't know of the Made dagger that Eris had again sheathed at his side, that the Crown's aura of power had blinded even Briallyn to its presence. But if the death-lord got his hands on it ... Fuck. Cassian didn't let himself so much as glance toward the blade. "You fell for it rather easily," Koschei went on, "though you took your time making contact. I thought you'd rush in for the kill, brute that you are." They could make out nothing of him beyond the shadows of his form. Even Azriel's own shadows kept tucked behind his wings. Koschei laughed, and Azriel stiffened. Like his shadows had murmured a warning. His Siphons flared again. "Run," Az breathed, and the pure terror on his brother's face had Cassian spreading his wings, readying to laanch-- But his wings halted. His entire body halted. Azriel grabbed Eris and shot into the skies, the Made dagger with them. They had to get it far from Koschei. Yet Cassian could not move. Cassian's Siphons glowed like fresh blood, then sputtered out. Azriel shouted his name from high above. Koschei drifted closer to the shore. "You can take him now, Briallyn. You have plenty of time before dawn." A small, hunched figure emerged from behind the trees. A crone. A golden crown sat upon her head, right above her arched ears. Hate burned in her eyes. Koschei said, "Tell my Vassa I'm waiting." His shadows swirled. Azriel soared back toward the ground, his Siphons creating a blue orb of power encircling him, but Briallyn had already reached Cassian. "I have need of you, Lord of Bastards," the ancient-looking queen seethed. Cassian could say nothing. Couldn't move. The Crown glowed like molten iron. Briallyn ordered Koschei, "Winnow us." The death-lord pointed a long-fingered hand at Briallyn and Cassian. Flicked his fingers once. And the world vanished, spinning into blackness and wind. Nesta's shield had become a millstone. Her sword, slick with blood, hung from her hand, a leaden, slippery weight. Every inch of her body burned. With exhaustion, with her wounds, with the knowledge that behind that line she'd drawn in the dirt, through the archway at her back, Gwyn and Emerie were still breathing, still climbing that final piece of the Breaking to the summit. So she'd killed the Illyrian males who squeezed through those jagged rocks. Who believed they'd find an untrained, helpless female and found death waiting for them before the archway. Only one remained. Some inner part of her quaked at the unseeing, battered faces. The blood running from the corpses. Valkyrie, she whispered to herself. You are a Valkyrie, and once again, you are holding the pass. If you fall, it will be to save the friends who saved you, even when they didn't know they were doing so. A glance over her shoulder showed Emerie still scaling the last of the summit, so slow, but so close. Dawn neared, but ... they could make it. Win this thing. Nesta again faced the archway. Knew who she'd find. Bellius leaned against a boulder, sword in hand, shield dangling from the other. "Impressive work for a High Fae whore." The male pushed off the rock of the archway, not sparing a glance at the warriors he'd let die for him. "You know, our god--the first of the Illyrians --held the ground against enemy hordes right where you're standing." There wasn't a scratch on him. No sign of exhaustion despite the climb. Bellius smirked. "He drew a line in the dirt as well." He nodded toward it. "Nice little touch." Nesta hadn't known that tidbit of their history. But she revealed nothing. She became blood and dirt and pure determination. "It didn't end well for Enalius," Bellius went on. "He died after defending this spot for three days. Climbed with his guts hanging out to the sacred stone at the top and died there. It's why we do this stupid thing. To honor him." She still didn't speak. But Bellius's eyes drifted to the peak above. Displeasure narrowed them. "My crippled cunt of a cousin and that half- breed disgrace this sacred place." A flutter of light from the summit washed over Bellius's features. Nesta's lips curled. Widened into a smile at Bellius's growl. Gwyn and Emerie had touched the sacred stone and been winnowed away by its magic. "Seems like you didn't win," Nesta said to Bellius at last. Hatred darkened Bellius's glassy eyes. As if in answer, snow began falling, great clouds twining around the mountain. Rumbling. The snow clung to the rocks this time. "I never wanted to win." Bellius's mouth twitched upward. "I just wanted this." He launched at her. <|title|>Chapter 72 <|startofchapter|>Emerie and Gwyn had won. They'd made it through the Breaking. It was enough. Nesta only had to hold this asshole off for a few more minutes--until dawn. Then it'd be over. Her power would return, and she could ... Nesta didn't know what she'd do. But at least she'd have that weapon. Bellius lunged, swifter and surer than the others. Nesta barely had time to lift her shield. The impact shook her to her bones, but he was already pivoting, his own shield swinging for her face-- She twirled out of range. Gods, she was tired. So, so tired, and-- He didn't stop. Didn't give her a moment's reprieve as he attacked, parrying and thrusting, driving her back toward the line, the archway. Hatred burning in his face. Such blind, driving hatred. Without reason. Without end. The snow thickened, the wind howling, and the sky rumbled. Bellius struck again, and Nesta lifted her shield, meeting the blow. Lightning flashed, thunder booming in its wake. A storm had swept around the mountain, veiling the moon, the stars. Only the lightning arcing across the sky provided illumination to Bellius's onslaught. She was on the defensive, and if she wanted to survive this, she had to find some way to change that-- But the snow slickened the stones, the dirt, and as lightning lashed across the sky again, blinding them both, he thought faster. Acted faster. Used her blink to slam his shield into her own, knocking it from her grip. It clattered onto a stone nearby. Her fool's look toward it had him knocking the sword from her hand, too. Disarmed like a novice. Thunder cracked again, and Bellius laughed. "Disappointing." He paused, surveying her. And smiled before he attacked once more. Nesta dodged assault after assault, but not fast enough to avoid the precise slices Bellius landed to her arms, her legs, her face. She slowed, her feet sliding on the slippery mountainside as the thunder-snow raged. Another blow and her feet left the ground. The breath slammed out of her as her spine hit something unyielding. A boulder. Nesta's body refused to move as she panted. Warm blood trickled out of her nose. Bellius approached, tossing his weapons aside. "Doing this with my bare hands will be so much more satisfying." Move. The word rang through Nesta. She had to keep moving. On shaking hands, as lightning cracked and the snow swirled, Nesta pushed up off the rock. Her legs trembled, begging her to sit, to stop, to just fucking die already. Bellius advanced, his powerful body sinking into a fighting position. The wild hatred in his gaze seared her. Her friends had made it ... but she did not want to die. She wanted to live, and live well, and live happily. Wanted to do it with-- Nesta braced her feet apart. Settled her aching, battered body. Bellius snorted. "You really think you can beat me in hand-to-hand combat?" Blood flowed from her mouth, her nose. But Nesta smiled anyway, its tang coating her tongue. "I do." Bellius threw his first punch, putting the entire force of his powerful body into it. Nesta blocked it, driving her fist into his nose. Bone crunched. Bellius howled, falling back a step. And Nesta hissed, "Because my mate taught me well." <|title|>Chapter 73 <|startofchapter|>Mate. The word was a shooting star through Nesta as she and Bellius launched at each other, punching, kicking, dodging. As if voicing the word had given her this final surge of strength-- Bellius slammed his fist into Nesta's jaw, so hard she rocked back a few steps. She ducked his next move, landing a blow on his ribs. But he kept herding her toward the archway, the line. Wearing her down. Outlasting her. She'd keep going. Until the end, she'd fight him. Bellius's fist connected with her left cheek. Pain cracked through her. Nesta's feet went out from under her. She flew backward, and time slowed. She landed on the other side of the line in the earth, and could have sworn the mountain shuddered. Nesta crawled. She didn't care how pathetic it made her appear. She crawled away from Bellius, through the arch, destroying the line she'd drawn. He advanced, bloodied and sneering. "I'm going to enjoy this." She'd claimed it would be fine to die for her friends, that it was fine because they had made it, they had won, but to be killed by this nobody-- Nesta snarled. She had nothing left. Her body had given up on her. Like so many others had. Bellius drew a knife from his boot. "I think I'd rather slit your throat." She was alone. She had been born alone, and would die alone, and this awful male would be the one to kill her-- Thunder cracked, and the entire mountain shook with its impact. Bellius took one step toward her, knife lifting. Blood sprayed. At first, she thought it was lightning that flashed across his throat, opening it so wide that his blood showered the snowy air. But then she saw the wings. The other set of wings. And when Bellius slumped to the earth, choking on his lifeblood, revealing Cassian standing there, teeth bared, blade in hand, she wondered if the thunder rocking the mountain had been his rage. Cassian stepped over Bellius's dying body and offered her a hand. Not to sweep her into his arms, but to help her rise. As he had always done. Nesta gripped his hand and stood, her body bleating in protest. But she forgot her pain, the death around them, as he folded her into his chest and held her tightly, whispering tenderly into her bloody hair, "And now I'm going to slit your pretty little throat." Cassian's words were not his own. His hands were not his own as Nesta--as his mate--tried to pull away and he clamped his arms around her. Hard enough that her bones shifted against his hands. He was screaming. Silently, endlessly. Screaming at her to fight him, to run. Screaming at himself to stop it. But he couldn't. No matter what he did, he could not stop it. "Cassian," Nesta said, struggling. Kill me, he silently begged her. Kill me before I have to do this. "Cassian." Nesta shoved against his chest. But his arms held firm. Squeezed her tighter. "He can't obey you, Nesta Archeron," from behind Nesta. "He's mine now." Cassian could not even widen his eyes in warning. His arms loosened on the queen's silent command, allowing Nesta to turn in his embrace. Presenting her to Briallyn, who wore the Crown atop her thin, white hair. rasped an old, withered voice <|title|>Chapter 74 <|startofchapter|>Satisfaction flashed in Briallyn's dark eyes, and the three simple spikes of the golden Crown glowed as she lifted a hand. The storm halted. Cleared away to reveal the pale gray sky before dawn, the last of the stars winking out. Even nature could be influenced by the Crown. Horror coiled through Nesta as Cassian's arms slackened. She launched herself a few steps away, whirling, but knew what she'd find. Cassian stood still as a statue. As if he'd been turned to stone. His eyes, normally so bright and alive, had become glassy. Empty. Briallyn had willed him that way. Had moved people around like chess pieces to ensure that Nesta arrived here. "Why?" Nesta said. Briallyn's thick fur cloak ruffled in the mountain wind. "Your power is too strong--throwing you into this primitive spectacle wore you down." "You had the Illyrians bring me here?" "My intent was to grab the maimed one." Nesta's blood boiled at the mention of Emerie. "Bellius fed me the information about your friendship and I saw how much she meant to you when we were linked through the Harp and the Crown. I knew that if I captured her, brought her here, you'd follow, law or no law. You're reckless and conceited enough to think you could save her. But you made it easy for me: you went right to her house in Windhaven. Spared me the trouble of luring you. I let those witless Illyrians take her and the half-breed as an amusing bonus." Nesta didn't dare look up at Cassian. "All to wear me down?" "Yes. And without your magic--" Nesta cut in, demanding, "I was worn down days ago. Why hold off until now?" Briallyn glowered at the interruption. "I was waiting for him." She nodded toward Cassian, who was bristling with rage--something like loathing and fear now pushing through the cloudiness in his eyes. "Days and days, I waited for him to get close enough for me to use the Crown to ensnare him. I had to use that brash princeling Eris to draw him in." A soft laugh. "Eris tried to help his soldiers when they surrounded him during his hunt. Help those wretches. He rode right up to them, rather than gallop away as any wise person would. They grabbed him with minimal fuss. Even those infernal hounds of his could do nothing as Koschei winnowed him away." Was Eris dead? Or now her slave? Cassian's face revealed nothing. But Briallyn smiled at him. "I was getting worried you'd never approach. Poor Eris would have met a very sorry end if that had been the case. His fire wouldn't have withstood Koschei's lake, I don't think." She glanced toward Bellius's corpse. "He's a hateful brute--just like you, Cassian. Arrogant and brash. He wandered off from his scouting unit to look for fun in my lands. So I showed him my idea of fun." Her thin lips twisted in a mockery of a smile. Briallyn chuckled. "I told him to hunt you down, not kill you, but it seems I wasn't precise enough in my wording. And it's rather satisfying to watch someone kill, especially with tools you've provided for them. I knew the Rite would be so much more entertaining with weapons. I suppose I could have ordered Bellius to stand down, but I was rather enjoying the sight." Nesta demanded, "Why are you doing this? Why don't you want peace?" "Peace?" Briallyn laughed. "What peace can I have now?" She waved a hand down at herself. "What I want is retribution. What I want is power. What I want is the Trove. So I made sure you knew it, too. Made sure you became my unwitting partner in collecting the items of power from this godsforsaken territory. And I know there's only one way you'll yield them to me. One person for whom you'd do so." A smile toward Cassian. "Your mate." "I don't have the Trove here." "You can summon it. The objects will answer to you, no matter the wards on them. And you will hand them over to me." "And then you'll kill us both?" "And then I shall Make myself young again. I shall leave you both untouched." Nesta scented the lie. Cassian grunted out, "Don't." Briallyn shot him a surprised look, and his mouth shut. He trembled, but remained standing still. Yet the glassiness in his gaze had cleared. "So," Briallyn said, "you will trade me the Trove for your mate's life. You are so thoroughly Fae now, Nesta Archeron. You would allow the world to turn to ash and ruin before you let your mate die." She frowned with distaste at the bodies around them, the blood. "Summon the Trove, and let us be done with this messy business." Nesta couldn't stop her shaking. To give Briallyn the Trove, if she could even summon it ... "No." "Then I shall have to try to convince you." Briallyn snapped her fingers at Cassian, and Nesta had half a second to turn before he was upon her. Panic and rage shone in his eyes, but Nesta could do nothing, absolutely nothing, as he barreled into her, knocking her to the ground. Pinning her there, an arm at her throat, the weight of him, once so intimate and loving, now the thing that would hold her here, hurt her-- Pleading filled his face, utter anguish, as he fought the Crown. Fought it and lost. "It will destroy him, of course, to kill his own mate," Briallyn said. "You will be dead, and you will die knowing you doom him to a life of misery." Cassian's free arm shook as he pulled the knife he'd killed Bellius with from his belt. Brought it toward her. "You kill me," Nesta gasped, "and you don't get the Trove. You'!l never find it." "There are others in your court as delusional as you are. They'll get it for me one way or another, with the right incentive. Granted, I'II need your blood to unlock the wards on the Trove. I saw that, too, you know. When you so foolishly held the Harp in the Prison. But I suppose killing you will provide plenty of the blood required." Briallyn nodded to Cassian. "Get her up." Nesta didn't fight as he hauled her to her feet. Held the knife against her throat. Pleading shone in his eyes. Pleading and fear and--and love. Love she did not deserve, had never once deserved, but there it was. Just as it had been there from the instant they'd met. What was the value of the world, compared to him? To this? "This is growing tiring," Briallyn said. Nesta let her mate see the love shining in her face. The sky filled with soft, gentle light. "Kill," Briallyn ordered Cassian. Nesta had loved Cassian since she'd first laid eyes on him. Had loved him even when she did not want to, even when she had been swallowed by despair and fear and hatred. Had loved him and destroyed herself because she didn't believe she deserved him, because he was all that was good, and brave, and kind, and she loved him, she loved him, she loved him-- Cassian's arm shook, and Nesta braced herself for the blow, showing him her forgiveness, her unending, unbreakable love for him-- But Cassian roared. And then the knife twisted in his hand, angling not toward her, but toward his own heart. Of his own free will. Against the Crown's hold, against a gasping Briallyn, he chose to drive the knife into his own heart. Kill, she had said. But had not specified who. And as the sun broke over the horizon, as Cassian's knife plunged for his chest, Nesta erupted with the force of the Cauldron. There was nothing in Nesta's head but screaming. Nothing in her heart but love and hatred and fury as she let go of everything inside her and the entire world exploded. The baying of her magic was a beast with no name. Avalanches cascaded down the cliffs in seas of glittering white. Trees bent and ruptured in the wake of the power that shattered from her. Distant seas drew back from their shores, then raced in waves toward them again. Glasses shook and shattered in Velaris, books tumbled off the shelves in Helion's thousand libraries, and the remnants of a run-down cottage in the human lands crumbled into a pile of rubble. But all Nesta saw was Briallyn. All she saw was the slack-jawed crone as Nesta leaped upon her, throwing her frail body to the rocky ground. All she knew was screaming as she clutched Briallyn's face, the Crown glowing blindingly white, and roared her fury to the mountains, to the stars, to the dark places between them. Gnarled hands turned young. A lined face became beautiful and lovely. White hair darkened to raven black. But Nesta bellowed and bellowed, letting her magic rage, unleashing every ember. Erasing the queen beneath her from existence. The young hands turned to ash. The pretty face dissolved into nothing. The dark hair withered into dust. Until all that was left of the queen was the Crown on the ground. <|title|>Chapter 75 <|startofchapter|>Cassian lay facedown on the earth. Nesta rushed toward him, praying, sobbing, her magic still echoing through the world. She turned him over, searching for the knife, the wound, but-- The knife lay beneath him. Unbloodied. He groaned, cracking his eyes open. "I figured," he rasped, "I should lie low while you did that." Nesta gaped at him. Then burst into tears. Cassian sat up, soothing sounds on his tongue, and took her face in his hands. "You Unmade her." Nesta glanced to the Crown on the earth--the black stain where Briallyn had been. "She had it coming." He chuckled, leaning his brow against hers. Nesta closed her eyes, breathing in his scent. "You are my mate, Cassian," she said against his lips, and kissed him softly. "And you're mine," he said, kissing her in turn. And then his hands slid into her hair. And the kiss ... It did not matter, the world around them, or the Crown at her feet, as he kissed her. A mate's kiss. One that set their souls twining, glowing. She pulled back, letting him see the joy in her eyes, her smile. His awe, his own joy, made her throat tighten. "Cassian, I--" But two figures landed beside them, making the mountain shudder, and they whirled to find Mor and Azriel there, faces grave. "Eris?" Cassian demanded. "Safe, and the Made dagger is in our possession again," Azriel said, "though Eris is pissed and confused. He's at the Hewn City. But--" "It's Feyre," Mor said. <|title|>Chapter 76 <|startofchapter|>The river house was so silent. Like a tomb. "She started bleeding a few hours ago," Mor said as she led them through the house. "But she's months away from giving birth," Nesta protested, following close on her heels. The scent of blood filled the room they entered. So much blood, all over the bed, smeared over Feyre's spread thighs. No babe--and Feyre's face ... It was white as death. Her eyes were closed, her breathing too shallow. Rhys crouched at her side, gripping her hand. Panic and terror and pain warred on his face. Madja, kneeling on the bed between Feyre's legs, blood up to her elbows, said without looking at them, "I turned the babe, but he's not descending. He's wedged in the birth canal." A small intake of breath from the corner of the room revealed Amren sitting there, her pale face drained of color. "She's losing too much blood, and I can feel the babe's heart in distress," Madja announced. "What do we do?" Mor asked as Cassian and Azriel went to stand behind Rhys, hands on his shoulders. "There is nothing we can do," Madja said. "Cutting the babe out of her will kill her." "Cutting it out?" Nesta demanded, earning a sharp glare from Rhys. Madja ignored her tone. "An incision along her abdomen, even one carefully made, is an enormous risk. It's never been successful. And even with Feyre's healing abilities, the blood loss has weakened her--" "Do it," Feyre managed to say, the words weighted with pain. "Feyre," Rhys objected. "The babe likely won't survive," Madja said, voice gentle but no- nonsense. "It's too small yet. We risk both of you." "All of you," Cassian breathed, eyes on Rhys. "Do it," Feyre said, and her voice was that of the High Lady. No fear. Only determination for the life of the babe within her. Feyre looked up at Rhys. "We have to." The High Lord nodded slowly, eyes lined with silver. A hand slid into Nesta's, and she found Elain there, shaking and wide- eyed. Nesta squeezed her sister's fingers. Together, they approached the other side of the bed. And when Elain began praying to the Fae's foreign gods, to their Mother, Nesta bowed her head, too. Feyre was dying. The babe was dying. And Rhys would die with them. But Cassian knew it wasn't fear of his own death that had his brother trembling. Cassian's hand tightened on Rhys's shoulder. Night-flecked power leaked from his High Lord, trying to heal Feyre, just as Madja's was, but the blood kept pouring out, faster than any power could stifle. How had it come to this? A bargain made through love between two mates would now end in three lives lost. Cassian's body drifted somewhere far away as Madja got off the bed, then returned with a set of knives and tools, blankets and towels. "Go into her mind to take the pain away," Madja said to Rhys, who blinked in confirmation, then cursed, as if scolding himself for not thinking of it sooner. Cassian looked across the bed, to where Elain was holding Feyre's other hand, and Nesta held Elain's. Rhys said to his mate, "Feyre darling--" "No good-byes," Feyre panted. "No good-byes, Rhys." Whatever Rhys did for the pain had her eyes closing. And Cassian's mind went wholly silent and blank as Madja pulled up Feyre's shift, her knives flashing. There was no sound when the tiny, winged babe emerged. When Mor stood there, blankets in hand, and took the unmoving boy from Madja's bloody hands. But Rhys was crying, and tears began pouring down Mor's face as she gazed at the silent babe in her arms. And then Madja swore, and Rhys-- Rhys began screaming. Cassian knew, as Rhys lunged for Feyre on the bed, what was about to happen. Yet no force in the world could stop it. The world slowed. Went cold. There was the silent, too-small babe in Mor's arms. There was Feyre, sliced open and bleeding out on the bed. There was Rhysand screaming, as if his soul were being shredded, but Cassian and Azriel were there, hauling him away from the bed as Madja tried to save Feyre-- But Death hovered nearby. Nesta felt it, saw it, a shadow thicker and more permanent than any of Azriel's. Elain sobbed, squeezing Feyre's hand, pleading with her to hold on, and Nesta stood in the midst of it, Death swirling around her, and there was nothing, nothing, nothing to be done as Feyre's breathing thinned, as Madja began shouting at her to fight it-- Feyre. Feyre, who had gone into the woods for them. Who had saved them so many times. Feyre. Her sister. Death lurked near Feyre and her mate, a beast waiting to pounce, to devour them both. Nesta pulled her hand free of Elain's. Stepped back. She closed her eyes, and opened that place in her soul that had torn free on Ramiel. Cassian could barely restrain Rhys, even with all seven Siphons blaring along with Azriel's. He should let Rhys go to her. If they were both about to die, he should let Rhys go to his mate. Be with her in these last seconds, last breaths-- Golden light flickered on the other side of the room, and Amren gasped. Cassian's heart curdled in horror. Nesta no longer hovered by the side of the bed. She now stood a few feet away. She wore the Mask. She'd placed the Crown atop her head. And she cradled the Harp in her arms. No one had ever wielded all three and lived. No one could contain their power, control them-- Nesta's eyes blazed with silver fire behind the Mask. And Cassian knew the being that looked out was neither Fae nor human nor anything that walked the lands of this world. She began moving toward the bed, and Rhys surged for her. Nesta held up a hand, and Rhys went still. As still as Cassian had gone under the Crown's control. Feyre's chest lifted, a death-rattle whispering from her white lips, and Cassian could do nothing but watch as Nesta's fingers, still bloody and filthy from the Rite, drifted to the final string of the Harp. The twenty-sixth string. And plucked it. <|title|>Chapter 77 <|startofchapter|>It was Time. The twenty-sixth string on the Harp was Time itself, and Nesta stopped it as Feyre took her last breath. Lanthys had said as much. That even Death bowed to the final string. That time was of no consequence to the Harp. The string made no sound as Nesta plucked it. Only robbed the world of it. And the death that Nesta felt around her sister, around Rhysand, around the babe in Mor's arms--she bade the Mask to halt that, too. Hold it at bay. In the beginning And in the end There was Darkness And nothing more A soft, familiar voice whispered the words. As they had been whispered to her long ago. As it had warned her in Oorid's darkness. A lovely, kind female voice, sage and warm, which had been waiting for her all this time. The room was a tableau of frozen movement, of shocked and horrified faces twisted toward her, toward Feyre and all that blood. Nesta walked through it. Past Rhys's screaming, straining body, his face the portrait of despair and terror and pain; past grave-faced Azriel; past Cassian, gritting his teeth as he held Rhys back. Past Amren, whose gray eyes were fixed on where Nesta had been, pure dread and something like awe in her face. Past Mor and that too-small bundle in her arms, Elain at her side, frozen in her crying. Nesta walked through it all, through Time. To her sister. Do you see how it might be? that soft female voice whispered, staring out through her eyes. What you might do? I feel nothing, Nesta said silently. Only the sight of Feyre on Death's threshold kept her from forgetting why she was here, what she needed to do. Is that not what you wanted? To feel nothing? I thought that was what I wanted. Nesta surveyed the people around her. Her sisters. Cassian, who had been willing to plunge a dagger into his heart rather than harm her. But no longer. When the female voice didn't press her, Nesta went on, I want to feel everything. I want to embrace it with my whole heart. Even the things that hurt and hunt you? Only curiosity laced the question. Nesta allowed herself a breath to ponder it, stilling her mind once more. We need those things in order to appreciate the good. Some days might be more difficult than others, but ... I want to experience all of it, live through all of it. With them. That wise, soft voice whispered, So live, Nesta Archeron. Nesta needed nothing more as she took her sister's limp hand and knelt upon the floor. Set down the Harp beside her, its silent note still reverberating, holding Time firm in its grasp. She didn't know what she could offer, beyond this. Stroking Feyre's cold hand, Nesta spoke into the timeless, frozen room, "You loved me when no one else would. You never stopped. Even when I didn't deserve it, you loved me, and fought for me, and ..." Nesta looked at Feyre's face, Death a breath away from claiming it. She didn't stop the tears that ran down her cheeks as she squeezed Feyre's slender hand tighter. "I love you, Feyre." She had never said the words aloud. To anyone. "I love you," Nesta whispered again. "I love you." And when the Harp's final string wavered, like a whisper of thunder on the air, Nesta covered Feyre's body with her own. Time would resume soon. She did not have much longer. She reached inward, toward the power that had made deathless monsters tremble and wicked kings fall to their knees, but ... she didn't know how to use it. Death flowed through her veins, yet she did not have the knowledge to master it. One wrong move, one mistake, and Feyre would be lost. So Nesta held her sister tightly, with Time halted around them, and she whispered, "If you show me how to save her, you can have it back." The world paused. Worlds beyond their own paused. Nesta buried her face in the cold sweat of Feyre's neck. She opened that place within herself, and said to the Mother, to the Cauldron, "I'll give back what I took from you. Just show me how to save them--her and Rhysand and the baby." Rhysand--her brother. That's what he was, wasn't he? Her brother, who had offered her kindness even when she knew he wanted to throttle her. And she him. And the baby ... her nephew. Blood of her blood. She would save him, save them, even if it took everything. "Show me," she pleaded. No one answered. The Harp stopped its echoing. As Time resumed, noise and movement roaring into the room, Nesta whispered to the Cauldron, her promise rising above the din, "I'll give it all back." And a soft, invisible hand brushed her cheek in answer. Cassian blinked, and Nesta had gone from one side of the room to the bed. Had plucked the Harp, and now lay half-atop Feyre, whispering. No silver fire burned in her eyes. Not a cold ember. No sign of the being who'd peered out through her stare, either. Rhys lunged against his hold, but Amren stepped to their side and hissed, "Listen." Nesta whispered, "I give it all back." Her shoulders heaved as she wept. Rhys began shaking his head, his power a palpable, rising wave that could destroy them all, destroy the world if it meant Feyre was no longer in it, even if he only had seconds to live beyond her, but Amren grabbed the nape of his neck. Her red nails dug into his golden skin. "Look at the light." Iridescent light began flowing from Nesta's body. Into Feyre. Nesta kept holding her sister. "I give it back. I give it back. I give it back." Even Rhys stopped fighting. No one moved. The light glimmered down Feyre's arms. Her legs. It suffused her ashen face. Began to fill the room. Cassian's Siphons guttered, as if sensing a power far beyond his own, beyond any of theirs. Tendrils of light drifted between the sisters. And one, delicate and loving, floated toward Mor. To the bundle in her arms, setting the silent babe within glowing bright as the sun. And Nesta kept whispering, "I give it back. I give it all back." The iridescence filled her, filled Feyre, filled the bundle in Mor's arms, lighting his friend's face so the shock on it was etched in stark relief. "I give it back," Nesta said, one more time, and Mask and Crown tumbled from her head. The light exploded, blinding and warm, a wind sweeping past them, as if gathering every shard of itself out of the room. And as it faded, dark ink splashed upon Nesta's back, visible through her half-shredded shirt, as if it were a wave crashing upon the shore. A bargain. With the Cauldron itself. Yet Cassian could have sworn a luminescent, gentle hand prevented the light from leaving her body altogether. Cassian didn't fight Rhys this time as he raced to the bed. To where Feyre lay, flush with color. No more blood spilling between her legs. Feyre opened her eyes. She blinked at Rhys, and then turned to Nesta. "I love you, too," Feyre whispered to her sister, and smiled. Nesta didn't stop her sob as she launched herself onto Feyre and embraced her. But the gesture was short-lived, hardly the length of a blink before a healthy wail went up from the other side of the room, and-- Mor stammered, weeping, and the babe she brought to the bed was not the small, still thing she'd been holding, but a full-term winged boy. His thick cap of dark hair lay plastered to his head as he mewled for his mother. Feyre began sobbing then, too, taking her son from Mor, hardly noticing Madja suddenly leaning between her legs, inspecting what was there--the healing. "If I didn't know better, I'd say you'd developed an Illyrian's anatomy," the healer muttered, but no one was listening. Not as Rhys put his arm around Feyre and together they peered at the boy--their son. Together, they wept, and laughed, and when Madja said, "Let him feed," Feyre obeyed, wonder in her eyes as she brought him to her breast, now swollen with milk. But Rhys watched in awe for all of a moment before he whirled to Nesta, who had slid off the bed and now stood beside the Mask. Behind her, the Crown and the Harp lay strewn on the floor. Cassian held his breath as the two of them surveyed each other. Then Rhys fell to his knees and took Nesta's hands in his, pressing his mouth to her fingers. "Thank you," he wept, head bowed. Cassian knew it wasn't in gratitude for Rhys's own life that he knelt upon the sacred tattoos inked upon his knees. Nesta dropped to the carpet. Lifted Rhys's face in her hands, studied what lay in it. Then she threw her arms around the High Lord of the Night Court and held him tightly. <|title|>Chapter 78 <|startofchapter|>Gwyn and Emerie were waiting in one of the parlors overlooking the river, healed but still in their torn, bloody clothes. Steam curled off the cups set on the low table before them. Emerie said thickly as Nesta stopped before their couch, "Two wraiths brought us some tea--" But Gwyn cut her off, face blazing as she hissed at Nesta, "I should never forgive you." Nesta just leaped onto the couch, hugging Gwyn tightly. She reached out an arm for Emerie, who joined their embrace. "We can talk forgiveness another day," Nesta said through her tears, settling between them. "You won the entire damn thing." "Thanks to you," Emerie said. "I got a crown of my own, don't worry," Nesta said, even as she knew Mor was now winnowing all three objects of the Trove back to the place Nesta had taken them from. She'd summoned them, working around Helion's spells. No spell could ever keep them from her--Briallyn had spoken true about that. "Who healed you?" Nesta pulled back to survey them. "How are you even here?" "The stone," Emerie explained, features soft with wonder. "It healed every wound on us the moment it brought us out of the Rite. We arrived here, of all places." "I think it knew where we were needed most," Gwyn said quietly, and Nesta smiled. Her smile faded, however, as she asked Emerie, "Will your family punish you for what happened to Bellius?" If they so much as thought about doing so, Nesta would pay them a little visit. With the Mask, the Harp, and the Crown. Which was why the Trove should be kept far away from her. Emerie shrugged a shoulder. "Deaths happen in the Rite. He fell in combat when one of his fellow warriors turned on him during the hike up Ramiel's slopes. That's as much as they need to know." Her eyes twinkled. Nesta had a feeling that the truth of what had occurred on that mountain would remain only with them--and the innermost circle of Feyre's court. Cassian had clearly been brought into the Rite against his will. Hopefully no one would ever challenge that fact. Gwyn laughed hoarsely. "The Illyrians are going to be furious about our winning, you know. Especially because I have no intention of being called Carynthian. I'm content with being a Valkyrie." "Oh, they'll be in hysterics for decades," Emerie agreed, grinning. Nesta grinned back, slinging her arms around her friends again and sinking into the deep cushions of the couch. "I can't wait to see it." And for the first time, with these two friends beside her, with her mate waiting for her ... it was true. Nesta couldn't wait to see the future that unfolded. All of it. E: The baby, whom Rhys and Feyre named Nyx, was as beautiful as anyone could ever dream a baby to be. Dark hair, with blue eyes that already glowed with his father's and mother's starlight, offsetting the light tan of his skin. And then there were the tiny wings, which Cassian had never realized were so delicate, so perfect, until he touched their velvet softness. The claws atop them would grow in much later, along with the ability to use the wings themselves, but ... He stared at the bundle in his arms, his heart full to bursting, and said to where Feyre and Rhys sat on the bed, neatly remade with clean linens, "You have no idea how much trouble this one is going to get into." Feyre chuckled. "Those pretty eyes will be to blame, I'm sure." Rhys, still rattled and pale, just smiled. The door opened, and then Nesta was there, still in her torn, bloody, stolen clothes. She'd held the babe already, and Cassian's chest had swelled, aching, to see her smiling down at Nyx. But now Nesta's eyes drifted to Cassian, and he saw the quiet request in them. He silently handed Nyx to Azriel, who winced at the transfer of this most delicate little creature to his scarred hands, and followed Nesta out the door, into the hall, and down the stairs. They didn't speak until they stood on the back lawn of the house, overlooking the river once again awakening in the spring sunshine. What she'd done, both during the Rite and after it ... She'd filled them all in briefly. He knew there was more. But perhaps some things would always remain a secret between her and her friends. Her sisters-in-arms. So Cassian asked, "Is your magic ... The power's really gone?" The brisk spring wind whipped her golden-brown hair across her face. "I gave it back to the Cauldron in exchange for the knowledge of how to save them." She swallowed. "But a little remains. I think something else-- someone else--stopped the Cauldron from taking all of it. And I made some changes of my own." The Mother. The only being who would see the sacrifice Nesta had made and give a little back. Perhaps it was she who had peered out at them through the Mask. "What did you change?" Nesta rested a hand on her abdomen. "I changed myself a little, too. So none of us will have to go through this again." For a heartbeat, Cassian had no words. "You ... You're ready for a baby?" Nesta barked a laugh. "No. Gods no. I'll be drinking my contraceptive tea for a while yet." She laughed again. "But I adjusted myself to match what the Cauldron did for Feyre. For when the time is right." He couldn't tear himself from the quiet joy lighting her face. So he offered her a soft smile. Yes--when the time was right, they would start that journey together. But what Nesta had done today, what she'd given ... "You could have ruled the world with your power," he said carefully. "I don't want to rule the world." Her eyes were unguarded in a way he had never seen. Mate, she had called him. "What do you want?" Cassian managed to ask, voice rasping. She smiled, and damn if it wasn't the loveliest thing he'd ever seen. "You." "You've had me from the moment you met me." She tucked a strand of hair behind an arched ear. "I know." He brushed a kiss over her mouth. But Nesta said, "I want a disgustingly ornate mating ceremony." He laughed, pulling away. "Really?" "Why not?" "Because I?ll never hear the end of it from Azriel and Mor." Or the Illyrians. Nesta considered. Then pulled something out of her pocket. A small biscuit, swiped from a tray in the birthing room. "Then here. Food. From me to you, my mate. That's the official ritual, isn't it? The sharing of food from one mate to the other?" He choked. "These are my two options? A frilly mating ceremony or a stale biscuit?" Her face filled with such true light, it nearly stole the breath from him. "Yes." So Cassian laughed again, and folded her fingers around the pathetic biscuit, leaning to whisper in her ear, "We'll make a coronation of it, Nes." "I already have a crown," she said. "I just want you." His jaw tightened. Yes, they'd have to figure out what to do with the entire Dread Trove now that they possessed all three objects. How Nesta had summoned it despite the spells Helion had placed on the other two ... He'd think of that another day. Along with the fact that she'd stopped Time with the Harp. And that she seemed to have some sort of connection--or understanding--with the Mother. The Mother. But Nesta smoothed his bunched brow, as if she could see those worries there. "Later," she promised. "We'll deal with all that later." Including the remaining queens, Koschei, and a still-looming war. "Later," he agreed, and she slid her arms around his neck. There were no more words after that. Only the two of them, standing on the riverbank under the sun, letting its warmth seep through their bones. Nesta pulled away, whispering, "I love you," and it was all Cassian needed before kissing her again, the force of it more powerful and enduring than the Cauldron itself. <|title|>Chapter 79 <|startofchapter|>Meeting Eris was the last thing Cassian wanted to do, but someone had to check in with the male. Two days after Nyx's birth, Cassian set off to do just that. Eris had been seen to a suite in the Hewn City, and from Keir's stormy expression upon Cassian's arrival, he had a feeling that Eris had told the steward very little. Eris was reading a book by the roaring fire, an ankle crossed over a knee, as if his presence here were nothing unusual. As if he hadn't been kidnapped, enchanted, and manipulated by a vengeful queen and a death- lord. Eris lifted his amber eyes as Cassian shut the door. "I can't stay long." "Good." Eris closed the book, watching Cassian drop into the seat opposite him. "I suppose you want to know what I told Briallyn." "Rhys already looked into your mind. Turns out, you didn't know much." He gave the male a slashing grin. Eris rolled his eyes. "So why am I here?" Cassian surveyed the male. Eris's clothes remained immaculate, but a muscle ticked on his jaw. "We wanted to know what you told Beron. Since you're sitting here, in one piece, I'm assuming he doesn't know about our involvement in your rescue." "Oh, he knows that you ... assisted me." Cassian straightened, wings shifting. Eris went on, "Always mix truth and lies, General. Didn't those warrior-brutes teach you about how to withstand an enemy's torture?" Cassian knew. He'd been tortured and interrogated and never once broken. "Beron tortured you?" Eris rose, tucking his book under an arm. "Who cares what my father does to me? He believed my story about the shadowsinger's spies informing him that a valuable asset had been kidnapped by Briallyn, and that you lot were disgusted to arrive and find it was me, rather than someone from the Summer or Winter Courts or whoever stoops to associate with you." Cassian unpacked each word. Beron had tortured his own son for information, rather than thanking the Mother for returning him. But Eris had held out. Fed Beron another lie. And then there was the way Eris had spoken about the other courts. Something had been off in his words, his tight expression. Was the male jealous? Cassian opened his mouth, more than ready to launch that question at him and bestow a stinging blow. Yet he hesitated. Looked into Eris's eyes. The male had been raised with every luxury and privilege--on paper. But who knew what terrors Beron had inflicted upon him? Cassian knew Beron had murdered Lucien's lover. If the High Lord of Autumn had been willing to do that, what wouldn't he do? "Get that pitying look off your face," Eris snarled softly. "I know what sort of creature my father is. I don't need your sympathy." Cassian again studied him. "Why did you leave Mor in the woods that day?" It was the question that would always remain. "Was it just to impress your father?" Eris barked a laugh, harsh and empty. "Why does it still matter to all of you so much?" "Because she's my sister, and I love her." "I didn't realize Illyrians were in the habit of fucking their sisters." Cassian growled. "It still matters," he ground out, "because it doesn't add up. You know what a monster your father is and want to usurp him; you act against him in the best interests of not only the Autumn Court but also of all of the faerie lands; you risk your life to ally with us ... and yet you left her in the woods. Is it guilt that motivates all of this? Because you left her to suffer and die?" Golden flame simmered in Eris's gaze. "I didn't realize I'd be facing another interrogation so soon." "Give me a damn answer." Eris crossed his arms, then winced. As if whatever injuries lay beneath his immaculate clothes ached. "You're not the person I want to explain myself to." "I doubt Mor will want to listen." "Maybe not." Eris shifted on his feet, and grimaced again. "But you and yours have more important things to think about than ancient history. My father is furious that his ally is dead, but he's not deterred. Koschei remains in play, and Beron might very well be stupid enough to establish an alliance with him, too. I hope that whatever Morrigan is doing in Vallahan will counteract the damage my father will unleash." Cassian had heard enough. He wanted to return home--to the House, to Nesta. His fierce, beautiful mate, who had saved his High Lord and Lady and their son. He'd never stop being in awe of her, and all she had done. How far she'd come. And one day, when the time was right ... They'd take the next steps. They'd walk down whatever road lay ahead of them together. So Cassian stalked for the door, for the life awaiting him in Velaris. Eris was still their ally. Was willing to be tortured to keep their secrets. And Cassian didn't need to be a courtier to know his next words would slice deep, but it would be a necessary wound. Perhaps it would be enough to push things in the right direction. "You know, Eris," he said, a hand wrapping around the doorknob. "I think you might be a decent male, deep down, trapped in a terrible situation." He looked over his shoulder and found Eris's gaze blazing again. But only pity stirred in his chest, pity for a male who had been born into riches, but had been destitute in every way that truly mattered. In every way that Cassian had been blessed--blessings that were now overflowing. So Cassian said, "I grew up surrounded by monsters. I've spent my existence fighting them. And I see you, Eris. You're not one of them. Not even close. I think you might even be a good male." Cassian opened the door, turning from Eris's curled lip. "You're just too much of a coward to act like one." <|title|>Chapter 80 <|startofchapter|>Spring bloomed fully around Velaris, and Feyre and Nyx were finally well enough to leave the house each day, going on walks that often lasted hours thanks to the well-wishers who longed to see the child. Someone always accompanied them, usually Rhys or Mor, who was just as protective as the parents of the babe. Cassian and Azriel were hardly better. But none of the others were present on a warm day a few weeks later, when Nesta joined Feyre and Elain for a walk outside the city. Even a glance at the sky revealed no sign of Cassian, who had been keeping Nesta up until dawn with his lovemaking and had become utterly obnoxious about calling her mate any chance he got, except at their continuing morning training with the priestesses. Succeeding in the Blood Rite didn't mean the training stopped. No, after she and her friends told Cassian and Azriel most of the details of their ordeal, the two commanders had compiled a long list of mistakes that the three of them had made that needed to be corrected, and the others wanted to learn from them, too. So they would keep training, until they were all well and truly Valkyries. Gwyn, despite the Rite, had returned to living in the library. Gwyn had said she might leave for Nesta and Cassian's mating ceremony in three days, which would take place in the small temple on the river house's grounds. Despite Nesta's wishes for an ornate ceremony, she hadn't wanted a giant crowd. The temple was already being bedecked with flowers of every variety, enchanted against wilting, as well as silks and lace and candles and garlands--all of it paid for by Rhys, who could not stop buying her presents. Dresses and jewels and throw pillows and all manner of nonsense had rained down on her until Nesta had to order him to stop, saying that an extravagant mating ceremony would make them even. So Rhys had ensured that the ceremony would be as outrageous as possible. Nesta had no doubt the temple would be covered in such riches it'd be laughable. But all that mattered, she realized, was the male who would be standing with her, first as they swore their vows, then as they offered each other food, and then as their friends and family bound their hands together with a length of black ribbon, to remain until the mating was consummated. Even though the consummating had been going on two or three times a day for weeks now. But it didn't matter. Nesta could hardly wait for it--the ceremony, the ... whatever awaited her beyond it. None of it frightened her. None of it left her with that pit of despair. Not with Cassian at her side, her friends at her back, the House of Wind ... That had been Rhys's last present before the ceremony: It was theirs. Hers. Since the House had decided it liked Nesta more than anyone else, Rhys had given it to her and Cassian, with the caveat that the library belonged to the priestesses and that the court still had use of the House for formal occasions. It was good enough for Nesta--better than good. She'd joined them at the river house one night to find a mating present from Feyre waiting for her. Hanging on the wall in the grand entry. A portrait of Nesta, holding the line at the Pass of Enalius. She'd let Rhys see some parts of the Rite--but had no idea he'd asked not out of curiosity, but to give his mate ideas for this. Nesta had stared and stared at her portrait, hung between one of Feyre and one of Elain, and hadn't realized she was crying until Feyre had held her tightly. A home. The House of Wind, Velaris, this court ... they were her home. The thought kindled a kernel of light in her chest that had not extinguished, even in the days after the Rite. That kernel was still flickering as Nesta faced that day's task. The task that was so long overdue. Feyre left the ornate black carriage at the base of the grassy hill, carrying Nyx as the three of them scaled its soft slope. The city spread before them, glowing in the spring sunshine, but Nesta's eyes remained on the lone stone atop the hill. Her heart thundered, and she kept a step back as Feyre knelt before the grave marker, showing Nyx to the stone. "Your grandson, Father," she whispered, voice thick. And then Feyre bowed her head, speaking too low for Nesta or Elain, standing at Nesta's side, to hear. After a few minutes, Feyre rose, letting her tears run, as holding the babe kept her hands occupied. Elain went forward, whispered a few things to their father's grave, and then both sisters looked to Nesta, smiling tentatively. Feyre had asked this morning if Nesta wanted to come. To show their father the baby. And there had been no answer in Nesta's heart except one. So she nodded to her sisters to go on ahead, and they obeyed, easing back down the grassy hill as Nesta lingered by the gravestone. She searched for the words, for any explanation or apology, but none came. The sun was a warm hand on her shoulder, like the one that had prevented the last of her power from vanishing, as if telling her that the apology, the begging for forgiveness ... it was no longer needed. Her father had died for her, with love in his heart, and though she might not have deserved it then ... She would do all she could now to earn it. To deserve not just his love, but that of those around her. Of Cassian. Some days might indeed be difficult, but she'd do it. Fight for it. Her father had died for her, with love in his heart, and Nesta held love in her own heart as she pulled the small, carved rose from her pocket and set it upon the gravestone. A permanent marker of the beauty and good he'd tried to bring into the world. Nesta brought her fingers to her lips, pressed a kiss to them, then laid her hand upon the gravestone. "Thank you," she said, blinking back the stinging in her eyes. "Thank you." A swift shadow passed overhead, followed by a whisper of wings, and Nesta didn't need to look to know who sailed high above, making sure all was Safe. That she was safe. Busybody. But she blew Cassian a soft kiss, too. Her mate. Her love. Her friend. The light within her chest brightened to a radiant sun. She found Feyre and Elain waiting halfway down the hill, Nyx now dozing peacefully in Elain's arms. Her sisters beamed, beckoning her to join. And Nesta smiled back, her steps light as she hurried down the hill to meet them. 