<|startofbook|><|title|>Lady Midnight <|title|>Prologue <|startofchapter|>Los Angeles, 2012 Shadow Market nights were Kit's favorite. They were the nights he was allowed to leave the house and help his father at the booth. He'd been coming to the Shadow Market since he was seven years old. Eight years later he still felt the same sense of shock and wonder when he walked down Kendall Alley through Old Town Pasadena toward a blank brick wall--and stepped through it into an explosive world of color and light. Only a few blocks away were Apple Stores selling gadgets and laptops, Cheesecake Factories and organic food markets, American Apparel shops and trendy boutiques. But here the alley opened out into a massive square, warded on each side to prevent the careless from wandering into the Shadow Market. The Los Angeles Shadow Market came out when the night was warm, and it both existed and didn't exist. Kit knew that when he stepped in among the lines of brightly decorated stalls, he was walking in a space that would vanish when the sun rose in the morning. But for the time he was there, he enjoyed it. It was one thing to have the Gift when no one else around you had it. The Gift was what his father called it, although Kit didn't think it was much of one. Hyacinth, the lavender-haired fortune-teller in the booth at the market's edge, called it the Sight. That name made more sense to Kit. After all, the only thing that separated him from ordinary kids was that he could see things they couldn't. Harmless things sometimes, pixies rising from dry grass along the cracked sidewalks, the pale faces of vampires in gas stations late at night, a man clicking his fingers against a diner counter; when Kit looked again, he saw the fingers were werewolf claws. It had been happening to him since he was a little kid, and his dad had it too. The Sight ran in families. Resisting the urge to react was the hardest. Walking home from school one afternoon he'd seen a pack of werewolves tearing each other apart in a deserted playground. He'd stood on the pavement and screamed until the police came, but there was nothing for them to see. After that his father kept him at home, mostly, letting him teach himself out of old books. He played video games in the basement and went out rarely, during the day, or when the Shadow Market was on. At the Market he didn't have to worry about reacting to anything. The Market was colorful and bizarre even to its inhabitants. There were ifrits holding performing djinn on leashes, and beautiful peri girls dancing in front of booths that sold glittering, dangerous powders. A banshee manned a stall that promised to tell you when you'd die, though Kit couldn't imagine why anyone would want to know that. A cluricaun offered to find lost things, and a young witch with short, bright-green hair sold enchanted bracelets and pendants to catch romantic attention. When Kit looked over at her, she smiled. "Hey, Romeo." Kit's father elbowed him in the ribs. "I didn't bring you here to flirt. Help put the sign up." He kicked their bent metal footstool over to Kit and handed him a slab of wood onto which he had burned his stall's name: johnny rook's. Not the most creative title, but Kit's father had never been overburdened with imagination. Which was strange. Kit thought as he clambered up to hang the sign, for someone whose clientele list included warlocks, werewolves, vampires, sprites, wights, ghouls, and once, a mermaid. (They'd met in secret at SeaWorld.) Still, maybe a simple sign was the best. Kit's dad sold some potions and powders--even, under the table, some questionably legal weaponry--but none of that was what brought people to his booth. The fact was that Johnny Rook was a guy who knew things. There was nothing that happened in L.A.'s Downworld that he wasn't aware of, no one so powerful that he didn't know a secret about them or a way to get in touch with them. He was a guy who had information, and if you had the money, he'd tell it to you. Kit jumped down off the footstool and his dad handed him two fifty-dollar bills. "Get change off someone," he said, not looking at Kit. He'd pulled his red ledger out from under the counter and was looking through it, probably trying to figure out who owed him money. "That's the smallest I've got." Kit nodded and ducked out of the booth, glad to get away. Any errand was an excuse to wander. He passed a stand laden with white flowers that gave off a dark, sweet, poisonous aroma, and another where a group of people in expensive suits were passing out pamphlets in front of a sign that said part SUPERNATURAL? YOU'RE NOT ALONE. THE FOLLOWERS OF THE GUARDIAN WANT YOU TO SIGN UP FOR THE LOTTERY OF FAVOR! LET LUCK INTO YOUR LIFE! A red-lipped, dark-haired woman tried to thrust a pamphlet into his hands. When Kit didn't take it, she cast a sultry glance past him, toward Johnny, who grinned. Kit rolled his eyes--there were a million little cults that sprang up around worshipping some minor demon or angel. Nothing ever seemed to come of them. Tracking down one of his favorite stands. Kit bought a cup of red-dyed shaved ice that tasted like passion fruit and raspberries and cream all mashed up together. He tried to be careful who he bought from--there were candies and drinks at the Market that could wreck your whole life-- but no one was going to take any risks with Johnny Rook's son. Johnny Rook knew something about everyone. Cross him and you were liable to find your secrets weren't secret anymore. Kit circled back around to the witch with the charmed jewelry. She didn't have a stall; she was, as usual, sitting on a printed sarong, the kind of cheap, bright cloth you could buy on Venice Beach. She looked up as he drew closer. "Hey, Wren," he said. He doubted it was her real name, but it was what everyone at the Market called her. "Hey, pretty boy." She moved aside to make room for him, her bracelets and anklets jingling. "What brings you to my humble abode?" He slid down beside her on the ground. His jeans were worn, holes in the knees. He wished he could keep the cash his father had given him to buy himself a few new clothes. "Dad needed me to break two fifties." "Shh." She waved a hand at him. "There are people here who'd cut your throat for two fifties and sell your blood as dragon fire." "Not me," Kit said confidently. "No one here would touch me." He leaned back. "Unless I wanted them to." "And here I thought I was all out of shameless flirting charms." "I am your shameless flirting charm." He smiled at two people walking by: a tall, good-looking boy with a streak of white in his dark hair and a brunette girl whose eyes were shaded by sunglasses. They ignored him. But Wren perked up at the sight of the two Market-goers behind them: a burly man and a woman with brown hair hanging in a rope down her back. "Protection charms?" Wren said winningly. "Guaranteed to keep you safe. I've got gold and brass too, not just silver." The woman bought a ring with a moonstone in it and moved on, chattering to her partner. "How'd you know they were werewolves?" Kit asked. "The look in her eye," said Wren. "Werewolves are impulse buyers. And their glances skip right over anything silver." She sighed. "I'm doing a bang- up business in protection charms since those murders started up." "What murders?" Wren made a face. "Some kind of crazy magic thing. Dead bodies turning up all covered in demon languages. Burned, drowned, hands chopped off--all sorts of rumors. How have you not heard about it? Don't you pay attention to gossip?" "No," Kit said. "Not really." He was watching the werewolf couple as they made their way toward the north end of the Market, where the lycanthropes tended to gather to buy whatever it was they needed--tableware made out of wood and iron, wolfsbane, tear-away pants (he hoped). Even though the Market was meant to be a place where Downworlders mingled, they tended to group together by type. There was the area where vampires gathered to buy flavored blood or seek out new subjugates from among those who'd lost their masters. There were the vine-and-flower pavilions where faeries drifted, trading charms and whispering fortunes. They kept back from the rest of the Market, forbidden to do business like the others. Warlocks, rare and feared, occupied stalls at the very end of the Market. Every warlock bore a mark proclaiming their demonic heritage: some had tails, some wings or curling horns. Kit had once glimpsed a warlock woman who had been entirely blue-skinned, like a fish. Then there were those with the Sight, like Kit and his father, ordinary folk gifted with the ability to see the Shadow World, to pierce through glamours. Wren was one of them: a self-taught witch who'd paid a warlock for a course of training in basic spells, but she kept a low profile. Humans weren't supposed to practice magic, but there was a thriving underground trade in teaching it. You could make good money, provided you weren't caught by the -- "Shadowhunters," Wren said. "How did you know I was thinking about them?" "Because they're right over there. Two of them." She jerked her chin to the right, her eyes bright with alarm. In fact the whole Market was tensing up, people moving to casually slide their bottles and boxes of poisons and potions and death's-head charms out of sight. Leashed djinn crept behind their masters. The peris had stopped dancing and were watching the Shadowhunters, their pretty faces gone cold and hard. There were two of them, a boy and a girl, probably seventeen or eighteen. The boy was red-haired, tall, and athletic-looking; Kit couldn't see the girl's face, just masses of blond hair, cascading to her waist. She wore a golden sword strapped across her back and walked with the kind of confidence you couldn't fake. They both wore gear, the tough black protective clothing that marked them out as Nephilim: part-human, part-angel, the uncontested rulers over every supernatural creature on earth. They had Institutes--like massive police stations--in nearly every big city on the planet, from Rio to Baghdad to Lahore to Los Angeles. Most Shadowhunters were born what they were, but they could make humans into Shadowhunters too if they felt like it. They'd been desperate to fill out their ranks since they'd lost so many lives in the Dark War. The word was they'd kidnap anyone under nineteen who showed any sign of being decent potential Shadowhunter material. Anyone, in other words, who had the Sight. "They're heading to your dad's booth," Wren whispered. She was right. Kit tensed as he saw them turn down the row of stalls and head unerringly toward the sign that read johnny rook's. "Get up." Wren was on her feet, shooing Kit into a standing position. She leaned down to fold up her merch inside the cloth they'd been sitting on. Kit noticed an odd drawing on the back of her hand, a symbol like lines of water running underneath a flame. Maybe she'd been doodling on herself. "I've got to go." "Because of the Shadowhunters?" he said in surprise, standing back to allow her to pack up. "Shh." She hurried away, her colorful hair bouncing. "Weird," Kit muttered, and headed back toward his dad's booth. He approached from the side, head down, hands in his pockets. He was pretty sure his dad would yell at him if he presented himself in front of the Shadowhunters--especially considering the rumors that they were press-ganging every mundane with the Sight under nineteen--but he couldn't help but want to eavesdrop. The blond girl was leaning forward, elbows on the wooden counter. "Good to see you. Rook," she said with a winning smile. She was pretty. Kit thought. Older than he was, and the boy she was with towered over him. And she was a Shadowhunter. So she was undateably pretty, but pretty nonetheless. Her arms were bare, and a long, pale scar ran from one elbow to her wrist. Black tattoos in the shapes of strange symbols twined up and down them, patterning her skin. One peeked from the V of her shirt. They were runes, the sorcerous Marks that gave the Shadowhunters their power. Only Shadowhunters could wear them. If you drew them on a normal person's skin, or a Downworlder's, they would go insane. "And who's this?" Johnny Rook asked, jerking his chin toward the Shadowhunter boy. "The famous parabatai" Kit looked at the pair with renewed interest. Everyone who knew about Nephilim knew what parabatai were. Two Shadowhunters who swore to be platonically loyal to each other forever, always to fight by each other's sides. To live and die for each other. Jace Herondale and Clary Fairchild, the most famous Shadowhunters in the world, each had a parabatai. Even Kit knew that much. "No," the girl drawled, picking up a jar of greenish liquid from a stack by the cash register. It was meant to be a love potion, though Kit knew that several of the jars held water that had been dyed with food coloring. "This isn't really Julian's kind of place." Her gaze flicked around the Market. "I'm Cameron Ashdown." The redheaded Shadowhunter stuck out a hand and Johnny, looking bemused, shook it. Kit took the opportunity to edge behind the counter. "I'm Emma's boyfriend." The blond girl--Emma--winced, barely perceptibly. Cameron Ashdown might be her boyfriend now. Kit thought, but he wouldn't lay bets on him staying that way. "Huh," said Johnny, taking the jar out of Emma's hand. "So I assume you're here to pick up what you left." He fished what looked like a scrap of red cloth out of his pocket. Kit stared. What could possibly be interesting about a square of cotton? Emma straightened up. She looked eager now. "Did you find out anything?" "If you dropped it in a washing machine with a load of whites, it would definitely turn your socks pink." Emma took the cloth back with a frown. "I'm serious. You don't know how many people I had to bribe to get this. It was in the Spiral Labyrinth. It's a piece of the shirt my mom was wearing when she was killed." Johnny held up a hand. "I know. I was just--" "Don't be sarcastic. My job is being sarcastic and quippy. Your job is getting shaken down for information." "Or paid," said Cameron Ashdown. "Being paid for information is also fine." "Look, I can't help you," said Kit's father. "There's no magic here. It's just some cotton. Shredded up and full of seawater, but--cotton." The look of disappointment that passed over the girl's face was vivid and unmistakable. She made no attempt to hide it, just tucked the cloth into her pocket. Kit couldn't help feeling a jolt of sympathy, which surprised him--he never thought he'd be sympathetic to a Shadowhunter. Emma looked over at him, almost as if he'd spoken. "So," she said, and suddenly there was a glint in her eyes. "You've got the Sight, huh, like your dad? How old are you?" Kit froze. His dad moved in front of him quickly, blocking him from Emma's view. "Now here I thought you were going to ask me about the murders that have been happening. Behind on your information, Carstairs?" Apparently Wren had been right, Kit thought--everyone did know about these murders. He could tell by the warning note in his father's voice that he should make himself scarce, but he was trapped behind the counter with no escape route. "I heard some rumors about dead mundanes," Emma said. Most Shadowhunters used the term for normal human beings with intense contempt. Emma just sounded tired. "We don't investigate mundanes killing each other. That's for the police." "There were dead faeries," said Johnny. "Several of the bodies were fey." "We can't investigate those," said Cameron. "You know that. The Cold Peace forbids it." Kit heard a faint murmur from nearby booths: a noise that let him know he wasn't the only one eavesdropping. The Cold Peace was Shadowhunter Law. It had come into being almost five years ago. He barely remembered a time before it. They called it a Law, at least. What it really was, was a punishment. When Kit was ten years old, a war had rocked the universe of Downworlders and Shadowhunters. A Shadowhunter, Sebastian Morgenstern, had turned against his own kind: He had gone from Institute to Institute, destroying their occupants, controlling their bodies, and forcing them to fight for him as an unspeakable army of mind- controlled slaves. Most of the Shadowhunters in the Los Angeles Institute had been taken or killed. Kit had had nightmares about it sometimes, of blood running through hallways he'd never seen, hallways painted with the runes of the Nephilim. Sebastian had been helped by the Fair Folk in his attempt to destroy the Shadowhunters. Kit had learned about fairies in school: cute little creatures that lived in trees and wore flower hats. The Fair Folk were nothing like that. They ranged from mermaids and goblins and shark-toothed kelpies to gentry faeries, those who held high rank in the faerie courts. Gentry faeries were tall and beautiful and terrifying. They were split into two Courts: the Seelie Court, a dangerous place ruled by a Queen no one had seen in years, and the Unseelie Court, a dark place of treachery and black magic whose King was like a monster out of legend. Since the faeries were Downworlders, and had sworn allegiance and loyalty to the Shadowhunters, their betrayal was an unforgivable crime. The Shadowhunters had punished them viciously in a sweeping gesture that had come to be known as the Cold Peace: forcing them to pay huge sums to rebuild the Shadowhunter buildings that had been destroyed, stripping them of their armies, and instructing other Downworlders never to give them aid. The punishment for helping a faerie was severe. Faeries were a proud, ancient, magical people, or so it was said. Kit had never known them as anything but broken. Most Downworlders and other denizens of the shadowy space between the mundane world and the Shadowhunter one didn't dislike faeries or hold much of a grudge against them. But none of them were willing to go against the Shadowhunters, either. Vampires, werewolves, and warlocks stayed away from faeries except in places like the Shadow Market, where money was more important than Laws. "Really?" said Johnny. "What if I told you that the bodies have been found covered in writing?" Emma's head jerked up. Her eyes were dark brown, almost black, surprising against her pale hair. "What did you say?" "You heard me." "What kind of writing? Is it the same language that was on my parents' bodies?" "Don't know," said Johnny. "Just what I heard. Still, seems suspicious, doesn't it?" "Emma," said Cameron warningly. "The Clave won't like it." The Clave was the Shadowhunter government. In Kit's experience, they didn't like anything. "I don't care," Emma said. She'd clearly forgotten about Kit completely; she was staring at his dad, her eyes burning. "Tell me what there is to know. I'll give you two hundred." "Fine, but I don't know that much," said Johnny. "Someone gets grabbed, a few nights later they turn up dead." "And the last time someone 'got grabbed'?" said Cameron. "Two nights ago," said Johnny, clearly feeling he was earning his payoff. "Body will probably be dumped tomorrow night. All you have to do is show up and catch the dumper." "So why don't you tell us how to do that?" Emma said. "Word on the street is that the next body dump will be in West Hollywood. The Sepulchre Bar." Emma clapped her hands in excitement. Her boyfriend said her name again, warningly, but Kit could have told him he was wasting his time. He'd never seen a teenage girl this excited about anything--not famous actors, not boy bands, not jewelry. This girl was practically vibrating to pieces over the idea of a dead body. "Why don't you do it, if you're so worked up about these murders?" Cameron demanded of Johnny. He had nice eyes. Kit thought. They were a ridiculously attractive couple. It was almost annoying. He wondered what the fabled Julian looked like. If he was sworn to be this girl's platonic best friend for eternity, he probably looked like the back of a bus. "Because I don't want to," said Johnny. "Seems dangerous. But you guys love danger. Don't you, Emma?" Emma grinned. It occurred to Kit that Johnny seemed to know Emma pretty well. Clearly she'd come around before asking questions--it was weird that this was the first time he'd seen her, but he didn't come to every Market. As she dug into her pocket now, took out a roll of bills, and handed it over to his father, he wondered if she'd ever been in his house. Whenever clients came to their home, Kit's dad made him head down to the basement and stay there, not making a sound. "The kind of people I deal with aren't the kind of people you should meet" was all he said. Once Kit had wandered upstairs by accident while his father was meeting with a group of robed and hooded monsters. At least Kit thought they looked like monsters: their eyes and lips were sewn shut, their heads bald and gleaming. His father had told him they were Gregori, Silent Brothers-- Shadowhunters who had been scarred and magically tortured until they became something more than human; they spoke with their minds, and could read other people's. Kit had never come upstairs again while his father was having a "meeting." Kit knew his dad was a criminal. He knew he sold secrets for a living, though not lies: Johnny prided himself on having good information. Kit knew his own life would probably follow the same pattern. It was hard to live normally when you were constantly pretending you didn't see what was going on in front of your face. "Well, thanks for the info," Emma said, starting to turn away from the booth. The gold hilt of her sword gleamed in the light from the Market's illuminated stalls. Kit wondered what it would be like to be Nephilim. To live among people who saw the same things you did. To not ever be afraid of what lurked in the shadows. "See you around, Johnny." She dropped a wink--at Kit. Johnny whirled around to look at him as she disappeared back into the crowd with her boyfriend. "Did you say something to her?" Johnny demanded. "Why'd she zero in on you like that?" Kit held his hands up defensively. "I didn't say anything," he protested. "I think she noticed me listening." Johnny sighed. "Try to get noticed less." The Market was starting up again now that the Shadowhunters had left. Kit could hear music and a rising bubble of chattering voices. "How well do you know that Shadowhunter girl?" "Emma Carstairs? She's been coming to me for stuff for years. Doesn't seem to care that she's breaking Nephilim rules. I like her, as much as you can like any of them." "She wanted you to find out who killed her parents." Johnny yanked a drawer open. "I don't know who killed her parents. Kit. Probably faeries. It was during the Dark War." He looked self-righteous. "So I wanted to help her out. So what? Shadowhunter money spends." "And you want the Shadowhunters paying attention to something that isn't you," said Kit. It was a guess, but, he suspected, a good one. "Have you got something going on?" Johnny slammed the drawer shut. "Maybe." "For someone who sells secrets, you sure keep a lot of them," said Kit, jamming his hands into his pockets. His father put an arm around him, a rare affectionate gesture. "My biggest secret," he said, "is you." <|title|>Chapter 1: A Sepulchre in This Kingdom <|startofchapter|>"It's just not working out," Emma said. "This relationship, I mean." Disconsolate noises came from the other end of the phone. Emma was barely able to decipher them--the reception wasn't particularly good on the roof of the Sepulchre Bar. She paced along the edge of the roofline, peering down into the central courtyard. Jacaranda trees were strung with electric lights, and sleek ultramodern tables and chairs were scattered around the garden space. Equally sleek and ultramodern young men and women thronged the place, glasses of wine glimmering in their hands like clear bubbles of red and white and pink. Someone had rented out the place for a private party: A sequined birthday banner hung between two trees, and waiters made their way through the crowd carrying pewter chargers of snacks. There was something about the glamorous scene that made Emma want to break it up by kicking down some of the roof tiles or doing a front flip into the crowd. The Clave would lock you up for a good long time for that kind of behavior, though. Mundanes weren't supposed to ever glimpse Shadowhunters. Even if Emma did jump down into the courtyard, none of the partygoers would see her. She was covered in glamour runes, applied by Cristina, that rendered her invisible to anyone without the Sight. Emma sighed and put the phone back to her ear. "All right, our relationship," she said. "Our relationship isn't working out." "Emma," Cristina hissed loudly behind her. Emma turned, her boots balanced at the edge of the roof. Cristina was sitting on the shingled slope behind her, polishing a throwing knife with a pale blue cloth. The cloth matched the bands that held her dark hair back from her face. Everything about Cristina was neat and put together--she managed to look as professional in her black fighting gear as most people would look in a power suit. Her golden good-luck medallion glimmered at the hollow of her throat and her family ring, twined with a pattern of roses for Rosales, shone on her hand as she placed the knife, wrapped in its cloth, beside her. "Emma, remember. Use your statements." Cameron was still wittering away on the other end of the phone, something about getting together to talk, which Emma knew would be pointless. She focused on the scene below her--was that a shadow slipping through the crowd below, or was she imagining it? Maybe it was wishful thinking. Johnny Rook was usually reliable, and he'd seemed very sure about tonight, but Emma hated getting all geared up and full of anticipation only to discover there was going to be no fight to work off her energy. "This is about me, not you," she said into the phone. Cristina gave her an encouraging thumbs-up. "I am sick of you." She smiled brightly as Cristina dropped her face into her hands. "So maybe we could go back to being friends?" There was a click as Cameron hung up. Emma tucked the phone into her belt and scanned the crowd again. Nothing. Annoyed, she scrambled up the slope of the roof to flop down beside Cristina. "Well, that could have gone better," she said. "Do you think so?" Cristina took her hands away from her face. "What happened?" "I don't know." Emma sighed and reached for her stele, the delicate adamas writing instrument Shadowhunters used to ink protection runes onto their skin. It had a carved handle made of demon bone and had been a gift from Jace Herondale, Emma's first crush. Most Shadowhunters went through steles like mundanes went through pencils, but this one was special to Emma and she kept it as carefully intact as she kept her sword. "It always happens. Everything was fine, and then I woke up one morning and just the sound of his voice made me feel sick to my stomach." She looked at Cristina guiltily. "I tried," she added. "I waited weeks! I kept hoping it would get better. But it didn't." Cristina patted her arm. "I know, cuata," she said. "You just aren't very good at having ..." "Tact?" Emma suggested. Cristina's English was nearly accentless, and Emma often forgot it wasn't her first language. On the other hand Cristina spoke seven languages on top of her native Spanish. Emma spoke English and some scraps of Spanish, Greek, and Latin, could read three demon languages, and swear in five. "I was going to say relationships," Cristina said. Her dark brown eyes twinkled. "I've only been here for two months and you've forgotten three dates with Cameron, skipped his birthday, and now you've dumped him because it was a slow patrol night." "He always wanted to play video games," said Emma. "I hate video games." "No one is perfect, Emma." "But some people are perfect for each other. Don't you think that has to be true?" A strange look flashed over Cristina's face, gone so quickly Emma was sure she'd imagined it. Sometimes Emma was reminded that however much she felt close to Cristina, she didn't know her--didn't know her the way she did Jules, the way you knew someone whose every moment you had shared since you were children. What had happened to Cristina in Mexico--whatever had sent her running to Los Angeles and away from her family and friends--was something she'd never spoken of to Emma. "Well," said Cristina, "at least you were wise enough to bring me along for moral support to help you through this difficult time." Emma poked Cristina with her stele. "I wasn't planning on dumping Cameron. We were here, and he called, and his face came up on my phone-- well, actually a llama came up on my phone because I didn't have a picture of him so I just used a llama--and the llama made me so angry I just couldn't help myself." "Bad time to be a llama." "Is it ever a good time, really?" Emma flipped the stele around and started to ink a Sure-Footedness rune onto her arm. She prided herself on having excellent balance without runes, but up on a roof it was probably a good idea to be safe. She thought of Julian, far away in England, with a sting at her heart. He would have been pleased she was being careful. He would have said something funny and loving and self-deprecating about it. She missed him horribly, but she supposed that was how it was when you were parabatai, bound together by magic as well as friendship. She missed all the Blackthorns. She had grown up playing among Julian and his sisters and brothers, lived with them since she was twelve--when she had lost her parents, and Julian, whose mother had already died, had lost his father. From being an only child she had been thrust into a big, loud, noisy, loving family. Not every part of it had been easy, but she adored them, from shy Drusilla to Tiberius, who loved detective stories. They had left at the beginning of the summer to visit their great-aunt in Sussex--the Blackthorn family was originally British. Marjorie, Julian had explained, was nearly a hundred years old and might die at any moment; they had visited her. It was a moral requirement. Off they'd gone for two months, all of them except their uncle, the head of the Institute. The shock to Emma's system had been severe. The Institute had gone from noisy to quiet. Worst of all, when Julian was gone, she felt W, like a constant unease, a low-level pain in her chest. Dating Cameron had not helped, but Cristina's arrival had helped immeasurably. It was common for Shadowhunters who reached the age of eighteen to visit foreign Institutes and learn their different customs. Cristina had come to Los Angeles from Mexico City--there was nothing unusual about it, but she'd always had the air of someone running from something. Emma, meanwhile, had been running from loneliness. She and Emma had run directly into each other, and become best friends faster than Emma could have believed possible. "Diana will be pleased about you dumping Cameron, at least," said Cristina. "I don't think she liked him." Diana Wrayburn was the Blackthorn family's tutor. She was extremely smart, extremely stern, and extremely tired of Emma falling asleep in the middle of class because she'd been out the night before. "Diana just thinks all relationships are a distraction from studying," Emma said. "Why date when you can learn an extra demonic language? I mean, who wouldn't want to know how to say 'Come here often?' in Purgatic?" Cristina laughed. "You sound like Jaime. He hated studying." Emma perked her ears: Cristina rarely spoke of the friends or family in Mexico City she'd left behind. She knew Cristina's uncle had run the Mexico City Institute until he'd been killed in the Dark War and her mother had taken it over. She knew Cristina's father had died when she was a child. But not much else. "But not Diego. He loved it. He did extra work for fun." "Diego? The perfect guy? The one your mom loves?" Emma began to trace the stele over her skin, the Farsighted rune taking shape on her forearm. The sleeves of her gear were elbow length, the skin below it marked all over with the pale white scars of runes long ago used up. Cristina reached over and took the stele from Emma. "Here. Let me do that." She continued the Farsighted rune. Cristina had a gorgeous hand with runes, careful and precise. "I don't want to talk about Perfect Diego," Cristina said. "My mother talks about him enough. Can I ask you about something else?" Emma nodded. The pressure of the stele against her skin was familiar, almost pleasant. "I know you wanted to come here because Johnny Rook told you that there have been bodies found with writing on them, and he thinks one will turn up here tonight." "Correct." "And you are hoping the writing will be the same as it was on your parents' bodies." Emma tensed. She couldn't help it. Any mention of her parents' murders hurt as if it had happened yesterday. Even when the person asking her about it was as gentle as Cristina. "Yes." "The Clave says Sebastian Morgenstern murdered your parents," said Cristina. "That is what Diana told me. That's what they believe. But you don't believe it." The Clave. Emma looked out into the Los Angeles night, at the brilliant explosion of electricity that was the skyline, at the rows and rows of billboards that lined Sunset Boulevard. It had been a harmless word, "Clave," when she had first learned it. The Clave was simply the government of the Nephilim, made up of all active Shadowhunters over the age of eighteen. In theory every Shadowhunter had a vote and an equal voice. In point of fact, some Shadowhunters were more influential than others: Like any political party, the Clave had its corruption and prejudices. For Nephilim this meant a strict code of honor and rules that every Shadowhunter had to adhere to or face dire consequences. The Clave had a motto: The Law is hard, but it is the Law. Every Shadowhunter knew what it meant. The rules of the Law of the Clave had to be obeyed, no matter how hard or painful. The Law overrode everything else --personal need, grief, loss, unfairness, treachery. When the Clave had told Emma that she was to accept the fact that her parents had been murdered as part of the Dark War, she had been required to do so. She hadn't. "No," Emma said slowly. "I don't think so." Cristina sat with the stele motionless in her hand, the rune unfinished. The adamas gleamed in the moonlight. "Could you tell me why?" "Sebastian Morgenstern was building an army," Emma said, still looking out at the sea of lights. "He took Shadowhunters and turned them into monsters that served him. He didn't mark them up with demon languages written on their bodies and then dump them in the ocean. When the Nephilim tried to move my parents' bodies, they dissolved. That didn't happen to any of Sebastian's victims." She moved her finger along a roof tile. "And--it's a feeling. Not a passing feeling. Something I've always believed. I believe it more every day. I believe my parents' deaths were different. And that laying them at Sebastian's door means--'' She broke off with a sigh. "I'm sorry. I'm just rambling. Look, this is probably going to be nothing. You shouldn't worry about it." "I worry about you," Cristina said, but she laid the stele back against Emma's skin and finished the rune without another word. It was something that Emma had liked about Cristina since the moment she'd met her--she never pressed or pressured. Emma glanced down in appreciation as Cristina sat back, done with her work. The Farsighted rune gleamed clear and clean on Emma's arm. "The only person I know who draws better runes than you do is Julian," she said. "But he's an artist--" "Julian, Julian, Julian," echoed Cristina in a teasing voice. "Julian is a painter, Julian is a genius, Julian would know how to fix this, Julian could build that. You know, for the past seven weeks I've heard so many wonderful things about Julian I'm starting to worry that when I meet him I will fall in love with him instantly." Emma brushed her gritty hands carefully down her legs. She felt tight and itchy and tense. All wound up for a battle and no fighting, she told herself. No wonder she wanted to jump out of her skin. "I don't think he's your type," she said. "But he's my parabatai, so I'm not objective." Cristina handed Emma's stele back to her. "I always wanted a parabatai," she said a little wistfully. "Someone who is sworn to protect you and to watch your back. A best friend forever, for your whole life." A best friend forever, for your whole life. When Emma's parents had died, she'd fought to stay with the Blackthorns. Partly because she'd lost everything familiar to her and she couldn't bear the thought of starting over, and partly because she'd wanted to stay in Los Angeles so that she could investigate her parents' deaths. It might have been awkward; she might have felt, the only Carstairs in a house of Blackthorns, out of place in the family. But she never had, because of Jules. Parabatai was more than friendship, more than family; it was a bond that tied you together, fiercely, in a way that every Shadowhunter respected and acknowledged the way that they respected the bond between husband and wife. No one would separate parabatai. No one would dare try: Parabatai were stronger together. They fought together as if they could read each other's minds. A single rune given to you by your parabatai was more powerful than ten runes given to you by someone else. Often parabatai had their ashes buried in the same tomb so that they wouldn't be parted, even in death. Not everyone had a parabatai in fact, they were rare. It was a lifelong, binding commitment. You were swearing to stay by the other person's side, swearing to always protect them, to go where they went, to consider their family your family. The words of the oath were from the Bible, and ancient: Whither thou goest, I will go; thy people shall be my people; where thou diest, will I die, and there will I be buried. If there was a term for it in mundane English, Emma thought, it would have been "soul mate." Platonic soul mate. You weren't allowed to be romantically involved with your parabatai. Like so many things, it was against the Law. Emma had never known why--it didn't make any sense-- but then, much of the Law didn't. It hadn't made sense for the Clave to exile and abandon Julian's half siblings, Helen and Mark, simply because their mother had been a faerie, but they'd done that too when they'd created the Cold Peace. Emma stood up, sliding her stele into her weapons belt. "Well, the Blackthorns are coming back the day after tomorrow. You'll meet Jules then." She moved back toward the edge of the roof, and this time she heard the scrape of boots on tile that told her Cristina was behind her. "Do you see anything?" "Maybe there's nothing going on." Cristina shrugged. "Maybe it's just a party." "Johnny Rook was so sure," muttered Emma. "Didn't Diana specifically forbid you to go see him?" "She may have told me to stop seeing him," Emma acknowledged. "She may even have called him 'a criminal who commits crime,' which I have to say struck me as harsh, but she didn't say I couldn't go to the Shadow Market." "Because everyone already knows Shadowhunters aren't meant to go to the Shadow Market." Emma ignored this. "And if I ran into Rook, say, at the Market, and he dropped some information while we were chatting and I accidentally let drop some money, who's to call that 'paying for information'? Just two friends, one careless with his gossip and the other one careless with her finances . . ." "That's not the spirit of the Law, Emma. Remember? The Law is hard, but it is the Law." "I thought it was 'the Law is annoying, but it is also flexible.'" "That is not the motto. And Diana is going to kill you." "Not if we solve the murders, she won't. The ends will justify the means. And if nothing happens, she never has to know about it. Right?" Cristina didn't say anything. "Right. . . ?" Emma said. Cristina gave an intake of breath. "Do you see?" she asked, pointing. Emma saw. She saw a tall man, handsome and smooth-haired, with pale skin and carefully tailored clothes, moving among the crowd. As he went, men and women turned to look after him, their faces slack and fascinated. "There is a glamour on him," Cristina said. Emma quirked an eyebrow. Glamour was illusion magic, commonly used by Downworlders to hide themselves from mundane eyes. Shadowhunters also had access to Marks that had much the same effect, though Nephilim didn't consider that magic. Magic was warlock business; runes were a gift from the Angel. "The question is, vampire or fey?" Emma hesitated. The man was approaching a young woman in towering heels, a glass of champagne in her hand. Her face went smooth and blank as he spoke to her. She nodded agreeably, reached up, and undid the chunky gold necklace she was wearing. She dropped it into his outstretched hand, a smile on her face as he slid it into his pocket. "Fey," Emma said, reaching for her weapons belt. Faeries complicated everything. According to the Law of the Cold Peace, an underage Shadowhunter shouldn't have anything to do with faeries at all. Faeries were off-limits, the cursed and forbidden branch of Downworlders, ever since the Cold Peace, which had ripped away their rights, their armies, and their possessions. Their ancient lands were no longer considered theirs, and other Downworlders fought over who could claim them. Trying to calm such battles was a great part of the business of the Los Angeles Institute, but it was adult business. Shadowhunters Emma's age weren't meant to engage directly with faeries. In theory. The Law is annoying, but it is flexible. Emma drew a small cloth bag, tied at the top, out of a pouch attached to her belt. She began to flick it open as the fey moved from the smiling woman to a slender man in a black jacket, who willingly handed over his sparkling cuff links. The fey was now standing almost directly beneath Emma and Cristina. "Vampires don't care about gold, but the Fair Folk pay tribute to their King and Queen in gold and gems and other treasure." "I have heard the Court of the Unseelie pays it in blood," said Cristina grimly. "Not tonight," Emma said, flicking the bag she was holding open and upending the contents onto the faerie's head. Cristina gasped in horror as the fey below them gave a hoarse cry, his glamour falling away from him like a snake shedding its skin. A chorus of shrieks went up from the crowd as the fey's true appearance was revealed. Branches grew like twisted horns from his head, and his skin was the dark green of moss or mildew, cracked all over like bark. His hands were spatulate claws, three-fingered. "Emma," Cristina warned. "We should stop this now--call the Silent Brothers--" But Emma had already jumped. For a moment she was weightless, falling through the air. Then she struck the ground, knees bent as she'd been taught. How she remembered those first jumps from great heights, the snapping, awkward falls, the days she'd have to wait to heal before trying again. No longer. Emma rose to her feet, facing the faerie across the fleeing crowd. Gleaming from his weathered, barklike face, his eyes were yellow as a cat's. "Shadowhunter," he hissed. The partygoers continued to flee from the courtyard through the gates that led into the parking lot. None of them saw Emma, though their instincts kicked in anyway, making them pass around her like water around the pilings of a bridge. Emma reached back over her shoulder and closed her hand around the hilt of her sword, Cortana. The blade made a golden blur in the air as she drew it and pointed the tip at the fey. "No," she said. "I'm a candygram. This is my costume." The faerie looked puzzled. Emma sighed. "It's so hard to be sassy to the Fair Folk. You people never get jokes." "We are well known for our jests, japes, and ballads," the faerie said, clearly offended. "Some of our ballads last for weeks." "I don't have that kind of time," Emma said. "I'm a Shadowhunter. Quip fast, die young." She wiggled Cortana's tip impatiently. "Now turn out your pockets." "I have done nothing to break the Cold Peace," said the fey. "Technically true, but we do frown on stealing from mundanes," Emma said. "Turn out your pockets or I'll rip off one of your horns and shove it where the sun doesn't shine." The fey looked puzzled. "Where does the sun not shine? Is this a riddle?" Emma gave a martyred sigh and raised Cortana. "Turn them out, or I'll start peeling your bark off. My boyfriend and I just broke up, and I'm not in the best mood." The faerie began slowly to empty his pockets onto the ground, glaring at her all the while. "So you're single," he said. "I never would have guessed." A gasp sounded from above. "Now that is simply rude," said Cristina, leaning over the edge of the roof. "Thank you, Cristina," Emma said. "That was a low blow. And for your information, faerie guy, I broke up with him." The faerie shrugged. It was a remarkably expressive shrug, managing to convey several different kinds of not caring at once. "Although I don't know why," Cristina said. "He was very nice." Emma rolled her eyes. The faerie was still dumping his loot--earrings, expensive leather wallets, diamond rings tumbled to the ground in a sparkling cacophony. Emma braced herself. She didn't really care about the jewelry or the stealing. She was looking for weapons, spell books, any sign of the kind of dark magic she associated with the markings on her parents. "The Ashdowns and the Carstairs don't get along," she said. "It's a well-known fact." At that the faerie seemed to freeze in place. "Carstairs," he spat, his yellow eyes fixed on Emma. "You are Emma Carstairs?" Emma blinked, thrown. She glanced up; Cristina had disappeared from the edge of the roof. "I really don't think we've met. I'd remember a talking tree." "Would you?" Spatulate hands twitched at the faerie's side. "I would have expected more courteous treatment. Or have you and your Institute friends forgotten Mark Blackthorn so quickly?" "Mark?" Emma froze, unable to control her reaction. In that moment, something glittering hurtled toward her face. The fey had whipped a diamond necklace at her. She ducked, but the edge of the chain caught her cheek. She felt a stinging pain and the warmth of blood. She bolted upright, but the fey was gone. She swore, wiping at the blood on her face. "Emma!" It was Cristina, who had made it down from the roof and was standing by a barred door in the wall. An emergency exit. "He went through here!" Emma dashed toward her and together they kicked open the door and burst out into the alley behind the bar. It was surprisingly dark; someone had smashed the nearby streetlights. Dumpsters shoved against the wall reeked of spoiled food and alcohol. Emma felt her Farsighted rune burn; at the very end of the alley, she saw the slight form of the fey spring toward the left. She set off after him, Cristina by her side. She had spent so much of her life running with Julian that she had some difficulty adjusting her stride to someone else's; she pushed ahead, running flat out. Faeries were fast, notoriously so. She and Cristina rounded the next corner, where the alley narrowed. The fleeing fey had shoved two Dumpsters together to block their path. Emma flung herself up and over, using the Dumpsters to vault forward, her boots clanging against the metal. She fell forward and landed on something soft. Fabric scratched under her fingernails. Clothes. Clothes on a human body. Wet clothes. The stench of seawater and rot was everywhere. She looked down into a dead and bloated face. Emma bit down on a yell. A moment later there was another clang and Cristina dropped down beside her. Emma heard her friend breathe an astonished exclamation in Spanish. Then Cristina's arms were around her, pulling her away from the body. She landed on the asphalt, awkwardly, unable to stop staring. The body was undeniably human. A middle-aged man, round- shouldered, his silvery hair worn like the mane of a lion. Patches of his skin were burned, black and red, bubbles rising where the burns were worst, like lather on a bar of soap. His gray shirt was torn open, and across his chest and arms marched lines of black runes, not the runes of Shadowhunters, but a twisted demon script. They were runes Emma knew as well as she knew the scars on her own hands. She had stared obsessively at photographs of those marks for five years. They were the marks the Clave had found on the bodies of her own murdered parents. "Are you all right?" Cristina asked. Emma was leaning back against the brick wall of the alley--which smelled very questionable and was covered in spray paint--and glaring laser beams at the dead body of the mundane and the Silent Brothers surrounding it. The first thing Emma had done as soon as she'd been able to think clearly was summon the Brothers and Diana. Now she was second-guessing that decision. The Silent Brothers had arrived instantly and were all over the body, sometimes turning to speak to each other in their soundless voices as they searched and examined and took notes. They had put up warding runes to give themselves time to work before the mundane police arrived, but-- politely, firmly, requiring only a slight use of telepathic force--they prevented Emma from coming anywhere near the body. "I'm furious," Emma said. "I have to see those markings. I have to take photos of them. It's my parents that were killed. Not that the Silent Brothers care. I only ever knew one decent Silent Brother and he quit being one." Cristina's eyes widened. Somehow she had managed to keep her gear clean through all of this, and she looked fresh and pink-cheeked. Emma imagined she herself, with her hair sticking out in every direction and alley dirt smeared on her clothes, looked like an eldritch horror. "I didn't think it was something you could just stop doing." The Silent Brothers were Shadowhunters who had chosen to retreat from the world, like monks, and devote themselves to study and healing. They occupied the Silent City, the vast underground caverns where most Shadowhunters were buried when they died. Their terrible scars were the result of runes too strong for most human flesh, even that of Shadowhunters, but it was also the runes that made them nearly immortal. They served as advisers, archivists, and healers--and they could also wield the power of the Mortal Sword. They were the ones who had performed Emma and Julian's parabatai ceremony. They were there for weddings, there when Nephilim children were born, and there when they died. Every important event of a Shadowhunter's life was marked with the appearance of a Silent Brother. Emma thought of the one Silent Brother she'd ever liked. She missed him still, sometimes. The alley suddenly lit up like daylight. Blinking, Emma turned to see that a familiar pickup truck had pulled into the alley's entrance. It came to a stop, headlights still on, and Diana Wrayburn jumped down from the driver's seat. When Diana had come to work as the tutor to the children of the Los Angeles Institute five years ago, Emma had thought she was the most beautiful woman she'd ever seen. She was tall and spare and elegant, with the silvery tattoo of a koi fish standing out across the dark skin of one arched cheekbone. Her eyes were brown with flecks of green in them, and right now they were flashing with angry fire. She was wearing an ankle- length black dress that fell around her long body in elegant folds. She looked like the dangerous Roman goddess of the hunt she was named for. "Emma! Cristina!'' She hurried toward them. "What happened? Are you all right?" For a moment Emma paused the glaring and let herself enjoy being hugged fiercely. Diana had always been too young for Emma to think of her as a mother, but an older sister, maybe. Someone protective. Diana let go of her and hugged Cristina too, who looked startled. Emma had long had the suspicion that there hadn't been much hugging in Cristina's home. "What happened? Why are you trying to burn a hole through Brother Enoch with your eyeballs?" "We were patrolling--" Emma began. "We saw a fey stealing from humans," Cristina added quickly. "Yes, and I stopped him and told him to turn out his pockets--" "A faerie?" A look of disquiet came over Diana's face. "Emma, you know you shouldn't confront one of the Fair Folk, even when Cristina's with you--" "I've fought Fair Folk before," Emma said. It was true. Both she and Diana had fought in the Shadowhunter city of Alicante when Sebastian's forces had attacked. The streets had been full of faerie warriors. The adults had taken the children and walled them up in the fortresslike Hall of Accords, where they were meant to be safe. But the faeries had broken the locks.... Diana had been there, laying to the right and left of her with her deadly sword, saving dozens of children. Emma had been one of those saved. She had loved Diana since then. "I had a feeling," Emma went on, "that something bigger and worse was happening. I followed the faerie when he ran. I know I shouldn't have, but--I found that body. And it's covered in the same marks my parents' bodies were. The same markings, Diana." Diana turned to Cristina. "Could you give us a moment alone, please, Tina?" Cristina hesitated. But as a guest of the Los Angeles Institute, a young Shadowhunter on Leave, she was required to do as the senior staff of the Institute requested. With a glance at Emma, she moved away, toward the spot where the body still lay. It was surrounded by a ring of Silent Brothers, like a flock of pale birds in their parchment robes. They were sprinkling a sort of shimmering powder over the markings, or at least that's how it looked. Emma wished she were closer and could see properly. Diana exhaled. "Emma, are you sure?" Emma bit back an angry retort. She understood why Diana was asking. Over the years there had been so many false leads--so many times Emma had thought she had found a clue or a translation for the markings or a story in a mundane newspaper--and every time she had been wrong. "I just don't want you to get your hopes up," Diana said. "I know," Emma said. "But I shouldn't ignore it. I can't ignore it. You believe me. You've always believed me, right?" "That Sebastian Morgenstern didn't kill your parents? Oh, honey, you know I do." Diana patted Emma's shoulder lightly. "I just don't want you to get hurt, and with Julian not here . . ." Emma waited for her to go on. "Well, with Julian not here, you get hurt more easily. Parabatai buffer each other. I know you're strong, you are, but this is something that cut you so deeply when you were just a child. It's twelve-year-old Emma that reacts to anything to do with your parents, not almost-adult Emma." Diana winced and touched the side of her head. "Brother Enoch is calling me over," she said. Silent Brothers were able to communicate with Shadowhunters using telepathy only they could hear, though they were also able to project to groups if the need arose. "Can you make it back to the Institute?" "I can, but if I could just see the body again--" "The Silent Brothers say no," Diana said firmly. "I'll find out what I can, and I'll share it with you? Deal?" Emma nodded reluctantly. "Deal." Diana headed off toward the Silent Brothers, stopping to talk briefly to Cristina. By the time Emma reached the car she had parked, Cristina had joined her, and they both climbed in silently. Emma sat where she was for a moment, drained, the car keys dangling from her hand. In the rearview mirror she could see the alleyway behind them, lit up like a baseball stadium by the truck's powerful headlights. Diana was moving among the parchment-robed Silent Brothers. The powder on the ground was white in the glare. "Are you all right?" Cristina said. Emma turned to her. "You have to tell me what you saw," she begged. "You were close to the body. Did you hear Diana say anything to the Brothers? Are they definitely the same markings?" "I don't need to tell you," Cristina said. "I--" Emma broke off. She felt wretched. She'd messed up the whole plan for the night, lost their faerie criminal, lost her chance of examining the body, probably hurt Cristina's feelings. "I know you don't. I'm really sorry, Cristina. I didn't mean to get you in trouble. It's just that--" "I didn't say that." Cristina fumbled in the pocket of her gear. "I said I didn't need to tell you, because I meant I could show you. Here. Look at these." She held out her phone, and Emma's heart leaped--Cristina was scrolling through picture after picture she'd taken of the body and the Brothers, the alley, the blood. Everything. "Cristina, I love you," Emma said. "I will marry you. Marry you." Cristina giggled. "My mother's already picked out who I'm going to marry, remember? Imagine what she'd say if I brought you home." "You don't think she'd like me more than Perfect Diego?" "I think you would be able to hear her screaming in Idris." Idris was the home country of the Shadowhunters, where they had first been created, where the Clave held its seat. It was tucked away at the intersection of France, Germany, and Switzerland, hidden by spells from mundane eyes. The Dark War had ravaged its capital city of Alicante, which was still being rebuilt. Emma laughed. Relief was coursing through her. They had something after all. A clue, as Tiberius would say, head stuck in a detective novel. Missing Ty suddenly, she reached to start up the car. "Did you really tell that faerie that you broke up with Cameron and not the other way around?" Cristina said. "Please don't bring that up," Emma said. "I'm not proud of it." Cristina snorted. It was remarkably unladylike. "Can you come to my room after we get back?" Emma asked, flicking on the headlights. "I want to show you something." Cristina frowned. "It isn't a strange birthmark or a wart, is it? My abuela said she wanted to show me something once, and it turned out to be a wart on her--" "It's not a wart!" As Emma pulled the car out and merged with the rest of the traffic, she sensed anxiety fizzing through her veins. Usually she felt exhausted after a fight as the adrenaline drained out of her. Now, though, she was about to show Cristina something that no one but Julian had ever seen. Something she herself wasn't exactly proud of. She couldn't help wondering how Cristina would take it. <|title|>Chapter 2: Neither The Angels in Heaven <|startofchapter|>"Julian calls it my Wall of Crazy, " Emma said. She and Cristina were standing in front of the closet in Emma's bedroom, the door of which was propped wide open. The closet was empty of clothes. Emma's wardrobe, mostly vintage dresses and jeans she'd picked up in secondhand stores in Silver Lake and Santa Monica, was either hung in her armoire or folded in her dresser. The inside walls of the closet in her blue-painted room (the mural on the bedroom wall of swallows in flight over the towers of a castle had been done by Julian when she first moved in, a nod to the symbol of the Carstairs family) were covered in photographs, newspaper clippings, and sticky notes in Emma's cramped handwriting. "Everything is color coded," she said, indicating the sticky notes. "Stories from mundane newspapers, research into spells, research into demonic languages, things I've managed to get out of Diana over the years . . . It's everything I've ever found that connects to my parents' deaths." Cristina moved closer to examine the walls, then swung around suddenly to stare at Emma. "Some of these look like official Clave files." "They are," Emma said. "I stole them from the Consul's office in Idris when I was twelve." "You stole these from Jia Penhallow?" Cristina looked horrified. Emma supposed she couldn't blame her. The Consul was the highest elected official in the Clave--only the Inquisitor came close in terms of power and influence. "Where else was I going to get photos of my parents' bodies?" Emma asked, shrugging off her jacket and tossing it onto her bed. She wore a tank top underneath, the breeze from the wilderness cool on her bare arms. "So the pictures I took tonight--where do they go?" Cristina handed them to Emma. They were still damp with toner--the first thing they'd done when they'd gotten back to the Institute was print out the two clearest photos of the alleyway body from Cristina's phone. Emma leaned in and pinned them carefully beside the Clave photos of her own parents' bodies--dimmed with time now and curling at the edges. She leaned back and looked from one to the other. The markings were ugly, spiky, hard to concentrate on. They seemed to push back against being viewed. They weren't a demon language anyone had been able to identify to her, but they felt as if no human mind could have conceived of them. "So now what?" Cristina said. "I mean, what is your plan for what to do next?" "I'll see what Diana says tomorrow," Emma said. "If she found out anything. Do the Silent Brothers already know about the murders Rook was talking about? If they don't, I'll go back to the Shadow Market. I'll dig up whatever money I've got, or owe Johnny Rook a favor--I don't care. If someone's killing people now and covering their bodies with this writing, then it means--it means Sebastian Morgenstern didn't kill my parents five years ago. It means I'm right, and their deaths were something else." "It might not mean exactly that, Emma." Cristina's voice was gentle. "I'm one of the few people alive who saw Sebastian Morgenstern attack an Institute," said Emma. It was both one of her clearest memories and a blur: She remembered grabbing up baby Tavvy with Dru following, carrying him through the Institute as Sebastian's Dark warriors howled, remembered the sight of Sebastian himself, all white hair and dead black demonic eyes, remembered the blood and Mark, remembered Julian waiting for her. "I saw him. Saw his face, his eyes when he looked at me. It's not that I don't think he could have killed my parents. He would have killed anyone who stood in his way. It's just that I don't think he would have bothered." Her eyes stung. "I just have to get more proof. Convince the Clave. Because as long as this is laid at Sebastian's door, the real murderer, the person responsible, won't be punished. And I don't think I could stand that." "Emma." Cristina touched Emma's arm lightly with her hand. "You know I think the Angel has a plan for us. For you. And whatever I can do to help you, I will." Emma did know that. To many Shadowhunters, the Angel who had created the race of Nephilim was a distant figure. To Cristina, Raziel was a living presence. Around her throat she wore a medallion consecrated to the Angel. Raziel was etched on the front, and there were words written in Latin on the back: Blessed be the Angel my strength, who teaches my hands to war, and my fingers to fight. Cristina touched her medallion often: for strength, before an exam, before a battle. In many ways, Emma envied Cristina her faith. Sometimes she thought the only things she had faith in were revenge and Julian. Emma leaned back against the wall, paper and sticky notes rough against her bare shoulder. "Even if it means breaking the rules? I know you hate that." "I am not as boring as you seem to think." Cristina hit Emma's shoulder lightly in mock offense. "Anyway, there is nothing more we can do tonight. What would take your mind off things? Bad movies? Ice cream?" "Introducing you to the Blackthorns," Emma said, pushing off the wall of the closet. "But they're not here." Cristina looked at Emma as if worried she'd hit her head. "They aren't and they are." Emma held out her hand. "Come with me." Cristina allowed herself to be led out into the corridor. It was all wood and glass, the windows giving out onto what during the daytime were vistas of sea and sand and desert. Emma had thought when she moved into the Institute that eventually the views would start to fade out of her consciousness, that she wouldn't wake up every morning still startled by the blue of the ocean, the sky. That hadn't happened. The sea still fascinated her with its ever-changing surface, and the desert with its shadows and flowers. She could see the gleam of the moon off the sea now, through the night windows: silver and black. Emma and Cristina made their way down the hall. Emma paused at the top of the enormous staircase that descended to the Institute's entryway. It was located exactly in the middle of the Institute, splitting the north and south wings. Emma had deliberately chosen a bedroom, years ago, that was at the other end of the Institute from where the Blackthorns slept. It was a way of declaring silently that she knew she was still a Carstairs. She leaned on the railing now and looked down, Cristina beside her. Institutes were built to impress: They were meeting places for Shadowhunters, the heart of Conclaves--communities of local Nephilim. The massive entryway, a square room whose focal point was the enormous staircase that led up to the landing and the second floor, had a black-and- white marble floor and was decorated with uncomfortable-looking furniture that no one ever sat in. It seemed like the entrance of a museum. From the landing you could see that the white and black tiles that patterned the floor formed the shape of the Angel Raziel, rising from the waters of Lake Lyn in Idris, holding two of the Mortal Instruments--a flashing sword and a gold-encrusted cup. It was an image every Shadowhunter child knew. A thousand years ago the Angel Raziel had been summoned by Jonathan Shadowhunter, the father of all Nephilim, to put down a plague of demons. Raziel had gifted Jonathan with the Mortal Instruments and the Gray Book, in which all runes were inscribed. He had also mixed his blood with human blood and given it to Jonathan and his followers to drink, allowing their skin to bear runes and creating the first of the Nephilim. The image of Raziel rising was sacred to Nephilim: It was called the Triptych and was found in places where Shadowhunters met or where they had died. The image on the floor of the Institute's entryway was a memorial. When Sebastian Morgenstern and his faerie army had stormed the Institute, the floor had been plain marble. After the Dark War, the Blackthorn children had returned to the Institute to find that the room where so many had died was already being torn up. The stones where Shadowhunters had bled were replaced, and the mural put in to commemorate those who had been lost. Every time Emma walked on it, she was reminded of her parents and of Julian's father. She didn't mind--she didn't want to forget. "When you said they are and they aren't, did you mean because Arthur was here?" Cristina asked. She was looking thoughtfully down on the Angel. "Definitely not." Arthur Blackthorn was the head of the Los Angeles Institute. At least, that was his title. He was a classicist, obsessed with the mythology of Greece and Rome, constantly locked in the attic with bits of old pottery, moldering books, and endless essays and monographs. Emma didn't think she'd ever seen him take a direct interest in a Shadowhunter issue. She could count on one hand the number of times she and Cristina had seen him since Cristina's arrival at the Institute. "Although I'm impressed you remember he lives here." Cristina rolled her eyes. "Don't roll your eyes. It punctures my dramatic moment. I want my dramatic moment unpunctured." "What dramatic moment?" Cristina demanded. "Why have you dragged me out here when I want to shower and change out of this gear? Besides, I need coffee." "You always need coffee," said Emma, moving back toward the corridor and the other wing of the house. "It's a debilitating addiction." Cristina said something uncomplimentary under her breath in Spanish, but she followed Emma nonetheless, her curiosity clearly winning out. Emma spun around so she could walk backward, like a tour guide. "Okay, most of the family is in the south wing," she said. "First stop, Tavvy's room." The door of Octavian Blackthorn's room was already open. He wasn't that invested in privacy, being only seven. Emma leaned in, and Cristina, looking puzzled, leaned in beside her. The room contained a small bed with a brightly striped coverlet, a playhouse nearly as tall as Emma, and a tent full of books and toys. "Tavvy has nightmares," Emma said. "Sometimes Julian comes and sleeps in the tent with him." Cristina smiled. "Di--my mother used to do that for me when I was a little girl." The next room was Drusilla's. Dru was thirteen and obsessed with horror movies. Books about slasher films and serial killers littered the floor. The walls were black, and vintage horror posters were pasted up over the windows. "Dru loves horror movies," said Emma. "Anything with the word 'blood' or 'terror' or 'prom' in it. Why do they call it a prom, I wonder--" "It's short for 'promenade,'" said Cristina. "Why do you speak English so much better than I do?" "That wasn't English," Cristina pointed out, as Emma darted farther down the hall. "That was French." "The twins have rooms across from each other." Emma gestured at two closed doors. "This is Livvy." She swung a door open to reveal a beautifully clean and decorated bedroom. Someone had artfully covered the headboard with whimsical fabric decorated with a pattern of teacups. Bright costume jewelry hung from screens nailed to the wall. Books about computers and programming languages were stacked in careful rows by her bed. "Programming languages," Cristina exclaimed. "Does she like computers?" "She and Ty," said Emma. "Ty likes computers, he likes the way they organize patterns so that he can analyze them, but he's actually not great at math. Livvy does the math and they tag team." The next room was Ty's. "Tiberius Nero Blackthorn," said Emma. "I think his parents may have gone a little overboard with the name. It's like naming someone Magnificent Bastard." Cristina giggled. Ty's room was neat, with books lined up not in alphabetical order but by color. Colors that Ty liked the most, like blue and gold and green, were at the front of the room and near the bed. Colors he didn't like--orange and purple--were relegated to nooks and spaces by the window. It might have looked haphazard to someone else, but Emma knew that Ty was aware of the location of every volume. On the bedside table were his most beloved books: Arthur Conan Doyle's Sherlock Holmes stories. Beside them were a collection of small toys. Julian had made them for Ty years before when he found that having something in his hand calmed Ty down and helped him focus. There was a squiggly ball of pipe cleaners, and a black plastic cube made up of clicking parts that could be twisted into different patterns. Cristina cast a look at Emma's wry-fond expression and said, "You've talked about Tiberius before. He's the one who loves animals." Emma nodded. "He's always outside, bothering lizards and squirrels." She waved her arm to indicate the desert that spread out behind the Institute-- unspoiled land, without houses or human occupation, that stretched to the ridge of mountains that separated the beach from the Valley. "Hopefully he's having fun in England, collecting tadpoles and frogs and toads-in-the-hole...." "That's a kind of food!" "Can't be," Emma said, moving down the hall. "It's pudding!" Cristina objected as Emma found the next door and opened it. The room inside was painted almost the exact same blue as the sea and sky outside. During the day it looked as if it were part of them, floating in a blue forever. Murals covered the walls--intricate patterns, and along the whole wall that faced the desert, the outline of a castle wrapped by a high wall of thorns. A prince rode toward it, his head down, his sword broken. "La Bella Durmiente," said Cristina. Sleeping Beauty. "But I did not remember it being so sad, or the prince so defeated." She glanced at Emma. "Is he a sorrowful boy, Julian?" "No," Emma said, only half paying attention. She hadn't come into Jules's room since he'd gone. It looked like he hadn't cleaned up before he left, and there were clothes on the floor, half-done sketches scattered over the desk, even a mug on the nightstand that probably held coffee that had long since molded. "Not depressed or anything like that." "Depressed is not the same as sad," Cristina observed. But Emma didn't want to think about Julian being sad, not now, not when he was so close to coming home. Now that it was past midnight, he was technically coming home tomorrow. She felt a shiver of excitement and relief. "Come on." She went out of the room and across the hall, Cristina following. Emma put her hand against a closed door. It was wood, like the others, the surface chipped as if no one had cleaned or sanded it in a long time. "This was Mark's room," she said. Every Shadowhunter knew Mark Blackthorn's name. The half-faerie, half-Shadowhunter boy who had been taken during the Dark War and made a part of the Wild Hunt, the most vicious of the fey. The ones who rode through the sky once a month, preying on humans, visiting the scenes of battle, feeding on fear and death like murderous hawks. Mark had always been gentle. Emma wondered whether he still was anymore. "Mark Blackthorn was part of the reason I came here," Cristina said, a little shyly. "It has always been my hope that one day I might be part of brokering a better treaty than the Cold Peace. Something more fair to Downworlders and those Shadowhunters who might love them." Emma felt her eyes widen. "I didn't know. You never told me that." Cristina gestured around them. "You have shared something with me," she said. "You have shared the Blackthorns. I thought I should share something with you." "I'm glad you came here," Emma said impulsively, and Cristina blushed. "Even if it was partly for Mark. And even if you won't tell me anything else about why." Cristina shrugged. "I like Los Angeles." She gave Emma a sly sideways smile. "Are you absolutely sure you don't want bad movies and ice cream?" Emma took a deep breath. She remembered Julian telling her once that when things got to be too much, he imagined locking certain situations and emotions away in a box. Shut them away, he'd said, and they won't bother you. They're gone. She imagined, now, taking her memories of the body in the alley, of Sebastian Morgenstern and the Clave, her breakup with Cameron, her need for answers, her anger at the world over her parents' deaths, and her eagerness to see Julian and the others tomorrow, and locking them up in a box. She imagined placing the box somewhere she could get to it easily, somewhere she could find it and open it again. "Emma?" Cristina said anxiously. "Are you all right? You look a little as if you might throw up." Click went the lock on the box. In her mind, Emma set it aside; back in the world, she smiled at Cristina. "Ice cream and bad movies sounds great," she said. "Let's go." The sky above the ocean was streaked with the pink and rose of sunset. Emma slowed from a run to a jog, gasping, her heart pounding in her chest. Usually Emma trained in the afternoon and evening and ran in the early morning, but she'd woken up late after staying up nearly all night with Cristina. She'd spent the day feverishly rearranging her evidence, calling Johnny Rook to cajole further details about the murders out of him, writing up notes for her wall, and waiting impatiently for Diana to turn up. Unlike most tutors, Diana didn't live in the Institute with the Blackthorns --she had her own house in Santa Monica. Technically, Diana didn't need to be at the Institute at all today, but Emma'd sent her at least six texts. Maybe seven. Cristina had stopped her from sending eight, and suggested she go for a run to get rid of her anxiety. She leaned forward, hands on her bent knees, trying to catch her breath. The beach was nearly deserted except for a few mundane couples finishing their romantic sunset walks, heading back up to the cars they'd left parked along the highway. She wondered how many miles she'd run up and down this stretch of beach in the years she'd lived in the Institute. Five miles a day, every day. And that was after three hours at least in the training room. Half the scars Emma had on her body she'd put there herself, teaching herself to fall from the highest rafters, training herself to fight through pain by practicing barefoot --on broken glass. The most brutal scar she had was on her forearm, and she'd given herself that, too, in a sense. It had come from Cortana, the day her parents had died. Julian had placed the blade in her arms, and she'd cradled it through the blood and the pain, weeping as it cut her skin. It had left a long white line along her arm, one that sometimes made her feel shy about wearing sleeveless dresses or tank tops. She wondered if even other Shadowhunters would stare at the scar, wonder where it came from. Though Julian never stared. She straightened up. From the waterline, she could see the Institute, all glass and stone, up on the hill above the beach. She could see the bump of Arthur's attic, even the dark window of her own bedroom. She'd slept restlessly there today, dreaming about the dead mundane man, the marks on his body, the marks on her parents. She'd tried to conjure up a vision of what she'd do when she found out who'd killed them. How any amount of physical pain she could inflict could ever even begin to make up for what she'd lost. Julian had been in the dream too. She didn't know what exactly she'd dreamed, but she'd woken up with a clear picture of him in her mind-- tall, slender Jules, with his dark brown curls and startling blue-green eyes. His dark lashes and pale skin, the way he bit his nails when he was under stress, his confident handling of weapons and even more confident handling of brushes and paints. Julian, who would be home tomorrow. Julian would understand exactly what she was feeling--how long she'd waited for a clue about her parents. How now that she'd found one, the world suddenly seemed full of a terrifyingly imminent possibility. She remembered what Jem, the ex-Silent Brother who'd helped preside over her parabatai ceremony, had said about what Julian was to her, that there was an expression for it in his native Chinese, zhiyin. "The one who understands your music." Emma couldn't play a note on any instrument, but Julian understood her music. Even the music of revenge. Dark clouds were rolling in from the ocean. It was about to rain. Trying to put Jules out of her mind, Emma started to run again, darting up the dirt road toward the Institute. Nearing the building, she slowed, staring. There was a man coming down the steps. He was tall and narrow, dressed in a long coat the color of crow feathers. His hair was short and graying. He usually dressed in black; she suspected that was where his last name came from. He wasn't a warlock, Johnny Rook, even if he had a name like one. He was something else. He saw her and his eyes widened. She broke into a sprint, cutting him off before he could dart around the side of the house, away from her. She skidded to a stop in front of him, blocking his way. "What are you doing here?" His odd eyes darted around, seeking an escape route. "Nothing. Stopping by." "Did you say anything about me coming to the Shadow Market to Diana? Because if you did--" He drew himself up. There was something odd about his face, as well as his eyes; it had an almost ravaged look, as if something awful had happened to him when he was young, something that had cut lines like knife scars into his skin. "You're not the head of the Institute, Emma Carstairs," he said. "The information I gave you was good." "You said you'd stay quiet!" "Emma." Emma's name, spoken firmly and with precision. Emma turned with slow dread to see Diana watching her from the top of the steps, the evening wind blowing her curly hair. She was wearing another long, elegant dress that made her look tall and imposing. She also looked absolutely furious. "I guess you got my texts," Emma said. Diana didn't react. "Leave Mr. Rook alone. We need to talk. I want to see you in my office in precisely ten minutes," she said. Diana turned and went back into the Institute. Emma shot Rook a venomous glare. "Deals with you are supposed to be secret," she said, stabbing her index finger into his chest. "Maybe you didn't promise you'd keep your mouth shut, but we both know that's what people want from you. What they expect." A small smile played around his mouth. "You don't scare me, Emma." "Maybe I should." "That's what's funny about you Nephilim," said Rook. "You know about Downworld, but you don't live in it." He put his lips to her ear, uncomfortably close. His breath raised the hairs on her neck when he spoke. "There are far more frightening things than you in this world, Emma Carstairs." Emma wrenched herself away from him, turned, and ran up the Institute steps. Ten minutes later Emma was standing in front of Diana's desk, her hair, still wet from her shower, dripping onto the polished tile floor. Though Diana didn't live at the Institute, she had an office there, a comfortable corner room overlooking the highway and the sea. Emma could see the grass stretching out in front of the Institute in the twilight, blue-shadowed at the edges with coastal sage scrub. Rain had begun to patter down, streaking the windows. The office was sparsely decorated. On the desk was a photograph of a tall man with his arm around a small girl who resembled Diana despite her youth. They stood in front of a shop whose sign read diana's arrow. There were flowers on the windowsill that Diana had placed there to brighten the room. She folded her arms across the top of the desk and looked at Emma levelly. "You lied to me last night," she said. "I didn't," Emma said, "not exactly. I--" "Don't say you omitted, Emma," said Diana. "You know better than that." "What did Johnny Rook tell you?" Emma said, and was immediately sorry she'd said it. Diana's expression darkened. "Why don't you tell me?" she said. "In fact, tell me what you did and what your punishment should be. Does that seem fair?" Emma crossed her arms defiantly over her chest. She hated being caught, and Diana was good at catching her. Diana was smart, which was often awesome, but not when she was angry. Emma could either fill in for Diana what she thought Diana was angry about, thus possibly revealing more than Diana already knew, or she could stay silent, thus possibly annoying Diana further. After a moment's deliberation, she said, "I should have to take care of a box of kittens. You know how cruel kittens are, with their tiny little claws and terrible attitudes." "Speaking of terrible attitudes," Diana said. She was idly playing with a pencil. "You went to the Shadow Market, against specific rules. You talked to Johnny Rook. He tipped you off that there'd be a body dump at the Sepulchre that might be connected to your parents' deaths. You didn't just happen to be there. You weren't patrolling." "I paid Rook not to say anything," Emma muttered. "I trusted him!" Diana threw her pencil down. "Emma, the guy is known as Rook the Crook. In fact, he's not just a crook, he's on the Clave's watch list because he works with faeries without permission. Any Downworlder or mundane who works in secret with faeries is locked out of business with Shadowhunters and forfeits their protection; you know that." Emma threw up her hands. "But those are some of the most useful people out there! Cutting them off isn't helping the Clave, it's punishing Shadowhunters!" Diana shook her head. "The rules are the rules for a reason. Being a Shadowhunter, a good one, is about more than just training fourteen hours a day and knowing sixty-five ways of killing a man with salad tongs." "Sixty-seven," Emma said automatically. "Diana, I'm sorry. I really am, especially for dragging Cristina into this. It's not her fault." "Oh, I know that." Diana was still frowning. Emma plunged ahead. "Last night," she said, "you told me you believed me. About Sebastian not killing my parents. About there being more to it. Their deaths weren't just-- just Sebastian wiping out the Conclave. Someone wanted them dead. Their deaths meant something--" "Everyone's death means something," Diana said in a clipped tone. She passed a hand across her eyes. "I talked to the Silent Brothers last night. I found out what they know. And God, I've been telling myself I ought to lie to you about it--I've been struggling with it all day--" "Please," Emma whispered. "Please, don't lie." "But I can't. I remember when I came here, and you were this little girl, you were twelve years old, and you were wrecked. You'd lost everything. All you had to hang on to was Julian and your need for revenge. For Sebastian not to have been the reason your parents died, because if he was, then how could you punish him?" She took a deep breath. "I know Johnny Rook told you there've been a rash of murders. He's right. Twelve total, counting the one last night. No trace of the murderer left behind. All of the victims unidentified. Their teeth broken, wallets missing, fingerprints sanded off." "And the Silent Brothers didn't know about this? The Clave, the Council --?" "They did know. And this is the part you're not going to like." Diana's fingernails tapped on the glass of her desk. "Several of the dead were Fair Folk. That makes this a matter for the Scholomance, the Centurions, and the Silent Brothers. Not for Institutes. The Silent Brothers knew. The Clave knew. They didn't tell us, deliberately, because they don't want us involved." "The Scholomance?" The Scholomance was a piece of Shadowhunter history come to life. A cold castle of towers and corridors carved into the side of a mountain in the Carpathians, it had existed for centuries as a place where the most elite of Shadowhunters were trained to deal with the double menaces of demons and Downworlders. It had been closed when the first Accords were signed: a show of faith that Downworlders and Shadowhunters were no longer at war. Now with the advent of the Cold Peace, it had been reopened and was operational again. One had to pass a series of harsh tests to be admitted, and what was learned at the school was not to be shared with others. Those who graduated were called Centurions, scholars and legendary warriors; Emma had never met one in person. "It might not be fair, but it's the truth." "But the markings. They admitted they were the same markings that were on my parents' bodies?" "They didn't admit anything," Diana said. "They said they'd handle it. They said not to get involved, that the rule had come down from the Council itself." "The bodies?" Emma said. "Did the bodies dissolve when they tried to move them, like my parents' bodies?" "Emma!" Diana rose to her feet. Her hair was a dark, lovely cloud around her face. "We don't interfere with what happens to the fey, not anymore. That's what the Cold Peace means. The Clave hasn't just suggested we don't do this. It's forbidden to interfere with faerie business. If you involve yourself, it could have consequences not just for you but for Julian." It was as if Diana had picked up one of the heavy paperweights from the desk and smashed it into Emma's chest. "Julian?" "What does he do every year? On the anniversary of the Cold Peace?" Emma thought of Julian, sitting here, in this office. Year after year, from the time he was twelve and all scraped elbows and torn jeans. He would sit patiently with pen and ink, writing his letter to the Clave, petitioning them to let his sister Helen come home from Wrangel Island. Wrangel Island was the seat of all the world's wards, a set of magical spells that had been set up to protect the earth from certain demons a thousand years ago. It was also a tiny ice floe thousands of miles away in the Arctic Sea. When the Cold Peace had been declared, Helen had been sent there; the Clave had said it was in order that she study the wards, but no one believed it was anything other than an exile. She had been allowed a few trips home since then, including the one to Idris when she had married Aline Penhallow, the daughter of the Consul. But even that powerful connection couldn't free her. Every year Julian wrote. And every year he was denied. Diana spoke in a softer voice. "Every year the Clave says no because Helen's loyalty might be to the Fair Folk. How will it look if they think we're investigating faerie killings against their orders? How would it affect the chance that they might let her go?" "Julian would want me to--" Emma started. "Julian would cut off his hand if you asked him to. That doesn't mean you should." Diana rubbed her temples as if they ached. "Revenge isn't family, Emma. It isn't a friend, and it's a cold bedfellow." She dropped her hand and moved toward the window, glancing back over her shoulder at Emma. "Do you know why I took this job, here at the Institute? And don't give me a sarcastic answer." Emma looked down at the floor. It was made up of alternating blue and white tiles; inside the white tiles were drawings: a rose, a castle, a church spire, an angel wing, a flock of birds, each one different. "Because you were there in Alicante during the Dark War," said Emma, a catch in her voice. "You were there when Julian had to--to stop his father. You saw us fight, and you thought we were brave and you wanted to help. That's what you've always said." "I had someone when I was younger who helped me become who I really am," said Diana. Emma's ears perked. Diana rarely spoke about her life. The Wrayburns had been a famous Shadowhunter family for generations, but Diana was the last. She never talked about her childhood, her family. It was as if her life had started when she'd taken over her father's weapons shop in Alicante. "I wanted to help you become who you really are." "Which is?" "The best Shadowhunter of your generation," said Diana. "You train and fight like no one I've ever seen. Which is exactly why I don't want to see you throw your potential away in the pursuit of something that won't heal your wounds." Throw my potential away? Diana didn't know, didn't understand. None of her family had died in the Dark War. And Emma's parents hadn't died fighting; they'd been murdered, tortured and mutilated. Crying out for her, maybe, in those moments, short or long or endless, between life and death. There was a sharp knock on the door. It swung open to reveal Cristina. She wore jeans and a sweater and her cheeks were pink, as if she was embarrassed to be interrupting. "The Blackthorns," she said. "They've come home." Emma completely forgot whatever she'd been about to say to Diana and spun toward the door. "What? They're not supposed to get here until tomorrow!" Cristina shrugged helplessly. "It could be a different huge family that just Portaled into the entryway." Emma put her hand to her chest. Cristina was right. She could feel it: That faint pain that had existed behind her ribs ever since Julian had gone had become suddenly both better and worse--less painful, more like a butterfly wildly flapping its wings under her heart. She darted out of the office, her bare feet slapping against the polished hardwood of the corridor. She hit the stairs and took them two at a time, swinging around the landings. She could hear voices now too. She thought she heard Dru's high, soft voice raised in a question, and Livvy answering. And then she was there, on the second-floor gallery overlooking the foyer. The space was lit up as if it were daytime by a myriad of swirling colors, remnants of a vanishing Portal. In the center of the room stood the Blackthorns: Julian towering over the fifteen-year-old twins, Livvy and Ty. Beside them was Drusilla, holding the hand of the youngest, Tavvy. He looked asleep on his feet, his curly head against Dru's arm, his eyes closed. "You're back!" Emma cried. They all looked up at her. The Blackthorns had always been a family with a strong resemblance to each other: They shared the same wavy dark-brown hair, the color of bitter chocolate, and the same blue-green eyes. Though Ty, with his gray eyes, skinny frame, and tousled black hair, looked as if he'd wandered in from another branch of the family. Dru and Livvy were smiling, and there was welcome in Ty's grave nod, but it was Julian who Emma saw. She felt the parabatai rune on her upper arm throb as he looked up at her. She darted down the stairs. Julian was bending to say something to Dru. Then he turned and took several quick strides toward Emma. He filled up her vision; he was all she could see. Not just Julian as he appeared now, walking toward her across the Angel-patterned floor, but Julian handing her seraph blades he'd named, Julian always giving her the blanket when it was cold in the car, Julian standing opposite her in the Silent City, white and gold fire rising up between them as they said their parabatai vows. They collided in the middle of the foyer, and she threw her arms around him. "Jules," she said, but the sound was muffled against his shoulder as he hugged her back. She could hear the parabatai vows in the back of her mind as she breathed in the familiar scent of him: cloves, soap, salt. Whither thou goest, I will go. For a moment his arms were so tight around her that she could barely breathe. Then he let her go and stepped back. Emma nearly unbalanced. She hadn't expected either quite such a tight hug or such a quick shove away. He looked different too. Her mind couldn't quite take it in. "I thought you were coming tomorrow morning," Emma said. She tried to catch Julian's eye, to get him to return her welcoming smile. Instead, he was looking at his brothers and sisters as if counting to make sure they were all there. "Malcolm showed up early," he said to her, over his shoulder. "Suddenly appeared in Great-Aunt Marjorie's kitchen, wearing pajamas. Said he'd forgotten the time difference. She screamed the house down." Emma felt the tension in her chest easing. Malcolm Fade, the head of the warlocks of Los Angeles, was a family friend, and his eccentricity was an old joke between her and Jules. "Then he accidentally Portaled us to London instead of here," Livvy announced, bounding forward to hug Emma. "And we had to hunt someone down to open another Portal--Diana!" Livvy detached herself from Emma and went to greet her tutor. For a few moments, everything was welcoming hubbub: questions and hellos and hugs. Tavvy had woken up and was wandering around sleepily, tugging on people's sleeves. Emma ruffled his hair. Thy people shall be my people. Julian's family had become Emma's when they had made themselves parabatal. It was almost like marriage in that way. Emma looked over at Julian. He was watching his family, his expression intent. As if he'd forgotten she was there. And in that moment her mind suddenly seemed to wake up and present her with a catalog of the ways in which he seemed different. He'd always kept his hair short and practical, but he must have forgotten to cut it in England: It had grown out, in thick, luscious, curly Blackthorn waves. The tips hung down past his ears. He was tanned, and it wasn't as if she didn't know the color of his eyes, but now they seemed suddenly both brighter and darker at once, the intense blue-green of the ocean a mile down from the surface. The shape of his face had changed as well, resettling into more adult lines, losing the softness of childhood, revealing the clean sweep of jawbone that peaked at his slightly sharp chin, an echo of the wing shape of his collarbone, visible just beneath the collar of his T-shirt. She looked away. To her surprise, her heart was beating fast, as if she was nervous. Flustered, she knelt down to hug Tavvy. "You're missing teeth," she told him when he grinned at her. "Careless of you." "Dru told me that faeries steal your teeth while you're sleeping," Tavvy said. "That's because that's what I told her," Emma said, rising to her feet. She felt a light touch on her arm. It was Julian. With his finger he began to trace words against her skin--it was something they had been doing their whole lives, ever since they realized they needed a way to silently communicate during boring study sessions or time with adults. A-R-E Y-O-U A-L-L R-l-G-H-T? She nodded at him. He was looking at her with faint concern, which was a relief. It felt familiar. Did he really look so different? He was less thin, more muscular, though it was a slender sort of muscle. He looked like the swimmers she had always admired for their spare beauty. He still wore the same arrangement of leather and shell and sea-glass bracelets around his wrists, though. His hands were still spotted with paint. He was still Julian. "You're all so tanned," Diana was saying. "How are you all so tanned? I thought it rained all the time in England!" "I don't have a tan," said Tiberius matter-of-factly. It was true, he didn't. Ty detested the sun. When they all went to the beach he was usually to be found under a terrifyingly huge umbrella, reading a detective story. "Great-Aunt Marjorie made us train outside all day," Livvy said. "Well, not Tavvy. She kept him inside and fed him bramble jelly." "Tiberius hid," said Drusilla. "In the barn." "It wasn't hiding," said Ty. "It was a strategic retreat." "It was hiding," said Dru, a scowl spreading across her round face. Her braids stuck out on either side of her head like Pippi Longstocking's. Emma tugged on one of them affectionately. "Don't argue with your brother," said Julian, and turned to Ty. "Don't argue with your sister. You're both tired." "What does being tired have to do with not arguing?" asked Ty. "Julian means you should all be asleep," Diana said. "It's only eight o'clock," Emma protested. "They just got here!" Diana pointed. Tavvy had curled up on the floor and was asleep in the angled beam of light from a lamp, exactly like a cat. "It's considerably later in England." Livvy stepped forward and picked up Tavvy gently. His head lolled against her neck. "I'll put him to bed." Julian's eyes met Diana's briefly. "Thanks, Livvy," he said. "I'll go tell Uncle Arthur we got in all right." He looked around and sighed. "We can deal with luggage in the morning. Everybody, bedtime." Livvy grumbled something; Emma didn't hear it. She felt puzzled; more than puzzled. Even though Julian had answered her texts and calls with short, neutral missives, she hadn't been prepared for a Julian who looked different, who seemed different. She wanted him to look at her the way he always had, with the smile that seemed reserved for their interactions. Diana was saying good night, picking up her keys and handbag. Taking advantage of the distraction, Emma reached out to trace lightly against Julian's skin with her finger. Need to Talk to You, she wrote. Without looking at her, Julian dropped his own hand and wrote along her forearm. What About? The foyer door opened and closed behind Diana, letting in a chilly gust of wind and rain. Water splashed on Emma's cheek as she turned to look at Julian. "It's important," she said. She wondered if she sounded incredulous. She'd never had to tell him something was important before. If she said she needed to talk to him, he knew she meant it. "Just--" She dropped her voice. "Come to my room after you see Arthur." He hesitated, just for a moment; the glass and shells on his wristbands rattled as he pushed his hair out of his face. Livvy was already headed upstairs with Tavvy, the others in her wake. Emma felt her annoyance soften immediately into guilt. Jules was exhausted, obviously. That was all. "Unless you're too tired," she said. He shook his head, his face unreadable--and Emma had always been able to read his face. "I'll come," he said, and then he put a hand on her shoulder. Lightly, a casual gesture. As if they hadn't been separated for two months. "It's good to see you again," he said, and turned to head up the stairs after Livvy. Of course he would have to go see Arthur, Emma thought. Someone had to tell their eccentric guardian that the Blackthorns were home. And of course he was tired. And of course he seemed different: people did, when you hadn't seen them in a while. It could take a day or two to get back to the way they used to be: Comfortable. Inseparable. Secure. She put her hand against her chest. Though the pain she had felt while Julian was in England, the stretched-rubber-band feeling she'd hated, was gone, she now felt a new strange ache near her heart. <|title|>Chapter 3: The Moon Never Beams Without Bringing Me Dreams <|startofchapter|>The attic of the Institute was dim. Two skylights were built into the roof, but Uncle Arthur had covered them with butcher paper when he had first moved his books and papers into this room, saying that he was worried the sunlight would damage the delicate instruments of his studies. Arthur and his brother, Julian's father Andrew, had been brought up by parents obsessed with the classical period: with Ancient Greek and Latin, with the lays of heroes, the mythology and history of Greece and Rome. Julian had grown up knowing the stories of the Iliad and the Odyssey, of the Argonauts and the Aeneid, of men and monsters, gods and heroes. But while Andrew had retained only a fondness for the classics (one that extended, admittedly, to naming his children after emperors and queens-- Julian was still grateful to his mother for the fact that he was a Julian and not a Julius, which was what his father had wanted), Arthur was obsessed. He had brought hundreds of books with him from England, and in the years since, the room had become stuffed with hundreds more. They were arranged according to a filing system only Arthur understood--Sophocles's Antigone tipping over onto Thucydides's History of the Peloponnesian War, scattered monographs, and books with their bindings ripped, the individual pages spread carefully across various surfaces. There were probably at least six desks in the room: When one became too overwhelmed with papers and bits of broken pottery and statuary. Uncle Arthur simply purchased another. He was sitting at one near the west side of the room. Through a tear in the butcher paper covering the window beside it, Julian could see a flash of blue ocean. The sleeves of Arthur's old sweater were rolled up. Under the hems of his frayed khakis, his feet were stuffed into ratty bedroom slippers. His cane, which he rarely used, was propped against a wall. "Achilles had a phorminx," he was muttering, "with a crossbar of silver; Hercules was taught to play the cithara. Both instruments have been translated as 'lyre,' but are they the same instrument? If they are, why the different words to describe them?" "Hello, Uncle," Julian said. He hefted the tray he was carrying, on which he'd placed a hastily assembled dinner. "We've come back." Arthur turned slowly, like an old dog cocking its head warily at the sound of a shout. "Andrew, good to see you," he said. "I was pondering the Greek ideals of love. Agape, of course, the highest love, the love that Gods feel. Then eros, romantic love; and philia, the love of friends; and storge, the love of family. Which would you say it is that our parabatai feel? Is it closer to philia or to agape--eros, of course, being forbidden? And if so, are we gifted with something, as Nephilim, that mundanes can never understand-- and so how did the Greeks know of it? A paradox, Andrew . . ." Julian exhaled. The last thing he wanted to talk about was the kind of love parabatai felt for each other. And he did not want to be called by his dead father's name. He wished he were somewhere, anywhere else, but he came forward anyway into where the light was stronger, where his uncle could see his face. "It's Julian. I said that we're back. All of us. Tavvy, Dru, the twins . . ." Arthur stared at him with uncomprehending blue-green eyes, and Julian fought against the sinking of his heart. He hadn't wanted to come up here at all; he'd wanted to go with Emma. But he could tell from the last fire-message he'd gotten from Diana that a trip to the attic would be necessary the moment he got back. It had always been his job. It always would be. He set the tray on the desk, careful to avoid the piles of paper. There was a stack of outgoing mail and scrawled patrol notes beside Arthur's elbow. Not enormous, but not as diminished as Julian had hoped it would be. "I brought you dinner." Arthur gazed at the tray of food as if it were a distant object barely seen through fog, his brows crinkling. It was a bowl of soup, quickly heated in the kitchen, now cooling in the chilly attic air. Julian had carefully wrapped the cutlery in napkins and placed a basket of bread on the tray, though he knew that when he returned in the morning to collect the remains, the food would be nearly untouched. "Do you think it's a clue?" Uncle Arthur said. "Do I think what's a clue?" "The cithara and the phorminx. They fit into the pattern, but the pattern is so large. . . ." Uncle Arthur leaned back with a sigh, gazing up at the wall in front of him, where hundreds of pieces of paper covered in spidery handwriting had been glued or tacked. "Life is short, and wisdom long to learn," he whispered. "Life's not that short," Julian said. "Or at least, it doesn't have to be." It had been for his parents, he supposed. It often was for Shadowhunters. But what was likely to harm Arthur, hidden away in his cloistered attic? He'd probably outlive all of them. He thought of Emma, the risks she took, the scars on her body that he saw when they swam or practiced. She had that in her, the blood of Shadowhunters who had risked their lives down through the generations, who lived off the oxygen of adrenaline and fighting. But he pushed away the thought of her dying as her parents had; it was not a thought he could bear. "No man under the sky lives twice," Arthur murmured, probably quoting something. He usually was. He was looking down at the desk again, and seemed lost in thought. Julian remembered years ago and the floor of the attic covered in Arthur's bloody handprints. That was the night he had first called on Malcolm Fade. "If you have everything you need. Uncle," Julian said, starting to move away. Arthur's head snapped up. For a moment his gaze was clear and focused. "You're a good boy," he said to Julian. "But it won't help you, in the end." Julian froze. "What?" But Arthur had already gone back to his papers. Julian turned and went down the attic steps. They creaked familiarly under his weight. The Los Angeles Institute wasn't particularly old, certainly not as old as other Institutes, but something about the attic felt ancient and dusty and cut off from the rest of the place. He reached the door at the foot of the stairs. He leaned for a moment against the wall, in the dimness and silence. Silence was something he had rarely, unless he was going to sleep. He was usually surrounded by the constant chatter of his siblings. He had them around him always, wanting his attention, needing his help. He thought too of the cottage in England, the quiet buzzing of the bees in the garden, the hush under the trees. Everything green and blue, so different from the desert and its dry browns and sere golds. He hadn't wanted to leave Emma, but at the same time he'd thought it would help. Like an addict getting away from the source of his addiction. Enough. There were some things there was no point thinking about. In the dark and the shadows where secrets lived, that was where Julian survived. It was how he had managed for years. Taking a deep breath, he went back out into the hallway. Emma was standing on the beach. There was no one else there; it was entirely deserted. Vast tracts of sand spread out on either side of her, dully sparkling with shards of mica underneath a clouded sun. The ocean was before her. It was as beautiful and deadly as the creatures who lived inside it; the great white sharks with their rough, pale sides, the killer whales striped in black and white like an Edwardian garden chaise. Emma looked at the ocean and felt what she always felt: a mixture of yearning and terror, a desire to throw herself into the green cold that was like the desire to drive too fast, jump too high, leap into battle unarmed. Thanatos, Arthur would have called it. The heart's desire for death. The sea gave a great cry, like the cry of an animal, and began to draw back. It rushed away from her, leaving dying fish flopping in its wake, heaps of seaweed, the ruins of wrecked ships, the detritus of the bottom of the sea. Emma knew she should run, but she stood paralyzed as the water gathered itself up into a tower, a massive wall with clear sides--she could see helpless dolphins and flailing sharks caught in the boiling sides. She cried out and fell to her knees as she saw the bodies of her parents, prisoned in the rising water as if they were trapped in a massive coffin of glass, her mother limp and twitching, her father's hand reaching out to her through the foam and boil of the waves -- Emma sat bolt upright, reaching for Cortana, which was laid across her bedside table. Her hand slipped, though, and the sword rattled to the floor. She reached for the bedside lamp and snapped it on. Warm yellow light filled the room. She looked around, blinking. She had fallen asleep in her pajamas, on top of the covers. She threw her legs over the side of the bed, rubbing at her eyes. She'd lain down on the bed to wait for Jules, her closet door open, the light on. She'd wanted to show the new photos to Julian. She'd wanted to tell him everything, to hear his voice: soothing, familiar, loving. Hear him help her puzzle out what to do next. But Julian hadn't come. She stood up, grabbing up a sweater from the back of a chair. A quick glance at the clock on the bedside table told her it was nearly three in the morning. She grimaced and slipped out into the hallway. It was dark and silent. No bars of light under the doorways showed that anyone else was awake. She moved down the hall to Julian's room, pushed the door open, and slipped inside. She almost hadn't expected him to be there. She'd thought he might have gone to his studio--surely he'd missed painting there--but he was sprawled on his bed, asleep. The room was lighter than the hallway outside. The window faced the moon where it hung over the mountains, and the white illumination outlined everything in the room in silver. Julian's curling hair was a dark spill against the pillow, his dark lashes entirely black. They lay against his cheekbones, fine and soft as dusted soot. His arm was stretched behind his head, pulling his T-shirt up. She glanced away from the bare skin revealed under the hem and clambered onto the bed, reaching out for his shoulder. "Julian," she said softly. "Jules." He stirred, eyes opening slowly. In the moonlight they looked silvery- gray, like Ty's. "Emma," he said, his voice sounding blurry with sleep. I thought you were going to come to my room, she wanted to say, but she couldn't: He looked so tired, it melted her heart. She reached out to brush his hair out of his eyes, paused, and put her hand on his shoulder instead. He had rolled onto his side; she recognized the worn T-shirt and sweatpants he wore. His eyes were starting to flutter closed again. "Jules," she said impulsively. "Can I stay?" It was their code, the short version of the longer request: Stay and make me forget my nightmares. Stay and sleep next to me. Stay and chase the bad dreams away, the memories of blood, of dead parents, of Endarkened warriors with eyes like dead black coals. It was a request they'd both made, more than once. Since they were little kids, they'd crawled into each other's beds to sleep. Emma had once imagined their dreams mingling as they'd let go of consciousness together, sharing bits and pieces of each other's sleeping worlds. It was one of the things about being parabatai that made it a magic toward which she had yearned: In a way, it meant you were never alone. Waking and sleeping, in battle and out of it, you had someone twinned by your side, bound to your life and hopes and happiness, a near-perfect support. He moved aside, his eyes half-open, his voice muffled. "Stay." She crawled in under the covers beside him. He made room for her, his long body folding and unfolding, giving her space. In the depression his body had made, the sheets were warm and smelled like cloves and soap. She was still shivering. She moved an inch closer to him, feeling the heat radiating off his body. He slept on his back, one arm folded behind his head, his other hand flat against his stomach. His bracelets gleamed in the moonlight. He looked at her--she knew he'd seen her move toward him--and then his eyes flashed as he shut them deliberately, dark lashes sweeping down over his cheeks. His breathing began to even out almost immediately. He was asleep, but Emma lay awake, looking at him, at the way his chest rose and fell, a steady metronome. They didn't touch. They rarely did touch, sleeping in bed together. As kids they'd fought over the blankets, stacked books between them sometimes to settle arguments about who was encroaching on whose side of the bed. Now they'd learned to sleep in the same space, but they kept the distance of the books between them, a shared memory. She could hear the ocean pounding in the distance; she could see the green wall of water rising behind her eyelids in her dream. But it all seemed distant, the terrifying crash of waves drowned out by the soft breathing of her parabatai. One day she and Julian would both be married, to other people. There would be no crawling into each other's beds. There would be no exchanging of secrets at midnight. Their closeness wouldn't break, but it would bend and stretch into a new shape. She would have to learn to live with that. One day. But not quite yet. When Emma woke, Julian was gone. She sat up groggily. It was midmorning, later than she usually rose, and the room was lit with a pinkish-gold tinge. Julian's navy-blue sheets and blanket were tangled down at the foot of the bed. When Emma put her hand against his pillow, it was still warm--he must have just left. She pushed down her feeling of uneasiness that he'd gone without saying anything. He probably just hadn't wanted to wake her; Julian had always been an uneasy sleeper, and the time difference couldn't be helping. Telling herself it was no big deal, she went back to her room and changed into leggings and a T-shirt, and slid her feet into flip-flops. Normally she would have checked Julian's studio first, but she could see from a glance out the window that it was a bright, brilliant summer day. The sky was filled with the light brushstrokes of white cloud. The sea glimmered, the surface dancing with flecks of gold. In the distance Emma could see the black dots of surfers bobbing on the surface. She knew he'd missed the ocean--knew it from the few brief, infrequent texts and fire-messages he'd sent her while he was in England. She made her way through the Institute and down the path that led to the highway, then darted across it, dodging surfers' vans and luxury convertibles on their way to Nobu. He was exactly where she'd thought he'd be when she reached the beach: facing the water and the sun, the salt air lifting his hair and rippling the cloth of his T-shirt. She wondered how long he'd been standing there, hands in the pockets of his jeans. She took a hesitant step onto the damp sand. "Jules?" He turned to look at her. For a moment he looked dazzled, as if he were looking into the sun, though it was above them--Emma could feel its warmth, bright and hot on her back. He smiled. A wave of relief went through her. It was Julian's familiar smile, the one that lit up his face. She jogged down to the waterline: The tide was coming in, sliding up the beach to reach the tips of Julian's shoes. "You woke up early," she said, splashing through the shallows toward him. The water made silvery inroads into the sand. "It's almost noon," he said. His voice sounded ordinary, but he still looked different to Emma, strangely different: the shape of his face, his shoulders under his T-shirt. "What did you want to talk to me about?" "What?" Emma was caught temporarily off guard, both by the difference in him and the sudden question. "Last night," he said. "You said you wanted to talk to me. How about now?" "Okay." Emma looked up at the gulls wheeling overhead. "Let's go sit down. I don't want to get washed away when the tide comes in." They settled in farther up the beach, where the sand was warm from the sunlight. Emma kicked her shoes off to dig her toes in, exulting in the grainy feeling. Julian laughed. She looked at him sideways. "What is it?" "You and the beach," he said. "You love the sand, but you hate the water." "I know," she said, widening her eyes at him. "Isn't it ironic?" "It's not ironic. Irony is the unexpected outcome of an expected situation. This is just one of your quirks." "You shock me," Emma said, pulling out her phone. "I am shocked." "Sarcasm noted," he said, turning the phone over in his right hand. Cristina's photos from the previous night had loaded. As he ran his eyes over them, she explained how she'd followed the tip from Johnny Rook to the Sepulchre, the way she'd found the body, and Diana's scolding following Rook's visit to the Institute. As she spoke, she relaxed, her odd new awareness of Julian fading. This was normal, this was them the way they always were: talking, listening, working as parabatai. "I know these are the same markings," she finished. "I'm not out of my mind, am I?" Julian looked up at her. "No," he said. "But Diana thinks that if you look into this, it'll compromise the Clave's willingness to let Helen come home?" "Yeah." Emma hesitated, then reached out and took his hand. The sea-glass bracelet on his left wrist clinked musically. She felt his calluses against her fingers, as familiar to her as a map of her own bedroom. "I would never do anything to hurt Helen, or Mark, or you," she said. "If you think Diana's right, I won't--" She swallowed. "I'll leave it alone." Julian glanced down at their entwined fingers. He was still, but a pulse had started up at the base of his throat; she could see it beating, hard. It must have been the mention of his sister. "It's been five years," he said, and drew his hand back. He didn't yank it out of her grip or anything like that, just drew it back as he turned toward the water. A completely natural movement that nevertheless left her feeling awkward. "The Clave hasn't budged on letting Helen come home. They haven't budged on looking for Mark. And they haven't budged on considering that maybe your parents weren't killed by Sebastian either. It seems wrong to sacrifice finding out what happened to your family for a doomed hope." "Don't say it's doomed, Jules--" "There's another way of thinking about this too," he said, and she could practically see the gears turning in his quick brain. "If you actually solved this, if we solved this, the Clave would owe us. I believe you that whoever killed your parents, it wasn't Sebastian Morgenstern. We're looking at a demon or some other force that has the power to murder Shadowhunters and get away with it. If we defeated something like that. . ." Emma's head was starting to ache. Her ponytail holder was twisted hard into her hair; she reached up to loosen it. "Then they'd give us special treatment, you mean? Because everyone would be watching?" "They'd have to," Julian said. "If everyone knew what we did. And we could make sure everyone knew." He hesitated. "We do have connections." "You don't mean Jem, do you?" asked Emma. "Because I don't know how to reach him." "Not Jem and Tessa." "So Jace and Clary," Emma said. Jace Herondale and Clary Fairchild ran the New York Institute. They were some of the youngest Shadowhunters ever to hold such a senior position. Emma had been friends with Clary since she was twelve, when Clary had first followed her out of the Council Hall in Idris, the only person among all the Clave, it seemed, to care that she had lost her parents. Jace was probably one of the best Shadowhunters who had ever lived, purely in terms of fighting prowess. Clary had been born with a different talent: She could create runes. It was something no other Shadowhunter had ever been able to do. She had explained once to Emma that she couldn't force the runes that came to her--either they did or they didn't. Over the years she'd added several useful runes to the Gray Book--one for breathing underwater, another for running long distances, and a rather controversial one for birth control that had nevertheless quickly become the most often used rune in the lexicon. Everyone knew Jace and Clary. That was how it went when you saved the world. They were heroes to most--to Emma they were people who had held her hands during the darkest part of her life. "Yeah." Julian reached around, rubbed the back of his neck. He looked tired. There was a faint sheen to the skin under his eyes, as if it was stretched thin with exhaustion. He worried at his lip with his teeth, as he always did when he was anxious or bothered. "I mean, they were made some of the youngest heads of an Institute ever. And look at what the Clave did for Simon, and for Magnus and Alec. When you're a hero, they'll do a lot for you." Julian stood up, and Emma rose with him, pulling the band out of her ponytail. Her hair came free, tumbling in waves down her shoulders and her back. Julian looked at her quickly, and then away. "Jules--" she began. But he had already turned away, heading back toward the road. She shoved her feet into her shoes and caught up with him where the sand rose up toward the pavement. "Is everything okay?" "Of course. Here, sorry, I forgot to give you this back." He handed Emma her phone. "Look, the Clave makes their rules. And they live by their rules. But that doesn't mean that with the right pressure, the rules never change." "You're being cryptic." He smiled, the corners of his eyes crinkling. "They don't like letting Shadowhunters as young as we are get involved with serious issues. Never have. But Jace and Clary and Alec and Isabelle saved the world when they were our age. They were honored for it. Results-- that's what makes them change their minds." They had reached the highway. Emma looked up, toward the hills. The Institute was perched on a low bluff over the coast road. "Julian Blackthorn," she said as they crossed the highway. "You revolutionary, you." "So we'll look into this, but do it quietly," Julian said. "First move, compare the photos of the body you found to the photos of the bodies of your parents. Everyone will want to help. Don't worry." They were halfway up the Institute road. Cars were backed up even now, mundanes commuting to work downtown. Sunlight sparked off their windshields. "And if it turns out the markings are just gibberish, and it's some random lunatic on a murder spree?" "Couldn't be a spree. Sprees happen all at once, but in different locations. Like if you drive from place to place shooting people, that's a spree." "So what's this? A mass murder?" "Mass murders also all take place at the same time, but are in the same location," Julian said loftily, in the same tone he used when explaining to Tavvy why he couldn't have Cheerios for breakfast. "This is definitely a serial killer. That's when the murders are spaced out over time." "It's disturbing that you know this," Emma said. In front of the Institute, stretching to the edge of the bluff, was a sun-dried lawn, edged with sea grass and scrub brush. The family spent little time there: too close to the highway, unshaded, and overlaid with scratchy grass. "Dru's into true crime right now," Jules said. They'd reached the Institute stairs. "You wouldn't believe how much she told me about how to hide a body." Emma sprang past him, up three steps, and turned to look down. "I'm taller than you," she announced. It was a game they'd played when they were little--Emma always swearing she'd grow up taller than he was, finally giving up when he'd turned fourteen and shot up five inches. Julian looked up at her. The sun was shining directly into his eyes, overlaying the blue-green with gold, making them look like the patina that shone on the Roman glass Arthur collected. "Em," he said. "However much we might joke about it, you know I take this seriously. It's your parents. You deserve to know what happened." She felt a sudden lump in her throat. "This just feels different," she whispered. "I know how many times I've thought I found out something and it was nothing, or I've followed a false lead, but this feels like something else, Jules. This feels real." Her phone rang. She looked away from Jules, fishing it out of her pocket. When she saw the name flash up on-screen she made a face and shoved it back. Jules raised an eyebrow, his expression neutral. "Cameron Ashdown?" he said. "Why aren't you picking up?" "Just not in the mood." The words came out almost to her surprise; she wondered why she wasn't telling him. Cameron and I broke up. The front door banged open. "Emma! Jules!" It was Drusilla and Tavvy, both still in pajamas. Tavvy had a lollipop in one hand and was sucking on it industriously. When he saw Emma, his eyes lit up and he ran toward her. "Emma!" he said around the candy. She pulled him close and wrapped her arms around his round little- boy middle, squeezing until he giggled. "Tavvy!" Julian said. "Don't run with lollipops in your mouth. You could choke." Tavvy removed the lollipop and stared at it the way someone might stare at a loaded gun. "And die?" "Hideously," Julian said. "Fatally, fatally die." He turned to Drusilla, who had her hands on her hips. Her black pajamas were decorated with cartoon drawings of chain saws and skeletons. "What's up, Dru?" "It's Friday," Drusilla said. "Pancake day? You remember? You promised?" "Oh, right, I did." Julian tugged affectionately on one of his little sister's braids. "You go wake up Livvy and Ty, and I'll--" "They're already awake," Dru said. "They're in the kitchen. Waiting." She looked at him pointedly. Julian smiled. "Okay. I'll be right there." He picked Tavvy up and deposited him back in the entryway. "You two scoot along to the kitchen and reassure the twins before they get desperate and start trying to do the cooking themselves." They scampered off, giggling. Julian turned back to Emma with a sigh. "I have been lollipoped," he said, indicating where Tavvy had managed to leave a blue sugar circle at the collar of his shirt. "Badge of honor." Emma laughed. "See you in the kitchen. I need to shower." She darted up the steps, pausing at the open front door to look down at him. Framed against the blue sea and blue sky, his eyes looked like bits of the landscape. "Jules--was there something you wanted to ask me?" He glanced away, shaking his head. "No. Nothing at all." Someone was shaking Cristina by the shoulder. She woke up slowly, blinking. She'd been dreaming about home, about the heat of summer, the shade of the cool gardens of the Institute, the roses her mother cultivated in a climate not always friendly to the delicate flower. Yellow roses were preferred, because they had been the favorite flower of her most beloved writer, but roses of any color were necessary to illuminate the proud name of Rosales. Cristina had been walking in a garden, about to turn a corner, when she heard the murmur of familiar voices. She sped up, a smile spreading over her face. Jaime and Diego . . . Her oldest friend and her first love. Surely they would be happy to see her. She swung around the corner and stared. There was no one there. Just the echo of voices, the distant sound of a mocking laugh carried on the wind. The shade and petals faded away and Cristina looked up to find Emma leaning over her, wearing one of her crazy flowered dresses. Her hair hung down around her shoulders in strands damp from the shower. "iDeja de molestarme, estoy despierta!" protested Cristina, batting Emma's hands away. "Emma! Stop it! I'm awake!" She sat up and put her hands to her head. She prided herself on not ever mixing up her first language with English while she was in the U.S., but sometimes when she was tired or barely awake it slipped out. "Come with me to breakfast," Emma wheedled. "Or it might be brunch. It's almost noon. But whatever--I want to introduce you to everyone. I want you to meet Julian--" "I saw him last night from the top of the stairs," said Cristina with a yawn. "He has nice hands." "Great, you can tell him that in person." "No, thank you." "Get up," Emma said. "Or I'll sit on you." Cristina threw a pillow at her. "Go wait outside." A few minutes later, Cristina--having dressed quickly in a pale pink sweater and pencil skirt--found herself being marched down the hall. She could hear voices, raised in chatter, coming from the kitchen. She touched the medallion at her throat, the way she always did when she needed a bit of extra bravery. She'd heard so much about the Blackthorns, especially Julian, since she'd arrived at the Institute that they'd taken on an almost mythical status in her mind. She was dreading meeting them--not only were they the most important people in Emma's life, but they were also the ones who could make the rest of her stay either pleasant or miserable. The kitchen was a large room with painted walls and windows looking out over the blue-green ocean in the distance. A massive farmer's table dominated the space, surrounded by bench seats and chairs. The counters and table were tiled in what looked like bright Spanish designs, but if you glanced more closely, they formed scenes from classical literature: Jason and the Argonauts, Achilles and Patroclus, Odysseus and the Sirens. Someone, once, had decorated this space with a loving hand--someone had picked out the copper cooking range, the porcelain double sinks, the exact shade of yellow on the walls. Julian was standing over the stove, barefoot, a dish towel slung around his broad shoulders. The younger Blackthorns were crowded around the table. Emma came forward, pulling Cristina behind her. "Everyone, this is Cristina," she said. "She's saved my life about sixteen times this summer, so be nice to her. Cristina, this is Julian--" Julian looked over and smiled. The smile made him look like sunlight in human form. It didn't hurt that the dish towel around his neck had kittens on it, and there was pancake batter on his calloused hands. "Thanks for not letting Emma get killed," he said. "Contrary to whatever she might have told you, we need her around here." "I'm Livvy." The pretty girl who was one half of the twins came forward to shake Cristina's hand. "And that's Ty." She pointed to a boy with black hair who was curled up on a bench seat reading The Case-Book of Sherlock Holmes. "Dru has the braids, and Tavvy is the one with the lollipop." "Don't run with a lollipop, Cristina," said Tavvy. He looked around seven, with a thin, serious face. "I . . . won't?" Cristina assured him, puzzled. "Tavvy," Julian groaned. He was pouring batter from a white ceramic pitcher into the frying pan on the stove. The room filled with the smell of butter and pancakes. "Get up and set the table, you useless layabouts-- not you, Cristina," he added, looking embarrassed. "You're a guest." "I'll be here for a year. I'm not really a guest," Cristina said, and went with the rest of them to get cutlery and plates. There was a buzz of pleasant activity, and Cristina felt herself relax. If she had to admit it, she'd been dreading the Blackthorns descending, disrupting the pleasant rhythm of her life here with Emma and Diana. Now that the family was here, here and real, she felt guilty for having resented them. "First pancakes are up," Julian announced. Ty put down his book and picked up a plate. Cristina, reaching into the refrigerator for more butter, heard him say to Julian, "I thought you forgot it was pancake day." There was accusation in his voice, and something else besides--a slight edge of nervousness? She remembered Emma saying in passing that Ty got upset when his routine was interrupted. "I didn't forget, Ty," Julian said gently. "I was distracted. But I didn't forget." Ty seemed to relax. "All right." He went back over to the table, and Tavvy bounded up after him. They were organized, the Blackthorns, in the unconscious way that only a family could be: knowing who got pancakes first (Ty), who wanted butter and syrup (Dru), who wanted just syrup (Livvy), and who wanted sugar (Emma). Cristina ate hers plain. It was buttery and not too sweet, crisp around the edges. "These are good," she said to Julian, who had finally sat down on a bench seat beside Emma. Up close she could see lines of tiredness at the edges of his eyes, lines that seemed out of place on the face of a boy so young. "Practice." He smiled at her. "I've been making them since I was twelve." Livvy gave a bounce in her seat. She was wearing a black tank dress and reminded Cristina of the stylish mundane girls in Mexico City, striding purposefully around Condesa and Roma in their sheath dresses and delicate strappy heels. Her brown hair was streaked liberally with gold where the sun had bleached it. "It's so good to be back," she said, licking syrup off her finger. "It just wasn't the same at Great-Aunt Marjorie's without you two looking after us." She pointed at Emma and Julian. "I see why they say you shouldn't separate parabatai, you just go together, like--" "Sherlock Holmes and Dr. Watson," said Ty, who had gone back to reading. "Chocolate and peanut butter," said Tavvy. "Captain Ahab and the whale," said Dru, who was dreamily drawing patterns in the syrup on her empty plate. Emma choked on her juice. "Dru, the whale and Captain Ahab were enemies." "True," Julian agreed. "The whale without Ahab is just a whale. A whale with no problems. A stress-free whale." Dm looked mutinous. "I heard you guys talking," she said to Emma and Julian. "I was out on the lawn, before I went back in to get Tavvy. About Emma finding a body?" Ty looked up immediately. "Emma found a body?" Emma glanced a little worriedly at Tavvy, but he appeared absorbed in his food. She said, "Well, while you guys were gone, there've been a series of murders--" "Murders? How come you didn't say anything to Julian or us about it?" Ty was bolt upright now, his book dangling from his hand. "You could have sent an e-mail or a fire-message or a postcard--" "A murder postcard?" said Livvy, wrinkling up her nose. "I only found out about it the night before last," Emma said, and explained quickly what had happened at the Sepulchre. "The body was covered in runes," she finished. "The same kind of markings that were on my parents' bodies when they were found." "No one's ever been able to translate those, right?" Livvy said. "No one." Emma shook her head. "Everyone's tried to decode them. Malcolm, Diana, even the Spiral Labyrinth," she added, naming the underground headquarters of the world's warlocks, where a great deal of arcane knowledge was hidden. "Before, they were unique as far as we knew," Ty said. His eyes were really a very startling gray, like the back of a silver spoon. A pair of headphones hung around his neck, the cord snaking down into his shirt. "Now there's another example. If we compare them, we might learn something." "I made a list of everything I know about the body," Emma said, producing a piece of paper and setting it on the table. Ty picked it up immediately. "Some is what I saw, some I heard from Johnny Rook and Diana. The fingertips were sanded down, teeth broken, wallet missing." "Someone trying to hide the identity of the victim," said Ty. "And probably not that uncommon," said Emma. "But there was also the fact that the body was soaked in seawater and showed signs of burning, and was lying in a chalked ring of symbols. And was covered in writing. That seems unusual." "Like the sort of thing you could search for in back archives of mundane newspaper articles," said Ty. His gray eyes glowed with excitement. "I'll do it." "Thank you," Emma said. "But--" She glanced toward Julian, and then around at the others, her brown eyes grave. "Diana can't know, okay?" "Why not?" asked Dru, frowning. Tavvy was paying no attention at all; he'd gotten down on the floor and was playing under the table with a set of toy trucks. Emma sighed. "Several of the dead bodies were fey. And that puts this squarely out of any territory we should be messing with." She glanced over at Cristina. "If you don't want to do any of this, that's fine. Faerie business is tricky and Diana doesn't want us involved." "You know how I feel about the Cold Peace," said Cristina. "Absolutely I will help." There was a murmer of agreement. "Told you not to worry," Julian said, touching Emma's shoulder lightly before standing up to start clearing the breakfast dishes. There was something about that touch--light and casual as it was, it sent a jolt through Cristina. "You've got today off from classes, Diana's gone up to Ojai, so now's a good time for us to do this. Especially since we've got Clave testing this weekend." There was a collective groan. Clave testing was a twice-yearly chore in which students were evaluated to see if their skills were up to par or if they needed to be sent to the Academy in Idris. But Ty ignored Julian's announcement. He was looking at Emma's paper. "How many have died, exactly? People and faeries?" "Twelve," said Emma. "Twelve dead bodies." Tavvy emerged from under the table. "Were they all running with lollipops?" Ty looked baffled, Emma guilty, Tavvy slightly lip-wobbly. "Maybe that's enough for now," Julian said, scooping up his smallest brother. "Let's see what you find out, Tiberius, Livia?" Ty murmured assent, rising to his feet. Emma said, "Cristina and I were going to practice, but we can--" "No! Don't cancel it!" Livvy bounced upright. "I need to practice! With another girl. Who isn't reading," she said, shooting a glare at Dru. "Or watching a horror movie." She glanced over at her twin. "I'll help Ty for half an hour," she said. "Then I'll come to train." He nodded and slipped his headphones on, making his way toward the door. Livvy went with him, chattering about how she'd missed training and her saber, and about how their great-aunt's idea of a training room was her barn, which was full of spiders. Cristina glanced back as she left the kitchen. The room was full of bright light, and it cast an odd halo over Emma and Julian, blurring out their features. Julian was holding Tavvy, and as Emma leaned in they made up an odd family picture. "You don't have to do this for me," Emma was saying, softly but earnestly, in a voice Cristina had never heard her use before. "I think I do," Julian said. "I think I remember making a vow to that effect." '"Whither thou goest, I will go, whatever stupid thing you do, I shall do also'?" Emma said. "Was that the vow?" Julian laughed. If there were more words between the two, Cristina didn't hear them spoken. She let the door close behind her without looking back again. She had once thought she would have a parabatai herself; though it was a dream she had long put to bed, there was something about that sort of intimacy that was painful to overhear. <|title|>Chapter 4: And This Was the Reason <|startofchapter|>Emma hit the training mat hard, rolling quickly so that Cortana, still strapped to her back, wouldn't be damaged--or damage her. In the early years of her training she'd inflicted more injuries on herself by accident with Cortana's sharp edges than any exercises had, thanks to her stubborn refusal to take it off. Cortana was hers, her father's, and her father's father's. She and Cortana were what was left of the Carstairs family. She never left the blade behind when she went to fight, even if they planned to use daggers or holy water or fire. Therefore she needed to know how to fight with it strapped to her in every conceivable circumstance. "Are you all right?'' Cristina hit the mat beside her more lightly; she wasn't armed, and was wearing only her training clothes. Cristina had sense, Emma thought, sitting up and rubbing her sore shoulder. "Fine." Emma stood up, shaking out the kinks in her muscles. "One more time." The medal around Cristina's throat gleamed decorously as she craned her head back, watching Emma shinny back up the rope ladder. Dark gold sunlight was pouring through the windows--it was late afternoon. They'd been training for hours, and before that they'd been busy bringing the contents of Emma's Wall of Proof (Cristina refused to call it a Wall of Crazy) into the computer room so Livvy and Ty could scan it all. Livvy was still promising to come train with them, though she'd clearly been absorbed into the online search for clues. "You can stop there," Cristina called when Emma was halfway up, but Emma ignored her and kept going, until her head was nearly bumping the ceiling. Emma looked down. Cristina was shaking her head, managing to look both composed and disapproving at the same time. "You can't jump from such a height! Emma--'' Emma let go and dropped like a stone. She hit the mat, rolled, and sprang up into a crouch, reaching back over her shoulder for Cortana. Her hand closed on empty air. She shot upright, only to find Cristina holding the blade. She'd slipped it from Emma's scabbard as she was rising to her feet. "There is more to fighting than jumping the highest and falling the farthest," Cristina said, and held Cortana out to her. Emma rose and took the blade back with a grudging smile. "You sound like Jules." "Maybe he has a point," Cristina said. "Have you always been this careless about your safety?" "More since the Dark War." Emma slipped Cortana back into its scabbard. She drew the stiletto blades from her boots and handed one to Cristina before turning to face the target painted on the opposite wall. Cristina moved to Emma's side and raised the blade in her hand, sighting down along the line of her arm. Emma hadn't thrown knives with Cristina before, but she was unsurprised to see that Cristina's posture and grip on the knife--her thumb parallel to the blade--were perfect. "Sometimes I regret that I knew little of the war. I was in hiding in Mexico. My uncle Tomas was convinced Idris would not be safe." Emma thought of Idris burning, of the blood in the streets, bodies stacked like kindling in the Accords Hall. "Your uncle was right." "He died in the war, so I suppose he was." Cristina released her blade; it flew through the air and thumped into the central ring of the target. "My mother owned a house in San Miguel de Allende. We went there, because the Institute was not safe. I always feel a coward when I think about it." "You were a kid," Emma said. "They were right to send you where you would be safe." "Maybe," said Cristina, looking downcast. "Really. I'm not just saying that," Emma told her. "I mean, how does Perfect Diego feel about it? Does he feel like a coward?" Cristina made a face, "I doubt it." "Of course not. He's totally well-adjusted about everything. We should all be more like Perfect Diego." "Hello!" A greeting rang through the room, it was Livvy, in practice gear, heading toward them. She paused to pet her saber, which was hanging on the wail near the door with the other fencing swords. Livvy had chosen the saber for her weapon when she was about twelve years old and had practiced tenaciously ever since. She could discourse on types of saber, wooden grips versus rubber or leather ones, tangs and pommels, and it was better not to get her started on pistol grips. Emma admired her loyalty. She'd never felt a need to pick a weapon: Hers was always Cortana. But she liked to be at least competent in everything, so she'd sparred with Livvy more than once. "I missed you," Livvy crooned to the saber, "I love you so much." "That was heartfelt," Emma said, "if you'd said that to me when you got back, I would have cried." Livvy abandoned the saber and bounced over toward them. She commandeered a mat and began to stretch her muscles. She could fold herself easily in half, tucking her fingers under her toes, "I did miss you," she said, voice muffled, "it was boring in England and there were no cute boys." "Julian said there were no humans for miles," said Emma. "Anyway, it's not like you missed anything here." "Well, aside from the serial killings," Livvy said, moving across the room to take up two throwing knives. Emma and Cristina moved out of the way as she lined herself up across from the target. "And I bet you dated Cameron Ashdown again, then dumped him." "She did," said Cristina. Emma shot her a look that said traitor. "Ha!" Livvy's knife went wide of the target. She turned around, her braid bouncing on her shoulders. "Emma goes out with him, like, every four months, then dumps him." "Oh?" Cristina cut a glance toward Emma. "Why has he been singled out for this special torture?" "Oh, for goodness' sake," Emma said. "It wasn't serious." "Not to you," said Livvy. "Bet it was to him." She held out her second knife to Cristina. "Want a try?" Cristina took the knife and moved into Livvy's position. "Who's Perfect Diego?" Livvy asked. Cristina had been frowning at the knife; now she turned around and gaped at Livvy. "I heard you," Livvy said cheerfully. "Before I came in. Who is he? Why's he so perfect? Why is there a perfect boy in the world and no one's told me?" "Diego is the boy Cristina's mother wants her to marry," Emma told Livvy. Now it was Cristina's turn to look betrayed. "It's not an arranged marriage, that would be gross; it's just that her mother loves him, his mother carried the Rosales name--" "He's related to you?" Livvy asked Cristina. "Isn't that a problem? I mean, I know Clary Fairchild and Jace Herondale are a famous love story, but they weren't actually brother and sister. Ctherwise I think it would probably be a ..." "Less famous love story," said Emma with a grin. Cristina threw her knife. It hit close to the target's center. "His full name is Diego Rocio Rosales--Rocio is his father's last name, and Rosales his mother's, just like my mother's last name is Rosales. But that doesn't mean we're even cousins. The Rosaleses are a huge Shadowhunting family. My mother just thinks he's perfect, so handsome, so smart, such a Shadowhunter, perfect perfect perfect--" "And now you know how he got his nickname," said Emma, going to retrieve the knives from the wall. "Is he perfect?" Livvy asked. "No," Cristina said. When Cristina was upset, she didn't get angry; she just stopped talking. She was doing that now, staring at the target painted on the wall. Emma spun the knives she'd retrieved in her hands. "We'll protect you from Perfect Diego," Emma said. "If he comes here, I'll impale him." She moved toward the throwing line. "Emma's a master of the impalement arts," Livvy said. "You'd be better off impaling my mother," Cristina muttered. "All right, flaquita, impress me. Let's see you throw two at a time." A knife in each hand, Emma took a step back from the throwing line. She had taught herself to throw two knives at once over the course of a year, throwing again and again, the sound of the blades splitting the wood a balm to shattered nerves. She was left-handed, so normally would have taken a step back and to the right, but she'd forced herself to be nearly ambidextrous. Her step back was direct, not diagonal. Her arms went back and then forward; she opened her hands and the knives flew like falcons whose jesses had been cut. They soared toward the target and thudded, one after the other, into its heart. Cristina whistled. "I see why Cameron Ashdown keeps coming back. He's afraid not to." She went to retrieve the knives, including her own. "Now I am going to try again. I see that I am far behind where I should be." Emma laughed. "No, I was cheating. I practiced that move for years." "Still," Cristina said, "if you ever change your mind and decide you don't like me. I'd better be able to defend myself." "Good throw," Livvy said in a whisper, coming up behind Emma as Cristina, several feet away, paced back and forth at the throwing line. "Thanks," Emma whispered back. Leaning against a rack of gloves and protective gear, she glanced down into Livvy's sunny face. "Did you get anywhere with Ty? And the parabatai thing?" she inquired, almost dreading the answer. Livvy's face clouded. "He still says no. It's the only thing we've ever disagreed about." "I'm sorry." Emma knew how badly Livvy wanted to be parabatai with her twin. Brothers and sisters who became parabatai were unusual but not unheard of. Ty's stark refusal was surprising, though. He rarely said no to Livvy about anything, but he was obdurate about this. Cristina's first blade slammed home, just at the rim of the target's inside circle. Emma cheered. "I like her," Livvy said, still in a whisper. "Good," Emma said. "I like her too." "And I think Perfect Diego maybe broke her heart." "He did something," Emma said guardedly. "That much I've guessed." "So I think we should set her up with Julian." Emma almost overturned the rack. "What?" Livvy shrugged. "She's pretty, and she seems really nice, and she's going to be living with us. And Jules hasn't ever had a girlfriend--you know why." Emma just stared. Her head seemed full of white noise. "I mean, it's our fault --mine and Ty's, and Dru's and Tavvy's. Raising four kids, you don't exactly have a lot of time to date. So since we sort of took having a girlfriend away from him . . ." "You want to set him up," Emma said blankly. "I mean, it doesn't work like that, Livvy. They'd have to like each other. . . ." "I think they could," said Livvy. "If we gave them a chance. What do you say?" Her blue-green eyes, so much like Julian's, were full of affectionate mischief. Emma opened her mouth to say something, she didn't know what, when Cristina let her second knife go. It slammed into the wall so hard that the wood seemed to crack. Livvy clapped her hands. "Awesome!" She shot Emma a triumphant look, as if to say See, she's perfect. She glanced at her watch. "Okay, I have to go help Ty some more. Yell for me if anything awesomely exciting happens." Emma nodded, a little stunned, as Livvy danced away to hang up her weapons and head for the library. She was nearly startled out of her skin when a voice spoke from just over her shoulder--Cristina had come up behind her and was looking worried. "What were you two talking about?" she asked. "You look like you've seen a ghost." Emma opened her mouth to say something, but never found out what, because at that moment, a commotion burst out from downstairs. She could hear the sound of someone pounding on the front door, followed by running feet. Catching up Cortana, Emma was out the door in a flash. The pounding on the front door of the Institute echoed through the building. "Just a minute!" Julian yelled, zipping up his hoodie as he jogged toward the door. He was almost glad someone had shown up. Ty and Livvy had ordered him out of the computer room with the announcement that Julian was wrecking their concentration by pacing, and he'd been bored enough to consider going to check on Arthur, which he was fairly sure would put him in a bad mood for the rest of the day. Julian swung the door open. A tall, pale-haired man lounged on the other side, wearing tight black pants and a shirt unbuttoned halfway down his chest. A plaid jacket hung from his shoulders. "You look like a strip-o-gram," Julian said to Malcolm Fade, High Warlock of Los Angeles. There had been a time when Julian had been so impressed by the fact that Malcolm was High Warlock--the warlock to whom all other warlocks answered, at least in Southern California--that he'd been nervous around him. That had passed after the Dark War, when visits from Malcolm had become commonplace. Malcolm was in reality what most people thought Arthur was: an absentminded professor type. He had been forgetting important things for almost two hundred years. All warlocks, being the offspring of human beings and demons, were immortal. They stopped aging at different points in their lives, depending on their demon parents. Malcolm looked as if he had stopped aging at about twenty-seven, but he had been (he claimed) born in 1850. Since most of the demons Julian had ever seen had been disgusting, he didn't like to think too much about how Malcolm's parents had met. Malcolm didn't seem inclined to share, either. Julian knew he'd been born in England, and he still had traces of the accent. "You can mail someone a stripper?" Malcolm looked bemused, then glanced down at himself. "Sorry, I forgot to button my shirt before I left the house." He took a step inside the Institute and instantly fell over, sprawling lengthwise on the tiles. Julian moved aside and Malcolm rolled onto his back, looking disgruntled. He peered down his long body. "I seem to have also tied my shoelaces together." Sometimes it was hard not to feel bitter, Julian reflected, that all the allies and friends in his life were either people he had to lie to, ridiculous, or both. Emma came rushing down the staircase, Cortana in her hand. She was wearing jeans and a tank top; her damp hair was pulled back in an elastic band. The tank top was sticking to her skin, which Julian wished he hadn't noticed. She slowed down as she approached, relaxing. "Hey, Malcolm. Why are you on the floor?" "I tied my shoelaces together," he said. Emma had reached his side. She brought Cortana down, neatly severing Malcolm's shoelaces in half and freeing up his feet. "There you go," she said. Malcolm looked warily at her. "She may be dangerous," he said to Julian. "Then again, all women are dangerous." "All people are dangerous," said Julian. "Why are you here, Malcolm? Not that I'm not pleased to see you." Malcolm staggered to his feet, buttoning his shirt. "I brought Arthur's medicine." Julian's heart thumped so loudly he was sure he could hear it. Emma frowned. "Has Arthur not been feeling well?" she asked. Malcolm, who had been reaching into his pocket, froze. Julian saw the realization dawn on his face that he'd said something he shouldn't, and he silently cursed Malcolm and his forgetfulness a thousand times. "Arthur told me last night he's been under the weather," Julian said. "Just the usual stuff bothering him. It's chronic. Anyway, he was feeling low on energy." "I would have looked for something at the Shadow Market if I'd known," Emma said, sitting down on the bottom step of the staircase and stretching out her long legs. "Cayenne pepper and dragon's blood," said Malcolm, retrieving a vial from his pocket and proffering it to Julian. "Should wake him right up." "That would wake the dead up," said Emma. "Necromancy is illegal, Emma Carstairs," scolded Malcolm. "She was just joking." Julian pocketed the vial, keeping his gaze fixed on Malcolm, silently begging him not to say anything. "When did you have a chance to tell Malcolm that your uncle wasn't feeling well, Jules? I saw you last night and you didn't say anything," Emma said. Julian was glad he was facing away from Emma; he was sure he'd gone white. "Vampire pizza," Malcolm said. "What?" Emma said. "Nightshade's opened up an Italian place on Cross Creek Road," Malcolm said. "Best pizza for miles, and they deliver." "Don't you worry about what's in the sauce?" Emma asked, clearly diverted. "Oh!" Her hand flew to her mouth. "That reminds me, Malcolm. I was wondering if there was something you'd look at." "Is it a wart?" said Malcolm. "I can cure that, but it'll cost you." "Why does everyone always think it's a wart?" Emma pulled her phone out and in a few seconds was showing him the photos of the body she'd found at the Sepulchre Bar. "There were these white markings, here and here," she said, pointing. "They look like graffiti, not paint but chalk or something like that...." "First, gross," Malcolm said. "Please don't show me pictures of dead bodies without a warning." He peered closer. "Second, those look like remnants of a ceremonial circle. Someone drew a protective ring on the ground. Maybe to protect themselves while they were casting whatever nasty spell killed this guy." "He was burned," Emma said. "And drowned, I think. At least, his clothes were wet and he smelled like salt water." She was frowning, her eyes dark. It could have been the memory of the body, or just the thought of the ocean. It was an ocean she lived across from, ran beside every day, but Julian knew how much it terrified her. She could force herself into it, sick and shaking, but he hated watching her do it, hated watching his strong Emma torn to shreds by the terror of something so primal and nameless she couldn't explain it even to herself. It made him want to kill things, destroy things to keep her safe. Even though she could keep herself safe. Even though she was the bravest person he knew. Julian snapped back to the present. "Forward me the photos," Malcolm was saying. "I'll look them over more closely and let you know." "Hey!" Livvy appeared at the top of the stairs, having changed out of her training gear. "Ty found something. About the killings." Malcolm looked puzzled. "On the computer," Livvy elaborated. "You know, the one we're not supposed to have. Oh, hi, Malcolm." She waved vigorously. "You guys should come upstairs." "Would you stay, Malcolm?" Emma asked, scrambling to her feet. "We could use your help." "That depends," Malcolm said. "Does the computer play movies?" "It can play movies," said Julian cautiously. Malcolm looked pleased. "Can we watch Notting Hill" "We can watch anything, if you're willing to help," Emma said. She glanced at Jules. "And we can find out what Ty discovered. You're coming, right?" Silently Julian cursed Malcolm's love of romantic movies. He wished he could head to his studio and paint. But he couldn't exactly avoid Ty or abandon Malcolm. "I could get snacks from the kitchen," Emma said, sounding hopeful. After all, for years it had been their habit to watch old movies on their witchlight-powered TV, eating popcorn by the flickering illumination. Julian shook his head. "I'm not hungry." He almost thought he could hear Emma sigh. A moment later she disappeared after Livvy, up the stairs. Julian made as if to follow them, but Malcolm stopped him with a hand on his shoulder. "It's gotten worse, hasn't it?" he said. "Uncle Arthur?" Jules was caught off guard. "I don't think so. I mean, it's not great that I haven't been here, but if we'd kept refusing to go to England, someone would have gotten suspicious." "Not Arthur," said Malcolm. "You. Does she know about you?" "Does who know what?" "Don't be dense," Malcolm said. "Emma. Does she know?" Julian felt his heart wrench inside his chest. He had no words for the feeling of upheaval Malcolm's words caused. It was too much like being tumbled by a wave, solid footing giving way in the slide of sand. "Stop." "I won't," Malcolm said. "I like happy endings." Julian spoke through his teeth. "Malcolm, this is not a love story." "Every story is a love story." Julian drew away from him and started toward the stairs. He was rarely actually angry at Malcolm, but right now his heart was pounding. He made it to the landing before Malcolm called after him; he turned, knowing he shouldn't, and found the warlock looking up at him. "Laws are meaningless, child," Malcolm said in a low voice that somehow still carried. "There is nothing more important than love. And no law higher." Technically, the Institute wasn't supposed to have a computer in it. The Clave resisted the advent of modernity but even more so any engagement with mundane culture. But that had never stopped Tiberius. He'd started asking for a computer at the age of ten so that he could keep up to date on violent mundane crimes, and when they'd come back from Idris, after the Dark War, Julian had given him one. Ty had lost his mother and father, his brother, and his older sister, Jules had said at the time, sitting on the floor amid a tangle of wires, trying to figure out how to plug the computer into one of the few electrical outlets they had; almost everything in the Institute ran on witchlight. If he could give this to Ty, at least it would be something. And indeed, Ty loved the computer. He named it Watson and spent hours teaching himself how to use it, since no one else had a clue. Julian told him not to do anything illegal; Arthur, locked away in his study, didn't notice. Livvy, ever dedicated to her sibling, had also taught herself to use it, with Ty's help, once he'd familiarized himself with how it worked. Together they were a formidable team. It looked like Ty, Dru, Livvy, and even Tavvy had been busy. Dru had spread maps all over the floor. Tavvy was standing by a whiteboard with a blue dry-erase marker, making possibly helpful notations, if they could ever be translated out of seven-year-old. Ty was seated at the swivel chair in front of the computer, his fingers moving swiftly over the keyboard. Livvy was perched on the desk, as she often was; Ty worked around her, completely aware of where she was while at the same time focusing on the task at hand. "So, you found something?" Julian said as they came in. "Yes. Just a second." Ty held up his hand imperiously. "You can talk to each other if you like." Julian grinned. "That's very kind." Cristina came hurrying in, braiding her damp, dark hair. She'd clearly showered and re-dressed, in jeans and a flowered blouse. "Livvy told me--" "Shh." Emma put her finger to her lips and indicated Ty, staring intently at the computer's blue screen. It lit up his delicate features. She loved the moments when Ty was playing detective; he so clearly fell into the part, into the dream of being Sherlock Holmes, who always had all the answers. Cristina nodded and sat down on the overstuffed love seat beside Drusilla. Dru was nearly as tall as she was, despite being only thirteen. She was one of those girls whose body had grown up quickly: She had breasts and hips, was soft and curvy. It had led to some awkward moments with boys who thought she was seventeen or eighteen years old, and a few incidents where Emma had barely stopped Julian from murdering a mundane teenager. Malcolm settled himself in a patched armchair. "Well, if we're waiting," he said, and began typing on his phone. "What are you doing?" Emma asked. "Ordering pizza from Nightshade's," said Malcolm. "There's an app." "A what?" said Dru. "Nightshade?" Livvy turned around. "The vampire?" "He owns a pizza place. The sauce is divine," Malcolm said, kissing his fingers. "Aren't you worried what's in it?" said Livvy. "You Nephilim are so paranoid," said Malcolm, returning to his phone. Ty cleared his throat, spinning his chair back around to face the room. Everyone had settled themselves on couches or chairs except Tavvy, who was sitting on the floor under the whiteboard. "I've found some stuff," he said. "There definitely have been bodies that fit Emma's description. Fingerprints sanded off, soaked in seawater, skin burned." He pulled up the front page of a newspaper on-screen. "Mundanes think it's satanic cult activity, because of the chalk markings found around the bodies." "Mundanes think everything is satanic cult activity," said Malcolm. "Most cults are actually in service of completely different demons than Lucifer. He's quite famous and very hard to reach. Rarely does favors for anyone. Really an unrewarding demon to worship." Emma and Julian exchanged looks of amusement. Ty clicked the computer mouse, and pictures flashed up on the screen. Faces-- different ages, races, genders. All of them slack in death. "There are only a few murders that match the profile," said Ty. He seemed pleased to be using the word "profile." "There's been one every month for the past year. Twelve counting the one Emma found, like she said." Emma said, "But nothing before a year ago?" Ty shook his head. "So, there was a gap of four years since my parents were killed. Whoever it was--if it was the same person--stopped and started up again." "Is there anything that links all these people?" Julian asked. "Diana said some of the bodies were fey." "Well, this is all mundane news," said Livvy. "They wouldn't know, would they? They'd think the bodies were human, if they were gentry fey. As for anything linking them, none of them have been identified." "That's weird," said Dru. "What about blood? In movies they can identify people using blood and DTR." "DNA," corrected Ty. "Well, according to the newspapers none of the bodies were identified. It could have been that whatever spells were done on them altered their blood. Or they could have decayed fast, like Emma's parents did. That would have limited what the coroners could have found out." "There is something else, though," Livvy said. "The stories all reported where the bodies were found, and we mapped them. They have one thing in common." Ty had taken one of his hand toys out of his pocket, a mass of intermingled pipe cleaners, and was untangling it. Ty had one of the fastest-working minds of anyone Emma knew, and it calmed him to have a way to use his hands to diffuse some of that quickness and intensity. "The bodies have all been dumped at ley lines. All of them," he said, and Emma could hear the excitement in his voice. "Ley lines?" Dru furrowed her brow. "There's a network, circling the world, of ancient magical pathways," said Malcolm. "They amplify magic, so for centuries Downworlders have used them to create entrances into Faerie, that sort of thing. Alicante is built on a convergence of ley lines. They're invisible, but some can train themselves to sense them." He frowned, staring at the computer screen, where one of the images Cristina had taken of the dead body at the Sepulchre was displayed. "Can you do that thing?" he said. "You know, where you make the picture bigger?" "You mean zoom in?" said Ty. Before Malcolm could answer, the doorbell of the Institute rang. It was no ordinary, shrilling doorbell. It sounded like a gong being struck through the building, shivering the glass and stone and plaster. Emma was up and on her feet in a second. "I'll get it," she said, and hurried downstairs, even as Julian half-rose from his seat to follow her. But she wanted to be alone, just for a second. Wanted to process the fact that these killings dated back to the year of her parents' death. They had started then. Her father and mother had been the first. These murders were connected. She could see the threads coming together, forming a pattern she could only begin to glimpse but knew was real. Someone had done these things. Someone had tortured and killed her parents, had carved evil markings on their skin and dumped them in the ocean to rot. Someone had taken Emma's childhood, torn away the roof and walls of the house of her life, leaving her cold and exposed. And that someone would pay. Revenge is a cold bedfellow, Diana had said, but Emma didn't believe that. Revenge would give her the air back in her lungs. Revenge would let her think about her parents without a cold knot forming in her stomach. She would be able to dream without seeing their drowned faces and hearing their voices cry out for her help. She reached the front door of the Institute and threw it open. The sun had just set. A glum vampire stood in the doorway, carrying several stacked boxes. He looked like a teenager with short brown hair and freckled skin, but that didn't mean much. "Pizza delivery," he said in a tone that suggested that most of his closest relatives had just died. "Seriously?" Emma said. "Malcolm wasn't making that up? You really deliver pizza?" He looked at her blankly. "Why wouldn't I deliver pizza?" Emma fumbled at the small table near the door for the cash they usually kept there. "I don't know. You're a vampire. I figured you'd have something better to do with your life. Your unlife. Whatever." The vampire looked aggrieved. "You know how hard it is to get a job when your ID says you're a hundred and fifty years old and you can only go out at night?" "No," Emma admitted, taking the boxes. "I hadn't considered that." "Nephilim never do." As he tucked a fifty into his jeans, Emma noticed that he was wearing a gray T-shirt that said tmi across the front. "Too much information?" she said. He brightened. "The Mortal Instruments. They're a band. From Brooklyn. You heard of them?" Emma had. Clary's best friend and parabatai, Simon, had belonged to them when he was a mundane. That was how they'd wound up named after the three most holy objects in the Shadowhunter world. Now Simon, too, was a Shadowhunter. She wondered how he felt about the band going on without him. About everything going on without him. She made her way back up the stairs, her mind on Clary and the others in the New York Institute. Clary had found out she was a Shadowhunter when she was fifteen years old. There had been a time when she thought she'd lead a mundane life. She'd talked about it before, around Emma, the way anyone might talk about a road not taken. She'd carried a lot with her into her Shadowhunter life, including her best friend, Simon. But she could have chosen differently. She could have been a mundane. Emma wanted to talk to her, suddenly, about what that might have meant. Simon had been Clary's best friend for her whole life, like Jules had been Emma's. Then they had been parabatai, once Simon was a Shadowhunter. What had changed? Emma wondered. What did it feel like to go from best friend to parabatai without having always known you were going to do it, how was it different? And why didn't she know the answer to that herself? When she arrived back in the computer room, Malcolm was standing near the desk, violet eyes snapping. "You see, it's not a protection circle at all," he was saying, then broke off as Emma came in. "It's pizza!" "It can't be pizza," said Ty, staring perplexedly at the screen. His long fingers had nearly untangled all the pipe cleaners; when he was done, he'd tangle them back up and start again. "All right, enough," said Jules. "We're taking a break from killings and profiles for dinner." He took the boxes from Emma, shooting her a grateful look, and set them down on the coffee table. "I don't care what you all want to talk about, it just can't involve murder or blood. Any blood." "But it's vampire pizza," Livvy pointed out. "Immaterial," Julian said. "Couch. Now." "Can we watch a movie?" Malcolm piped up, sounding remarkably like Tavvy. "We can watch a movie," Julian said. "Now, Malcolm, I don't care if you are the High Warlock of Los Angeles, sit your butt down." The vampire pizza was shockingly good. Emma decided fairly quickly that she didn't care what was in the sauce. Mouse heads, stewed people parts, whatever. It was amazing. It had a crispy crust and just the right amount of fresh mozzerella. She sucked the cheese off her fingers and made faces at Jules, who had excellent table manners. The film was much more puzzling. It appeared to be about a man who owned a bookstore and was in love with a famous woman, except Emma recognized neither of them and wasn't sure if she was supposed to. Cristina watched in large-eyed bafflement, Ty put his headphones on and closed his eyes, and Dru and Livvy sat on either side of Malcolm, patting him gently while he wept. "Love is beautiful," he said while the man on-screen ran through traffic. "That's not love," said Julian, leaning back against the couch. The flickering light from the screen played over his skin, making it seem unfamiliar, adding frecklings of darkness to the smooth, pale places and lighting the shadows under his cheekbones, at the hollow of his throat. "That's movies." "I came to Los Angeles to bring back love," Malcolm said, his dark violet eyes mournful. "All great movies are about love. Love lost, found, destroyed, regained, bought, sold, dying, and being born. I love movies, but they've forgotten what they're about. Explosions, effects, that wasn't what it meant when I first got here. It was about lighting cigarette smoke so it looked like heavenly fire and lighting women so they looked like angels." Malcolm sighed. "I came here to bring true love back from the dead." "Oh, Malcolm," said Drusilla, and burst into tears. Livvy handed her a napkin from the pizza place. "Why don't you have a boyfriend?" "I'm straight," Malcolm said, looking surprised. "Well, all right, then a girlfriend. You should find a nice Downworlder girl, maybe a vampire, so she'll live forever." "Leave Malcolm's love life alone, Dru," said Livvy. "True love is hard to find," Malcolm said, gesturing at the people kissing on-screen. "Movie love is hard to find," said Julian. "Because it's not real." "What do you mean?" said Cristina. "Are you saying there is no true love? I don't believe that." "Love isn't chasing someone to the airport," said Julian. He leaned forward, and Emma could see just the edge of the parabatai Mark on his collarbone, escaping above the neck of his T-shirt. "Love means you see someone. That's all." "You see them?" Ty echoed, sounding dubious. He'd turned the music down on his player, but his headphones were still on, his black hair scrunched up around them. Julian took hold of the remote. The movie had ended; white credits scrolled down the screen. "When you love someone, they become a part of who you are. They're in everything you do. They're in the air you breathe and the water you drink and the blood in your veins. Their touch stays on your skin and their voice stays in your ears and their thoughts stay in your mind. You know their dreams because their nightmares pierce your heart and their good dreams are your dreams too. And you don't think they're perfect, but you know their flaws, the deep-down truth of them, and the shadows of all their secrets, and they don't frighten you away; in fact you love them more for it, because you don't want perfect. You want them. You want--" He broke off then, as if realizing everyone was looking at him. "You want what?'' said Dru with enormous eyes. "Nothing," Julian said, "I'm just talking." And he shut off the TV and picked up the pizza boxes, "I'm going to throw these away," he said, and left. "When he falls in love," said Dru, looking after him, "it's going to be like ... wow." "Of course then we'll probably never see him again," said Livvy. "Lucky girl, whoever she'll be." Ty's brows drew together. "You're joking, right?" he said. "You don't mean we'll actually never see him again?" "Definitely not," Emma said. When Ty was much younger, he'd been puzzled by the way people talked and the way they exaggerated to make a point. Phrases like "raining cats and dogs" had caused him annoyance--and sometimes a small amount of betrayal, since he liked cats and dogs a great deal more than he liked rain. At some point Julian had begun a series of silly drawings for him, showing the literal meaning of phrases and then the figurative ones. Ty had giggled at the illustrations of cats and dogs falling out of the sky and people having their socks knocked off, as well as the bubble pictures of animals and people explaining what the idioms really meant. After that he was often to be found in the library, looking up expressions and their meanings, committing them to memory. Ty didn't mind having things explained to him, and he never forgot what he'd been taught, but he preferred teaching himself. He still sometimes liked to be reassured that an exaggeration was an exaggeration, even if he was 90 percent sure of it. Livvy, who knew better than anyone the anxiety that imprecise language could cause her brother. scrambled to her feet and went over to him. She put her arms around him, her chin against his shoulder. Ty leaned against her, his eyes half- lidded. Ty liked physical affection when he was in the mood for it, as long as it wasn't too intense--he liked having his hair ruffled and his back patted or scratched. Sometimes he reminded Emma a bit of their cat. Church, when Church wanted an ear rub. Light flared. Cristina had gotten up and flicked the witchlight back on. Brightness expanded to fill the room as Julian came back in and looked around: whatever composure he'd lost was back. "It's late," he said. "Bedtime. Especially for you, Tavvy." "Hate bedtime," said Tavvy, who was sitting in Malcolm's lap, playing with a toy the warlock had given him. It was square and purple and sent off bright sparks. "That's the spirit of the revolution," said Jules. "Malcolm, thanks. I'm sure we'll be needing your help again." Malcolm set Tavvy gently aside and stood up, brushing pizza dust from his rumpled clothes. Picking up his discarded jacket, he headed out into the hallway, Emma and Julian following him. "Well, you know where to find me," he said, zipping the jacket up. "I was going to talk to Diana tomorrow about --" "Diana can't know," Emma said. Malcolm looked puzzled. "Can't know about what?" "That we're looking into this," Julian said, cutting Emma off. "She doesn't want us involved. Says it's dangerous." Malcolm looked disgruntled. "You could have mentioned that before," he said. "I don't like keeping things from her." "Sorry," Julian said. His expression was smooth, faintly apologetic. As always, Emma was both impressed and a little frightened by his ability to lie. Julian was an expert liar when he wanted to be; no shadow of what he really felt would touch his face. "We can't go much further with this without help from the Clave and the Silent Brothers anyway." "All right." Malcolm looked at them both closely: Emma did her best to match Julian's poker face. "As long as you talk to Diana about this tomorrow." He shoved his hands into his pockets, the light gleaming off his colorless hair. "There is one thing I didn't get a chance to tell you. Those markings around the body that Emma found, they weren't for a protective spell." "But you said--" Emma started. "I changed my mind when I got a closer look," Malcolm said. "They're not protective runes. They're summoning runes. Someone's using the energy of the dead bodies to summon." "To summon what?" said Jules. Malcolm shook his head. "Something to this world. A demon, an angel, I don't know. I'll look at the photos some more, ask around the Spiral Labyrinth discreetly." "So if it was a summoning spell," Emma said, "was it successful or unsuccessful?" "A spell like that?" Malcolm said. "If it was successful, believe me, you'd know." Emma was woken up by a plaintive meow. She opened her eyes to find a Persian cat sitting on her chest. It was a blue Persian, to be precise, very round, with tucked-in ears and large yellow eyes. With a yelp Emma leaped to her feet. The cat went flying. The next few moments were chaos as she stumbled over her nightstand while the cat yowled. Finally she succeeded in turning on the light, to find the cat sitting by the door of her room, looking smug and entitled. "Church," she wailed. "Seriously? Don't you have somewhere to be?" It was clear from Church's expression that he didn't. Church was a cat who sometimes belonged to the Institute. He'd shown up on the front step four years ago, left in a box on the doorstep with a note addressed to Emma and a line of script underneath. Please take care of my cat. Brother Zachariah. At the time Emma hadn't been able to figure out why a Silent Brother, even a former Silent Brother, had wanted her to take care of his cat. She'd called Clary, who'd said that the cat had once lived at the New York Institute but did truly belong to Brother Zachariah, and if Emma and Julian wanted the cat they should keep him. His name was Church, she said. Church turned out to be the kind of cat who didn't stay where he was put. He was endlessly escaping out open windows and disappearing for days or even weeks. At first Emma had been frantic every time he left, but he always came back looking sleeker and more self-satisfied than ever. When Emma turned fourteen, he'd begun to come back with presents for her tied to his collar: shells and pieces of sea glass. Emma had put the shells on her windowsill. The sea glass had become Julian's good-luck bracelet. By then, Emma knew the presents were from Jem, but she had no way of reaching him to thank him. So she did her best to take care of Church. There was always dry cat food left out for Church in the entryway, and clean drinking water. They were happy to see him when he showed up, and not worried when he didn't. Church meowed and scraped at the door. Emma was used to this: It meant he wanted her to follow him. With a sigh she pulled on a sweater over her leggings and tank top and shoved her feet into flip-flops. "This better be good," she told Church, grabbing up her stele. "Or I'll make you into a tennis racket." Church didn't appear worried. He led Emma through the hall, down the stairs, and out the front door. The moon was high and bright, reflecting off the water in the distance. It made a path that Emma wandered toward, bemused, as Church kept up his trotting. She scooped him up as they crossed the highway, and deposited him on the beach when they reached the other side. "Well, we're here," she said. "The world's biggest litter box." Church gave her a look that suggested he wasn't impressed with her wit, and sauntered toward the shoreline. They wandered along the edge of the water together. It was a peaceful night, the surf slow and shallow, quieter than the wind. Occasionally Church would make a run for a sand crab, but he always came back, trotting just ahead of Emma, toward the northern constellations. Emma was starting to wonder if he was actually leading her anywhere at all when she realized that they'd rounded the curve of rocks that hid her and Julian's secret beach, and that the beach wasn't uninhabited. She slowed down. The sand was lit up with moonlight, and Julian was sitting in the middle of it, well up from the shoreline. She went toward him, her feet silent on the sand. He didn't look up. She rarely had a chance to look at Julian when he didn't know she was watching. It felt strange, even a little unnerving. The moon was bright enough that she could see the color of his T-shirt--red--and that he was wearing old blue jeans, and that his feet were bare. His bracelet of sea glass seemed to glow. She rarely wished that she could draw, but she did now, just so that she could draw the way he was all one perfect single line, from the angle of his bent leg to the curve of his back as he leaned forward. Only a few feet from him, she stopped. "Jules?" He looked up. He didn't seem the least bit startled. "Was that Church?" Emma glanced around. It took her a moment before she located the cat, perched on top of a rock. He was licking his paw. "He came back," she said, sitting down on the sand next to Jules. "You know, for a visit." "I saw you coming around the rocks." He gave her a half smile. "I thought I was dreaming." "Couldn't sleep?" He rubbed the back of his hand across his eyes. His knuckles were splattered with paint. "You could say that." He shook his head. "Weird nightmares. Demons, faeries--" "Pretty standard Shadowhunter stuff," Emma pointed out. "I mean, that just sounds like a Tuesday." "Helpful, Emma." He flopped back down on the sand, his hair making a dark halo around his head. "I'm all about being helpful." She flopped down next to him, looking up at the sky. Light pollution from Los Angeles spilled out to the beach, too, and the stars were dim but visible. The moon moved in and out behind clouds. A strange sense of peace had fallen over Emma, a sense that she was where she belonged. She hadn't felt it since Julian and the others had left for England. "I was thinking about what you said earlier," he said. "About all the dead ends. All the times we've thought we found something that pointed toward what happened to your parents, but it was nothing." She looked toward him. The moonlight made his profile sharp. "I was thinking maybe there was a meaning to it," he said. "That maybe finding out who it was had to wait until now. Until you were ready. I've watched you train. I've watched you get better. And better. Whoever it is, whatever it is, you're ready now. You can face it down. You can win." Something fluttered under Emma's rib cage. Familiarity, she thought. This was Jules, the Jules she knew, who had more faith in her than she had in herself. "I like to think things have a point," she said softly. "They do." He paused for a moment, eyes on the sky. "I've been counting stars. Sometimes I think it helps to set yourself a pointless task." "Remember, when we were younger, we used to talk about running away? Navigating by the North Star?" she said. "Before the war." He folded his arm behind his head. Moonlight spilled down, illuminating his eyelashes. "Right. I was going to run off, join the French Foreign Legion. Rename myself Julien." "Because no one was ever going to crack that code." She tipped her head to the side. "Jules. What's bothering you? I know something is." He was silent. Emma could see his chest rising and falling slowly. The sound of his breath was drowned out by the sound of the water. She reached over and laid her hand against his arm, her finger tracing lightly down the skin. W-H-A-T IS l-T ? He turned his face away from hers; she saw him shudder, as if a chill had passed over him. "It's Mark." Julian was still looking away from her; she could see only the curve of his throat and chin. "Mark?" "I've been thinking about him," Julian said. "More than usual. I mean, Helen is always there for me on the other end of the phone if I need her, even if she's on Wrangel Island. But Mark might as well have died." Emma sat up straight. "Don't say that. He's not dead." "I know. You know how I know?" Jules asked, his voice tightening. "I used to look for the Wild Hunt every night. But they never come. Statistically, they should have ridden by here at least once in the past five years. But they never have. I think Mark won't let them." "Why not?" Emma was staring at him now. Jules hardly ever talked like this. Not with this bitterness in his voice. "Because he doesn't want to see us. Any sign of us." "Because he loves you?" "Or because he hates us. I don't know." Julian dug restlessly at the sand. "I'd hate us, if I was him. I hate him, sometimes." Emma swallowed. "I hate my parents, too, for dying. Sometimes. It's not-- it doesn't mean anything, Jules." He turned his face toward her at that. His eyes were huge, black rings around the blue-green irises. "That's not the kind of hate I mean." His voice was low. "If he was here, God, everything would be different. Would have been different. I wouldn't be the one who ought to be home now in case Tavvy wakes up. I wouldn't be doing an immoral thing, walking down to the beach because I needed to get away. Tavvy, Dru, Livvy, Ty--they would have had someone to raise them. Mark was sixteen. I was twelve." "Neither of you chose--" "No, we didn't." Julian sat up. The collar of his shirt hung loose, and there was sand on his skin and in his hair. "We didn't choose. Because if I'd ever been able to choose, I would have made really different decisions." Emma knew she shouldn't ask. Not when he was like this. But she had no experience of Julian like this; she didn't know how to react to him, how to be. "What would you have done differently?" she whispered. "I don't know if I would have wanted a parabatai." The words came out clear and precise and brutal. Emma flinched back. It felt like standing in knee-high water and being slapped in the face suddenly and unexpectedly by a wave. "Do you actually mean that?" she said. "You wouldn't have wanted it? This, with me?" He got to his feet. The moon had come out entirely from behind the clouds and it shone down undimmed, bright enough that she could see the color of the paint on his hands. The light freckles across his cheekbones. The tightness of the skin around his mouth and temples. The visceral color of his eyes. "I shouldn't want it," he said. "I absolutely shouldn't." "Jules," she said, baffled and hurt and angry, but he was already walking away, down toward the shoreline. By the time she'd scrambled to her feet, he'd reached the rocks. He was a long, lean shadow, climbing over them. And then he was gone. She could have caught up to him if she'd wanted to, she knew that. But she didn't want to. For the first time in her life, she didn't want to talk to Julian. Something brushed against her ankles. Looking down, she saw Church. His yellow eyes seemed sympathetic, so she picked him up and held him against her, listening to him purr as the tide came in. Idris, 2007, The Dark War When Julian Blackthorn was twelve years old, he killed his own father. There were, of course, extenuating circumstances. His father wasn't his father anymore, not really. More like a monster wearing his father's face. But when the nightmares came, in the dead of night, it didn't matter. Julian saw Andrew Blackthorn's face, and his own hand holding the blade, and the blade going into his father, and he knew. He was cursed. That was what happened when you killed your own father. The gods cursed you. His uncle had said it, and his uncle knew quite a lot of things, especially things that had to do with the curses of gods and the price of bloodshed. Julian had known a great deal of bloodshed, more than any twelve-year-old ought to know. It was Sebastian Morgen stern's fault. He was the Shadowhunter who had started the Dark War, who had used spells and tricks to turn ordinary Shadowhunters into mindless killing machines. An army at his disposal. An army meant to destroy all of the Nephilim who would not join him. Julian, his brothers and sisters, and Emma had been hiding in the Hall of Accords. The greatest hall in Idris, it was meant to be able to keep out any monster. But it could not keep out Shadowhunters, even those who had lost their souls. The huge double doors had cracked open and the Endarkened had surged into the room, and like a poison released into the air, where they went, death followed. They cut down the guards, and they cut down the children who were being guarded. They didn't care. They had no conscience. They were pressing farther into the Hall. Julian had tried to herd the children into a group: Ty and Livvy, the solemn twins; and Dm, who was only eight; and Tavvy, the baby. He stood in front of them with his arms outstretched as if he could protect them, as if he could make a wall with his body that would hold back death. And then death stepped out in front of him. A Dark Shadowhunter, demon runes blazing on his skin, with tangled brown hair and bloodshot blue-green eyes the same color as Julian's. Julian's father. Julian looked around for Emma but she was fighting a faerie warrior, fierce as fire, her sword, Cortana, flashing in her hands. Julian wanted to go to her, wanted it desperately, but he couldn't step away from the children. Someone had to protect them. His older sister was outside; his older brother taken by the Hunt. It would have to be him. That was when Andrew Blackthorn reached them. Bloody cuts scissored across his face. His skin was slack and gray, but his grip on his sword was tight, and his eyes were fixed on his children. "Ty, " he said, his voice low and hoarse. And he looked at Tiberius, his son, and there was rapacious hunger in his eyes. "Tiberius. My Ty. Come here. " Ty's gray eyes opened wide. His twin, Livia, clutched at him, but he strained forward, toward his father. "Dad?" he said. Andrew Blackthorn's face seemed to split with his grin, and Julian thought he could see through the split that tore it open, see the evil and darkness inside, the writhing pestilential core of horror and chaos that was all that animated the body that had once been his father's. His father's voice rose in a croon. "Come here, my boy, my Tiberius ..." Ty took another step forward, and Julian pulled the shortsword from his belt and threw it. He was twelve. He was not particularly strong or particularly skilled. But the gods who would soon hate him must have smiled on that throw, because the blade flew like an arrow, like a bullet, and plunged into Andrew Blackthorn's chest, knocking him to the ground. He was dead before he hit the marble floor, his blood spreading around him in a dark red pool. "I hate you!" Ty threw himself at Julian, and Julian threw his arms around his little brother, thanking the Angel over and over that Ty was all right, was breathing, was thrashing and pounding his chest and looking up at him with tearful, angry eyes. "You killed him, I hate you, I hate you --" Livvy had her hands on Ty's back, trying to pull him away. Julian could feel the blood rushing through Ty's veins, the rise and fall of his chest; he felt the force of his brother's hatred and knew it meant that Ty was alive. They were all alive. Livvy with her soft words and her soothing hands, Dru with her enormous, terrified eyes, and Tavvy with his uncomprehending tears. And Emma. His Emma. He had committed the most ancient and worst of sins: He had killed his own father, the person who gave him life. And he would do it again. What kind of person was he? <|title|>Chapter 5: Highborn Kinsmen <|startofchapter|>"Now, when were the first Accords signed?" asked Diana. "And what was their effect?" It was a distractingly bright day. Sunlight poured in through the high windows of the schoolroom, illuminating the board in front of which Diana paced, tapping the palm of her left hand with a stele. Her lesson plan was scrawled on the board in nearly illegible handwriting: Emma could make out the words Accords, Cold Peace, and evolution of Law. She looked sideways at Jules, but he had his head bent over some papers. They hadn't really spoken so far today, aside from being polite to each other at breakfast. She had woken up with her stomach feeling hollow and her hands hurting from clenching the bedclothes. Also Church had abandoned her sometime during the night. Stupid cat. "They were signed in 1872," said Cristina. "They were a series of agreements between the species of the Shadow World and Nephilim, meant to keep the peace among them and establishing common rules for all of them to follow." "They also protect Downworlders," said Julian. "Before the Accords, if Downworlders harmed each other, Shadowhunters couldn't and wouldn't step in. The Accords gave Downworlders our protection." He paused. "At least until the Cold Peace." Emma remembered the first time she had heard of the Cold Peace. She and Julian had been in the Hall of Accords when it was proposed. The punishment of the faeries for their part in Sebastian Morgenstern's Dark War. She remembered the confusion of her feelings. Her parents had died because of that war, but how did Mark and Helen, who she loved, deserve to bear the brunt of that simply because of the faerie blood in their veins? "And where were the papers of the Cold Peace signed?" Diana asked. "In Idris," said Livvy. "At the Hall of Accords. Everyone who usually attends the Accords was supposed to be there, but the Seelie Queen and the Unseelie King never showed up to sign the treaty, so it was altered and signed without them." "And what does the Cold Peace mean for faeries?" Diana's look at Emma was pointed. Emma glared down at her desk. "Faeries aren't protected under the Accords anymore," said Ty. "It's forbidden to help them, and they're forbidden from contacting Shadowhunters. Only the Scholomance and the Centurions are meant to deal with faeries--and the Consul and Inquisitor." "A faerie who carries a weapon can be punished by death," Jules added. He looked exhausted. There were dark circles under his eyes. Emma wished he would look at her. She and Julian didn't fight. They never fought. She wondered if he was as baffled as she was. She kept hearing what he'd said over and over: that he wouldn't have wanted a parabatai. Was it any parabatai he didn't want, or her specifically? "And what is the Clave, Tavvy?" It was a question too elementary for any of the rest of them, but Tavvy looked pleased to be able to answer something. "The government of the Shadowhunters," he said. "Active Shadowhunters are all in the Clave. The ones who make decisions are the Council. There are three Downworlders on the Council, each one representing a different Downworlder race. Warlocks, werewolves, and vampires. There hasn't been a faerie representative since the Dark War." "Very good," said Diana, and Tavvy beamed. "Can anyone tell me what other changes have been wrought by the Council since the end of the war?" "Well, the Shadowhunter Academy was reopened," said Emma. This was familiar territory for her--she had been invited by the Consul to be one of the first students. She'd chosen to stay with the Blackthorns instead. "A lot of Shadowhunters are trained there now, and of course they bring in a lot of Ascendant hopefuls--mundanes who want to become Nephilim." "The Scholomance was reestablished," said Julian. Wavy strands of his hair, dark and glossy, fell against his cheek as he lifted his head. "It existed before the first Accords were signed, and when the Council was betrayed by faeries, they insisted on opening it again. The Scholomance does research, trains Centurions ..." "Think of what it must have been like in the Scholomance for all those years it was closed," said Dru, her eyes gleaming with horror-movie delight. "All the way up in the mountains, totally abandoned and dark, full of spiders and ghosts and shadows . .." "If you want to think about somewhere scary, think about the Bone City," said Livvy. The City of Bones was where the Silent Brothers lived: It was an underground place of networked tunnels built out of the ashes of dead Shadowhunters. "I'd like to go to the Scholomance," interrupted Ty. "I wouldn't," said Livvy. "Centurions aren't allowed to have parabatai." "I'd like to go anyway," said Ty. "You could come too if you wanted." "I don't want to go to the Scholomance," said Livvy. "It's in the middle of the Carpathian Mountains. It's freezing there, and there are bears." Ty's face lit up as it often did at the mention of animals. "There are bears?" "Enough chatter," said Diana. "When was the Scholomance reopened?" Cristina, who had the seat closest to the window, raised her hand to interrupt. "There's someone coming up the path to the front door," she said. "Several someones, in fact." Emma glanced over at Jules again. It was rare that anyone paid an unscheduled visit to the Institute. There were only a few people who might, and even most of the members of the Conclave would have made an appointment with Arthur. Then again, maybe someone did have an appointment with Arthur. Though by the look on Julian's face, if they did, it was one he didn't know about. Cristina, who had risen to her feet, drew her breath in. "Please," she said. "Come and see." Everyone bolted to the one long window that ran across the main wall of the room. The window itself looked out onto the front of the Institute and the winding path that led from the doors down to the highway that divided them from the beach and the sea. The sky was high and blue and cloudless. The sunlight sparked off the silver bridles of three horses, each with a silent rider seated on its bare back. "Hadas," Cristina said, the word emerging on a staccato beat of astonishment. "Faeries." It was undeniably the case. The first horse was black, and the rider who sat on him wore black armor that looked like burned leaves. The second horse was black as well, and the rider who sat on him wore a robe the color of ivory. The third horse was brown, and its rider was wrapped head to toe in a hooded robe the color of earth. Emma couldn't tell if it was a man or a woman, a child or an adult. '"So first let pass the horses black and then let pass the brown,'" Jules murmured, quoting an old faerie poem. "One robed in black, one brown, one white--it's an official delegation. From the Courts." Julian looked across the room at Diana. "I didn't know Arthur had a meeting with a delegation from Faerie. Do you think he told the Clave?" She shook her head, clearly puzzled. "I don't know. He never mentioned it to me." Julian's body was taut like a bowstring; Emma could feel the tension coming off him. A delegation from Faerie was a rare, serious thing. Permission from the Clave had to be granted before a meeting could be held. Even by the head of an Institute. "Diana, I have to go." Frowning, Diana tapped her stele against one hand, then nodded. "Fine. Go ahead." "I'll come with you." Emma slid down from the window seat. Julian, already headed to the door, paused and turned. "No," he said. "It's all right. I'll take care of it." He walked out of the room. For a moment Emma didn't move. Normally if Julian told her he didn't need her with him, or that he had to do something alone, she wouldn't have given it a second thought. Sometimes events necessitated splitting up. But the night before had solidified her feeling of unease. She didn't know what was going on with Jules. She didn't know if he didn't want her with him, or did but was angry with her or angry with himself or both. She knew only that the Fair Folk were dangerous, and there was no way Julian was facing them alone. "I'm going,'' she said, and headed toward the door. She stopped to take down Cortana, which was hanging beside it. "Emma," said Diana, her voice tight with meaning. "Be careful." The last time faeries had been in the Institute, they had helped Sebastian Morgenstern wrench the soul from the body of Julian's father. They had taken Mark. Emma had carried Tavvy and Dru to safety. She had helped save the lives of Julian's younger brothers and sisters. They had barely escaped alive. But Emma hadn't had years of training then. She hadn't killed a single demon herself, not when she was twelve. She hadn't spent years training to fight and kill and defend. There was no way she was hanging back now. Faeries. Julian raced down the corridor and into his bedroom, his mind whirling. Faeries at the doors of the Institute. Three steeds: two black, one brown. A contingent from a Faerie Court, though Seelie or Unseelie, Julian couldn't have said. They seemed to have been flying no banner. They would want to talk. If there was anything faeries were good at, it was talking circles around humans. Even Shadowhunters. They could pierce the truth of a lie, and see the lie at the heart of a truth. He grabbed up the jacket he'd been wearing the day before. There it was, in the inside pocket. The vial Malcolm had given him. He hadn't expected to need it so soon. He had hoped-- Well, never mind what he had hoped. He thought of Emma, briefly, and the chaos of broken hopes she represented. But now wasn't the time to think about that. Clutching the vial, Julian broke into a run again. He reached the end of the hallway and yanked open the door to the attic. He pounded up the steps and burst into his uncle's study. Uncle Arthur was seated at his desk, wearing a slightly ragged T-shirt, jeans, and loafers. His gray-brown hair hung nearly to his shoulders. He was comparing two massive books, muttering and marking down notes. "Uncle Arthur." Julian approached the desk. "Uncle Arthur!" Uncle Arthur made a shooing gesture at him. "I'm in the middle of something important. Something very important, Andrew." "I'm Julian." He moved up behind his uncle and slammed both books shut. Arthur looked up at him in surprise, his faded green-blue eyes widening. "There's a delegation here. From Faerie. Did you know they were coming?" Arthur seemed to shrink in on himself. "Yes," he said. "They sent messages --so many messages." He shook his head. "But why? It is forbidden. Faeries, they--they cannot reach us now." Julian prayed silently for patience. "The messages, where are the messages?" "They were written on leaves," Arthur said. "The leaves crumbled. As everything faeries touch crumbles, withers, and dies." "But what did the messages say?" "They insisted. On a meeting." Julian took a deep breath. "Do you know what the meeting is about, Uncle Arthur?" "I'm sure they mentioned it in their correspondence . . . ," Uncle Arthur said nervously. "But I don't recall it." He looked up at Julian. "Perhaps Nerissa would know." Julian tensed. Nerissa had been Mark and Helen's mother. Julian knew little about her--a princess of the gentry, she had been beautiful, according to Helen's stories, and ruthless. She had been dead for years, and on his good days, Arthur knew that. Arthur had different kinds of days: quiet ones, where he sat silently without responding to questions, and dark days, where he was angry, depressed, and often cruel. Mentioning the dead meant not a dark day or a quiet day, but the worst kind, a chaotic day, a day when Arthur would do nothing Julian expected--when he might lash out in anger or crumple into tears. The kind of day that brought the bitter taste of panic to the back of Julian's throat. Julian's uncle had not always been this way. Julian remembered him as a quiet, almost silent man, a shadowy figure rarely present at family holidays. He had been an articulate enough presence in the Accords Hall when he had spoken up to say that he would accept the running of the Institute. No one who did not know him very, very well would ever know something was wrong. Julian knew that his father and Arthur had been held prisoner in Faerie. That Andrew had fallen in love with Lady Nerissa, and had two children with her: Mark and Helen. But what had happened to Arthur during those years was cloaked in shadow. His lunacy, as the Clave would have termed it, was to Julian's mind a faerie-spun thing. If they had not destroyed his sanity, they had planted the seeds of its destruction. They had made his mind a fragile castle, so that years later, when the London Institute was attacked and Arthur injured, it shattered like glass. Julian put his hand over Arthur's. His uncle's hand was slender and bony; it felt like the hand of a much older man. "I wish you didn't have to go to the meeting. But they'll be suspicious if you don't." Arthur drew his glasses off his face and rubbed the bridge of his nose. "My monograph . . ." "I know," Julian said. "It's important. But this is also important. Not just for the Cold Peace, but for us. For Helen. For Mark." "Do you remember Mark?" Arthur said. His eyes were brighter without the glasses. "It was so long ago." "Not that very long ago, Uncle," said Julian. "I remember him perfectly." "It does seem like yesterday." Arthur shuddered. "I remember the Fair Folk warriors. They came into the London Institute with their armor covered in blood. So much, as if they had been in the Achaean lines when Zeus rained down blood." His hand, holding his glasses, shook. "I cannot meet with them." "You have to," Julian said. He thought of everything unspoken: that he himself had been a child during the Dark War, that he had seen faeries slaughter children, heard the screams of the Wild Hunt. But he said none of it. "Uncle, you must." "If I had my medication . . . ," Arthur said faintly. "But I ran out while you were gone." "I have it." From his pocket, Julian produced the vial. "You should have asked Malcolm for more." "I didn't remember." Arthur slid his glasses back onto his nose, watching as Julian tipped the contents of the vial into the glass of water on the desk. "How to find him . . . who to trust." "You can trust me," Julian said, almost choking on the words, and held the glass out to his uncle. "Here. You know how the Fair Folk are. They feed on human unease and take advantage of it. This will help keep you calm, even if they try their tricks." "Yes." Arthur looked at the glass, half with hunger and half fear. The contents of it would affect him for an hour, maybe less. Afterward he would have a blinding, crippling headache that might keep him in bed for days. Julian hardly ever gave it to him: The aftereffect was rarely worth it, but it would be worth it now. It had to be. Uncle Arthur hesitated. Slowly he lifted the glass to his mouth, tipped the water in. Slowly he swallowed. The effect was instant. Suddenly everything about Arthur seemed to sharpen, to become crisp, clear, precise, like a sketch that had been refined into a careful drawing. He rose to his feet and reached for the jacket that hung on a peg by his desk. "Help me find some clothes to change into, Julian," he said. "We must make a decent appearance in the Sanctuary." Every Institute had a Sanctuary. It had always been that way. The Institute was a mixture of city hall and residence, a place where Shadowhunters and Downworlders alike came to meet with the Institute's head. The head was the local representative of the Clave. In all of Southern California, there was no more important Shadowhunter than the head of the Los Angeles Institute. And the safest place to meet him was the Sanctuary, where vampires did not need to fear hallowed ground, and Downworlders were protected by oaths. The Sanctuary had two sets of doors. One led outside and could be entered by anyone, who would find themselves inside the massive stone-bound room. The other set of doors connected the inside of the Institute to the Sanctuary. Like the front doors of the Institute, the inner doors of the Sanctuary yielded only to those with Shadowhunter blood. Emma paused on the landing of the stairs to look out the window for the Fair Folk delegation. She had seen their horses, riderless, waiting near the front steps. If the Fair Folk delegation had experience with Shadowhunters, and they likely did, then they were already inside the Sanctuary. The inner doors to the Sanctuary were at the end of a corridor that led off the Institute's main entryway. They were made of copper metal that had long since gone green with verdigris, and runes of protection and welcome wound their way around the framework of the doors like vines. Emma could hear voices from the other side of the doors: unfamiliar voices, one clear like water, one sharp like a twig snapping underfoot. She tightened her hold on Cortana and pushed through the entrance. The Sanctuary itself was built in the shape of a crescent moon, facing the mountains--the shadowy canyons, the silver-green brush scattered across the landscape. The mountains blocked the sun, but the room was bright. thanks to a pendant chandelier hanging from the ceiling. Light bounced off the cut glass and illuminated the checkerboard floor: alternating squares of darker and lighter wood. If you climbed to the chandelier and looked down, they revealed themselves as the shape of the Angelic Power rune. Not that Emma would admit she'd done that. Though one did get an excellent view of the massive stone chair of the Institute's head from that angle. In the center of the room were the faeries. There were only two of them, the one in white robes and the one in black armor. Nowhere could she see the brown rider. Neither of their faces was visible. She could see the fingertips of long, pale hands extending beyond their sleeves but couldn't tell if they were male or female. Emma could sense a wild, unwieldy power rolling off them, the breathy edge of otherworldliness. A feeling like the cool damp of wet earth brushed her skin, carrying the scent of roots and leaves and jacaranda blossoms. The faerie in black laughed and drew his hood down. Emma started. Skin the color of dark green leaves, clawed hands, yellow owl's eyes. He wore a cloak, woven with the pattern of a rowan tree. It was the faerie she had seen at the Sepulchre the other night. "We meet again, fair one,'' he said, and his mouth, which was like a slit in the bark of a tree, grinned. "I am larlath of the Unseelie Court. My companion in white is Kieran of the Hunt. Kieran, lower your hood." The other faerie lifted two slender hands, each of them tipped by nearly translucent, square nails. He took hold of the edges of his hood and thrust it back with an imperious, almost rebellious gesture. Emma suppressed a gasp. He was beautiful. Not like Julian was beautiful, or Cristina--in human ways--but like the cutting edge of Cortana. He looked young, no more than sixteen or seventeen, though she guessed he was older than that. Dark hair with a faint blue sheen framed a sculpted face. His light tunic and trousers were faded and worn; they had been elegant once, but now the sleeves and hems were slightly too short on a lithe and graceful body. His wide-spaced eyes were two-colored: the left black and the right a deep silver. He wore the battered white gauntlets that proclaimed him a prince of Faerie, but his eyes--his eyes said that he was part of the Wild Hunt. "Is this because of the other night?" Emma said, looking from larlath to Kieran. "At the Sepulchre?" "In part," said larlath. His voice sounded like boughs creaking in the wind. Like the dark depths of fairy-tale forests, where only monsters lived. Emma wondered that she hadn't noticed it at the bar. "Is this the girl?" Kieran's voice was very different: It sounded like waves sliding up the shore. Like warm water under pale light. It was seductive, with an edge of cold. He looked at Emma as if she were a new kind of flower, one he wasn't sure he liked. "She's pretty," he said. "I didn't think she'd be pretty. You didn't mention it." larlath shrugged. "You've always been partial to blondes," he said. "Okay, seriously?" Emma snapped her fingers. "I am right here. And I was not aware I was being invited to a game of 'Who's the Hottest?"' "I wasn't aware you were invited at all," said Kieran. His speech had a casual edge, as if he was used to talking to humans. "Rude," said Emma. "This is my house. And what are you doing here, anyway? Did you show up to tell me that he"--she pointed at larlath-- "isn't responsible for the murder at the Sepulchre? Because that seems like going way out of your way just to say you didn't do it." "Of course I didn't do it," larlath snapped. "Don't be ridiculous." Linder any other circumstances, Emma would have dismissed the comment. Faeries, though, couldn't lie. Not full-blooded faeries, anyway. Half faeries, like Mark and Helen, could tell untruths, but they were rare. Emma crossed her arms over her chest. "Repeat after me: 'I did not murder the victim you speak of, Emma Carstairs,"' she said. "So I know it's true." larlath's yellow eyes fixed on Emma with dislike. "I did not murder the victim you speak of, Emma Carstairs." "Then why are you here?" Emma demanded. "Oh, is this one of those missed-connections things? We met the other night, you felt a spark? Sorry, but I don't date trees." "I am not a tree." larlath looked angry, his bark peeling slightly. "Emma," said a warning voice from the doorway. To Emma's surprise, it was Arthur Blackthorn. He stood at the entrance to the Sanctuary wearing a somber dark suit, his hair neatly combed back. The sight gave Emma a jolt; it was a long time since she remembered him wearing anything but a ragged robe or old, coffee-stained jeans. Standing beside him was Julian, his brown hair rumpled. She searched his face for signs of anger but saw none--he looked like someone who'd run a marathon, actually, and was holding himself back from crumpling with exhaustion and relief. "My apologies for the behavior of my ward," said Arthur, striding into the room. "Though it is not forbidden to squabble in the Sanctuary, it is against the spirit of the place." He sank down in the massive stone chair under the chandelier. "I am Arthur Blackthorn. This is my nephew Julian Blackthorn." Julian, who had come to stand beside Arthur's seat, inclined his head as Kieran and larlath introduced themselves. "Now, pray tell us why you are here." The faerie convoy exchanged glances. "What," said Kieran, "no words about the Cold Peace or about how this visit breaks your Law?" "My uncle does not administrate the Cold Peace," said Julian. "And it is not what we wish to discuss. You know the rules as well as we do; if you've chosen to break them, it must be for an important reason. If you don't wish to share the information, my uncle will have to ask you to leave." Kieran looked haughty. "Very well," he said. "We have come to ask a favor." "A favor?" Emma said in amazement. The wording of the Cold Peace was clear: Shadowhunters were not to give aid to either the Seelie or the Unseelie Court. The representatives of the Courts had never appeared to sign the Nephilim's treaty; they had scorned it, and this was their punishment. "Perhaps you are confused," Arthur said coldly. "You might have heard of my niece and nephew; you might think that because our relatives Mark and Helen have faerie blood you will find a kinder hearing here than you would at some other Institute. But my niece was sent away because of the Cold Peace, and my nephew was stolen from us." Kieran's lip curled up at the corner. "Your niece's exile was a Shadowhunter decree, not a faerie one," he said. "As for your nephew--" Arthur took a shaking breath. His hands were gripping the armrests of his chair. "The hand of the Consul was forced by the betrayal of the Seelie Queen. Unseelie warriors fought beside hers. No faerie hand is free of blood. We are not well disposed toward faeries here." "The Cold Peace wasn't what took Mark away from us," said Julian, his cheeks burning with color. "That was you. The Wild Hunt. We can see by your eyes that you ride with Gwyn, don't deny it." "Oh," said Kieran with a slight smirk on his lips. "I would not deny that." Emma wondered if anyone else heard Julian's intake of breath. "So you know my brother." The smirk never left Kieran's face. "Of course I do." Julian looked as if he were barely holding himself back. "What do you know about Mark?" "What is this pretense of surprise?" demanded larlath. "It is foolishness. We mentioned Mark of the Hunt in the letter we sent." Emma saw the look on Julian's face, a flicker of shock. She stepped forward quickly, not wanting him to be the one to have to ask. "What letter?" "It was written on a leaf," Arthur said. "A leaf that crumbled." He was sweating; he took the handkerchief from his breast pocket and mopped at his forehead. "There were words on it about killings. About Mark. I didn't believe it was real. I was--" Julian stepped forward, half-blocking his uncle from view. "Killings?" Kieran looked at Julian, and his bicolored eyes darkened. Emma felt the uncomfortable sensation that Kieran thought he knew something about her parabatai, something she didn't know herself. "You know of the murders," he said. "Emma Carstairs found one of the bodies. We know you are aware there have been others." "Why do you care?" said Julian. "Faeries do not normally involve themselves in the bloodshed of the human world." "We do if the blood being shed is faerie blood," said Kieran. He looked around at their surprised faces. "As you know, the killer has been murdering and mutilating faeries, too. That is why larlath was at the Sepulchre. That is why Emma Carstairs encountered him. You were hunting the same prey." larlath reached into his cloak and drew out a handful of glittering mica. He tossed it into the air, where the particles hung and separated, coalescing into three-dimensional images. Images of bodies, faerie bodies--human-looking gentry faeries, all dead. All had skin carved with the spiky dark markings that had adorned the body Emma had found in the alley. Emma found herself unconsciously leaning forward, trying to get a better view of the illusion. "What are these? Magic photographs?" "Memories, preserved with magic," said larlath. "Illusions," said Julian. "Illusions can lie." larlath turned his hand to the side, and the images changed. Emma was suddenly looking at the dead man she'd found in the alley three nights ago. It was an exact image, down to the twisted look of horror on his face. "Does this lie?" Emma stared at larlath. "So you saw him. You must have come across him before I did. I wondered." larlath closed his hand, and the glittering pieces of mica fell to the floor like drops of rain, the illusion vanishing. "I did. He was already dead. I could not have helped him. I left him for you to find." Emma said nothing. It was quite evident from the picture that larlath was telling the truth. And faeries didn't lie. "Shadowhunters have been killed too, we know," Kieran said. "Shadowhunters are often killed," said Uncle Arthur. "There is no safe place." "Not so," said Kieran. "There is protection where there are protectors." "My parents," Emma said, ignoring Julian, who was shaking his head at her, as if to say. Don't tell them, don't share, don't give them anything. She knew he was likely right--it was in the nature of faeries to take your secrets and turn them against you. But if there was the chance, the smallest chance that they knew something . . . "Their bodies were found with those same markings on them, five years ago. When the Shadowhunters tried to move them, they crumbled to ashes. The only reason we know about the markings was because the Nephilim took photos first." Kieran glanced at her with shimmering eyes. Neither looked quite human: The black eye was too dark, the silver too metallic. And yet the overall effect was haunting, inhumanly beautiful. "We know about your parents," he said. "We know of their deaths. We know of the demon language with which their bodies were inscribed." "Mutilated," Emma said, her breath catching, and felt Julian's eyes on her, a reminder that he was there, a silent support. "Disfigured. Not inscribed." Kieran's expression didn't change. "We understand as well that you have tried for years to translate or understand the markings, with no success. We can help you change that." "What are you saying, exactly?" Julian demanded. His eyes were guarded; his whole posture was. The tension in his body kept Emma from bursting out with questions. "The scholars of the Unseelie Court have studied the markings," said larlath. "It looks like a language from an ancient time of Faerie. One long before your human memory. Before there were Nephilim." "Back when faeries were more closely tied to their demonic ancestry," said Arthur hoarsely. Kieran's lip curled as if Arthur had said something distasteful. "Our scholars began to translate it," he said. He drew several sheets of thin, parchment-like paper from his cloak. Emma recognized on them the markings she was so familiar with. Below the markings were more words, written in a spidery script. Emma's heart started to pound. "They translated the first line," he said. "It does appear to perhaps be part of a spell. There our knowledge fails us--the Fair Folk do not deal in spells; that is warlock territory--" "You translated the first line?" Emma burst out. "What is it?" "We will tell you," said larlath, "and give you the work our scholars have done so far, if you will agree to our terms." Julian looked at them with suspicion. "Why would you translate only the first line? Why not the whole thing?" "Scarce had the scholars worked out the meaning of that first line when the Unseelie King forbade them to continue," said Kieran. "The magic of this spell is dark, demonic in origin. He did not want it awakened in Faerie." "You could have continued the work yourself," said Emma. "All faeries are forbidden by the King to touch these words," snapped larlath. "But that does not mean our involvement ends. We believe this text, these markings, may help lead you to the killer, once they are understood." "And you want us to translate the rest of the markings?" Julian said. "Using the line you've worked out as a key?" "More than that," said larlath. "The translation is but the first step. It will lead you to the murderer. Once you have found that person, you will turn them over to the Unseelie King that they might stand trial for the murder of the fey and receive justice." "You want us to conduct an investigation on your behalf?" Julian snapped. "We're Shadowhunters. We're bound by the Cold Peace, just like you. It is forbidden for us to help the Fair Folk, forbidden for us to even entertain you here. You know what we'd be risking. How dare you ask?" There was rage in Julian's voice--rage out of proportion to the suggestion, but Emma couldn't blame him. She knew what he saw when he looked at faeries, especially faeries with the broken eyes of the Wild Hunt. He saw the cold wastes of Wrangel Island. He saw the empty bedroom in the Institute where Mark no longer was. "It isn't just their investigation," Emma said quietly. "It's mine, too. This has to do with my parents." "I know," Julian said, and his anger was gone. There was an ache in his voice instead. "But not this way, Emma--" "Why come here?" Arthur interrupted, looking pained, his face gray. "Why not to a warlock?" Kieran's beautiful face twisted. "We cannot consult a warlock," he said. "None of Lilith's Children will deal with us. The Cold Peace has left us shunned by other Downworlders. But you can visit the High Warlock Malcolm Fade, or Magnus Bane himself, and demand an answer to your question. We are chained, but you --" He spoke the word with scorn. "You are free." "This is the wrong family to have come to," said Arthur. "You are asking us to break the Law for you, as if we have some special regard for the Fair Folk. But the Blackthorns have not forgotten what you have taken from them." "No," Emma said. "We need those papers, we need-- " "Emma." Arthur's look was sharp. "Enough." Emma dropped her gaze, but her blood was singing through her veins, a determined melody of rebellion. If the faeries left and took the papers with them, she would find some way to track them down, to retrieve the information, to learn what she had to learn. Some way. Even if the Institute couldn't risk it, she could. larlath looked at Arthur. "I do not think you wish to make such a hasty decision." Arthur's jaw tightened. "Why do you second-guess me, neighbor?" The Good Neighbors. An old, old term for faerie folk. It was Kieran who replied: "Because we have something that you want above all other things. And if you help us, we are willing to give it to you." Julian paled. Emma, staring at him, was for a moment too caught up in his reaction to realize herself what they were implying. When she did, her heart gave an uneven throb inside her chest. "What is it?" Julian whispered. "What do you have that we want?" "Oh, come now," Kieran said. "What do you think?" The door of the Sanctuary, the one that went to the outside of the Institute, opened, and the faerie in the brown robes came in. He moved with grace and silence, no hesitation or trepidation--without anything human about his movements at all. Entering the pattern of the angelic rune on the floor, he came to a stop. The room was completely silent as he raised his hands to his hood and--for the first time--hesitated. His hands were human, long-fingered, tanned pale brown. Familiar. Emma wasn't breathing. She couldn't breathe. Julian looked as if he were in a dream. Arthur's face was blank, confused. "Take your hood down, boy," said larlath. "Show your face." The familiar hands tightened on the hood and yanked it down. Pushing, then shoving the cloak off his shoulders, as if the material of it clung unpleasantly. Emma saw the flash of a long, lithe body, of pale hair, of thin hands, as the cloak was wrenched away and slid to the ground in a dark puddle. A boy stood in the heart of the rune, panting. A boy who looked about seventeen, with fair hair that curled like acanthus vines, tangled with twigs and briars, hanging to his shoulders. His eyes showed the shattered doubling of the Wild Hunt: two colors--one gold, one Blackthorn blue. His feet were bare, black with dirt, his clothes ragged and torn. A wave of dizziness passed through Emma along with a terrible mixture of horror and relief and amazement. Julian had stiffened, as if he'd been shocked with electricity. She saw the slight tightening of his jaw, the twitch of a muscle in his cheek. He didn't open his mouth; it was Arthur who spoke, half-rising from his chair, his voice thready and uncertain: "Mark?" Mark's eyes widened in confusion. He opened his mouth to answer, larlath whirled on him. "Mark Blackthorn of the Wild Hunt," he snapped. "Do not speak until given permission to speak." Mark's lips slammed together. His face was still. "And you," said Kieran, holding up a hand as Julian started forward, "stay where you are." "What have you done to him?" Julian's eyes flashed. "What have you done to my brother?" "Mark belongs to the Wild Hunt," said larlath. "If we choose to release him to you, it will be at our recognizance." Arthur had sunk back into the chair behind him. He was blinking owlishly and looking from Mark to the faerie host. The gray color was back in his face. "The dead rise and the lost return," he said. "We should fly blue banners from the tops of the towers." Kieran seemed coldly puzzled. "Why does he say that?" Julian looked from Arthur to Mark to the other two faeries. "He's in shock," he said. "His health is fragile; it has been since the war." "It's from an old Shadowhunter poem," said Emma. "I'm surprised you don't know it." "Poems contain much truth," said larlath, and there was humor in his voice, but a bitter sort. Emma wondered if he was laughing at them or himself. Julian was staring at Mark, a look on his face of unmitigated shock and longing. "Mark?" he said. Mark looked away. Julian looked as if he had been pierced by elf-bolts, the sly faerie arrows that burrowed under the skin and released deadly poison. Any anger Emma had felt toward him about the night before evaporated. The look on his face was like knife blades in her heart. "Mark," he said again, and then in a half whisper, "Why? Why can't he speak to me?" "He is forbidden by Gwyn to speak until our bargain is sealed," said Kieran. He glanced at Mark, and there was something cold in his expression. Hatred? Envy? Did he despise Mark for being half-human? Did they all? How had they showed their hate all these years, when Mark was at their mercy? Emma could sense how hard Julian was holding himself back from going to his brother. She spoke for him. "So Mark is your bargaining chip." Rage flashed across Kieran's face, sudden and startling. "Why must you state things that are obvious? Why must all humans do it? Foolish girl--" Julian changed; his attention snapped away from Mark, his spine straightening, his voice hardening. He sounded calm, but Emma, who knew him so well, could hear the ice in his voice. "Emma is my parabatai," he said. "If you ever speak to her like that again, there will be blood on the floor of the Sanctuary, and I do not care if they put me to death for it." Kieran's beautiful, alien eyes gleamed. "You Nephilim are loyal to your chosen partners, I will give you that." He waved a dismissive hand. "I suppose Mark is our bargaining chip, as you put it, but do not forget that it is the fault of the Nephilim that we need one at all. There was a time when Shadowhunters would have investigated the killings of our kind because they believed in their mandate to protect more than they believed in their hate." "There was a time when the Fair Folk might have freely returned to us one of our own," said Arthur. "The pain of loss goes both ways, as does the loss of trust." "Well, you will have to trust us," said Kieran. "You have no one else. Do you?" There was a long silence. Julian's gaze went back to his brother, and in that moment Emma hated the Fair Folk, for in holding Mark, they also held Julian's human, breakable heart. "So you want us to find out who is responsible for these killings," he said. "Stop the murders of faeries and humans. And in return you will give us Mark, if we succeed?" "The Court is prepared to be far more generous," said Kieran. "We will give you Mark now. He will assist you in your investigation. And when the investigation is over, he may choose whether he remains with you or returns to the Hunt." "He will choose us," Julian said. "We are his family." Kieran's eyes shone. "I would not be so sure, young Shadowhunter. Those of the Hunt are loyal to the Hunt." "He isn't of the Hunt," Emma said. "He's a Blackthorn." "His mother, Lady Nerissa, was fey," said Kieran. "And he has ridden with us, reaped the dead with us, mastered the use of elf-bolt and arrow. He is a formidable warrior in the faerie fashion, but he is not like you. He will not fight like you. He is not Nephilim." "Yes, he is," said Julian. "Shadowhunter blood breeds true. His skin can bear Marks. You know the laws." Kieran did not reply to that, just looked at Arthur. "Only the head of the Institute can decide this. You must let your uncle speak freely." Emma looked to Arthur; they all did. Arthur picked nervously, fretfully at the arm of his chair. "You wish the fey boy here that he might report on us to you," he said finally in a quavering voice. "He will be your spy." The fey boy. Not Mark. Emma looked over at Mark, but if a flicker of hurt passed across his stony face, it was invisible. "If we wished to spy on you, there are easier ways," said Kieran in a tone of cold reproach. "We would not need to give up Mark--he is one of the best fighters of the Hunt. Gwyn will miss him sorely. He will not be a spy." Julian drew away from Emma, fell on his knees by his uncle's chair. He leaned in and whispered to Arthur, and Emma strained to hear what he was saying, but could make out only a few words--"brother" and "investigation" and "murder" and "medicine" and "Clave." Arthur held up a shaking hand, as if to silence his nephew, and turned to the faeries. "We will accept your offer," he said. "On the condition that there will be no tricks. At the end of the investigation, when the killer is caught, Mark will make his own free choice to stay or to go." "Of course," said larlath. "As long as the murderer is clearly identified. We wish to know the one with the blood on his hands--it will not be enough for you to say 'it was done by that one or this one' or 'vampires were responsible.' The murderer or murderers will be placed in the custody of the Courts. We will mete out justice." Not if I find the murderer first, Emma thought. I'll deliver his dead body to you, and that had better be good enough. "First you swear," said Julian, his blue-green eyes bright and hard. "Say, 'I swear that when the terms of the bargain are fulfilled, Mark Blackthorn will make his own free choice whether he wishes to be part of the Hunt or return to his life as a Nephilim.'" Kieran's mouth tightened. "I swear that when the terms of the bargain are fulfilled, Mark Blackthorn will make his own free choice whether he wishes to be part of the Hunt or return to his life as a Nephilim." Mark was expressionless, unmoving as he had been all this time, as if they weren't discussing him but someone else. He looked as if he were seeing through the walls of the Sanctuary, seeing the distant ocean perhaps, or a place even farther away than that. "Then I think we have an arrangement," Julian said. The two faeries looked at each other, and then Kieran walked over to Mark. He laid his white hands on Mark's shoulders and said something to him in a guttural language Emma didn't understand--it was nothing Diana had taught them, not the high, fluting speech of the Court fey or any other magical speech. Mark didn't move, and Kieran stepped away, looking unsurprised. "He is yours for now," he said. "We will leave his steed for him. They have become ... attached." "He won't be able to use a horse," Julian said, his voice tight. "Not in Los Angeles." Kieran's smile was full of contempt. "I think you'll find he can use this one." "God!" It was Arthur, crying out. He lurched forward, his hands cradling his head. "It hurts--" Julian moved to his uncle's side, reaching to grip his arm, but Arthur threw him off, rising to his feet, his breath uneven. "I must excuse myself," he said. "My headache. It is unbearable." He looked horribly unwell, it was true. His skin was the color of dirty chalk, his collar sticking to his throat with sweat. Both Kieran and larlath said nothing. Neither did Mark, who still stood swaying blindly on his feet. The fey watched Arthur with avid curiosity burning in their eyes. Emma could read their thoughts. The head of the Los Angeles Institute. He is weak, unwell.... The inner doors rattled, and Diana came in. She looked cool and calm as always. Her dark gaze took in the scene before her. Her glance brushed over Emma once; there was cold anger in it. "Arthur," she said. "You are needed upstairs. Do go. I will escort the convoy outside to discuss the bargain." How long was she out there eavesdropping? Emma wondered as Arthur, looking desperately grateful, limped past Diana and toward the door. Diana was as quiet as a cat when she wanted to be. "Is he dying?" larlath asked with some curiosity, his gaze following Arthur as he left the Sanctuary. "We're mortal," Emma said. "We get sick, we age. We're not like you. But it's nothing that should be a surprise." "Enough," Diana said. "I will lead you from the Sanctuary, but first-- the translation." She held out a slim brown hand. Kieran handed over the near-translucent papers with a wry look. Diana glanced down at them. "What does the first line say?" Emma said, unable to stop herself. Diana frowned. "Fire to water," she said. "What does that mean?" larlath gave her a single cool look and moved to join her. "It will be the task of your people to find out." Fire to water? Emma thought of the bodies of her parents, drowned and then crumbling like ashes. Of the body of the man in the alley, scorched and then soaked in seawater. She looked at Julian, wondering if his mind was following the same paths as hers--but no, he was looking at his brother, unmoving, as if frozen in place. She itched to get her hands on the papers, but they were folded into Diana's jacket, and Diana was leading the two faerie men toward the Sanctuary exit. "You understand that we will be investigating this without the knowledge of the Clave," she said as larlath fell into step beside her. Kieran walked behind them, scowling. "We understand that you fear your government, yes," said larlath. "We fear them too, the architects of the Cold Peace." Diana didn't rise to the bait. "If you must contact us during the investigation, you'll need to take care in doing so." "We will come only to the Sanctuary, and you may leave messages here for us," said Kieran. "If we hear that you have spoken of our bargain to anyone outside these walls, especially one who is not Nephilim, we will be most displeased. Mark, too, is under orders of secrecy from the Hunt. You will find he will not disobey them." Sunlight speared into the Sanctuary as Diana opened the doors. Emma felt a flash of gratitude for her tutor as Diana and the two faeries vanished outside. Gratitude for sparing Arthur--and for sparing Julian one more second of pretending he was all right. For Jules was looking at his brother--finally, really looking at him, with no one to see or judge his weakness. With no one to, at the last moment, take Mark away from him again. Mark raised his head slowly. He was thin as a lath, so much narrower and more angular than Emma remembered him. He didn't seem to have aged so much as sharpened, as if the bones of chin and cheek and jaw had been refined with careful tools. He was gaunt but graceful, in the manner of the fey. "Mark," Julian breathed out, and Emma thought of the nightmares Jules had woken up from over the years, screaming for his brother, for Mark, and how hopeless he had sounded, and how lost. He was pale now, but his eyes were shining as if he were looking at a miracle. And it was a sort of miracle, Emma thought: The faeries didn't give back what they had taken. Or at least, they never gave it back unchanged. A chill ran suddenly up Emma's veins, but she didn't make a sound. She didn't move as Julian took a step toward his brother, and then another one, and then spoke, his voice breaking. "Mark," he whispered. "Mark. It's me." Mark looked Julian straight in the face. There was something about his two-colored eyes; both eyes had been blue when Emma had last seen him, and the bifurcation seemed to speak to something broken inside him, like a piece of pottery cracked along the glaze. He looked at Julian--taking in his height, his broad shoulders and lanky frame, his tousled brown hair, his Blackthorn eyes--and he spoke for the first time. His voice sounded rough, scraped, as if he had not used it in days. "Father?" he said, and then, as Julian drew in a startled breath, Mark's eyes rolled back in his head and he collapsed to the floor in a dead faint. <|title|>Chapter 6: Many Far Wiser <|startofchapter|>Mark's bedroom was full of dust. They had left it untouched for years after he disappeared. Finally, on what would have been his eighteenth birthday, Julian had thrown the door of the room open and cleared it out in a savage spree. Mark's clothes, toys, games, all had gone into storage. The room was cleaned out and stripped down, a bare, empty space waiting for decoration. Emma moved around, pushing back dusty curtains and opening windows, letting in light, while Julian, who had carried his brother up the stairs, set Mark down on the bed. The blankets were pulled tight, a thin layer of dust across the coverlet. It puffed up as he set Mark down; Mark coughed but didn't stir. Emma turned away from the windows; open, they flooded the room with light and turned the dust motes in the air into dancing creatures. "He's so thin," Julian said. "He hardly weighs anything at all." Someone who didn't know him might have thought he was expressionless: His face betrayed only a kind of tightening of the muscles, his soft mouth compressed into a hard line. It was the way he looked when he was struck to the heart with some strong emotion and was trying to hide it, usually from his younger siblings. Emma came over to the bed. For a moment they both stood looking down at Mark. Indeed, the curves of elbows and knees and collarbone were painfully sharp under the clothes he wore: ragged jeans and a T-shirt gone almost transparent with years and washing. Tangled blond hair half-covered his face. "Is it true?" said a small voice from the doorway. Emma whirled around. Ty and Livia had come into the room, only a little way. Cristina was in the doorway behind them; she looked at Emma as if to say she'd tried to hold them back. Emma shook her head. She knew how impossible it was to stop the twins when they wanted to be part of something. It was Livvy who had spoken. She looked across the room now, past Emma, to where Mark lay on the bed. She sucked in a breath. "It is true." "It can't be." Ty's hands were fluttering at his sides. He was counting on his fingers, one to ten, ten to one. The gaze he fixed on his unconscious brother was full of disbelief. "The Fair Folk don't give back what they take." "No," Julian said, his voice gentle, and Emma wondered not for the first time how he could be so gentle when she knew he must feel like screaming and flying apart into a thousand pieces. "But sometimes they give you back what belongs to you." Ty said nothing. His hands were still fluttering in their repetitive movements. There had been a time when Ty's father had tried to train him to immobility, had held his son's hands tightly at his sides when he was upset and said, "Still, still." It had panicked Ty into throwing up. Julian never did that. He just said everyone got butterflies when they were nervous; some people got them in their stomachs, and Ty showed his in his hands. Ty had been pleased by that. He loved moths, butterflies, bees--anything with wings. "He doesn't look like I remember," said a tiny voice. It was Dru, who had edged into the room around Cristina. She was holding hands with Tavvy. "Well," said Emma. "Mark is five years older now." "He doesn't look older," said Dru. "He just looks different." There was a silence. Dru was right. Mark didn't look older, certainly not five years older. Partly it was because he was so thin, but there was more to it than that. "He's been in Faerie all these years," Julian said. "And time--time works differently there." Ty stepped forward. His gaze raked the bed, examining his brother. Drusilla hung back. She'd been eight when Mark had gone; Emma couldn't imagine what her memories of him were like--cloudy and blurred, probably. And as for Tavvy--Tavvy had been two. To him the boy in the bed would be a total stranger. But Ty. Ty would remember. Ty moved closer to the bed, and Emma could almost see the quick mind working behind his gray eyes. "That would make sense. There are all sorts of stories about people vanishing for a night with the faeries and coming back to find a hundred years have passed. Five years could have been like two years for him. He looks about the same age as you, Jules.'' Julian cleared his throat. "Yeah. Yeah, he does." Ty cocked his head to the side. "Why did they bring him back?" Julian hesitated. Emma didn't move; she didn't know, any more than he did, how to tell the children who were looking at them with wide eyes that the lost brother who appeared to have been returned to them forever might be here only temporarily. "He's bleeding," Dru said. "What?" Julian tapped the witchlight lamp at the side of the bed and the glow in the room intensified to a hot brightness. Emma drew in her breath. The side of Mark's ragged white T-shirt, at his shoulder, was red with blood-- a patch that was slowly spreading. "Stele," Julian barked, holding out his hand. He was already pulling at his brother's shirt, baring his shoulder and collarbone, where a half- healed gash had opened. Blood was trickling from the wound, not fast, but Tavvy made an inarticulate sound of distress. Emma pulled her stele from her belt and threw it. She didn't say anything; she didn't need to. Julian's hand came up and he caught it out of the air. He bent to press the tip to Mark's skin, to begin the healing rune-- Mark screamed. His eyes flew open, bright and crazed, and he thrashed out at the air with his stained, dirty, bloody hands. "Get it away," he snarled, struggling upright. "Get it away, get that thing away from me!" "Mark--" Julian reached for his brother, but Mark batted him away. He might have been thin, but he was strong; Julian stumbled, and Emma felt it like a burst of pain in the back of her head. She dashed forward, putting herself between the two brothers. She was about to shout at Mark, to tell him to stop, when she caught sight of his face. His eyes were wide and white with fear, his hand clutched to his chest--there was something there, something that glittered at the end of a cord around his throat--and then he hurled himself off the bed, his body jerking, hands and feet scrabbling at the hardwood. "Move back," Julian said to his siblings, not shouting, but his voice quick and authoritative. They scrambled away, scattering. Emma caught a glimpse of Tavvy's unhappy face as Dru lifted him off his feet and carried him out of the room. Mark had darted into the corner of the bedroom, where he froze, his hands wrapped around his knees, his back pressed hard to the wall. Julian started after his brother, then stopped, the stele dangling helplessly from his hand. "Don't touch me with that," Mark said, and his voice--very recognizably Mark's voice, and very cold and precise--was shockingly at odds with the filthy scarecrow look of him. He held them at bay with his glare. "What's wrong with him?" Livvy asked in a near whisper. "It's the stele." It was Julian, voice soft. "But why?" said Emma. "How can a Shadowhunter be afraid of a stele?" "You call me afraid?" demanded Mark. "Insult me again and find your blood spilled, girl." "Mark, this is Emma," Julian said. "Emma Carstairs." Mark pressed himself farther back into the wall. "Lies," he said. "Lies and dreams." "I'm Julian," Jules said. "Your brother Julian. And that's Tiberius--" "My brother Tiberius is a child!" Mark shouted, suddenly livid, his hands clawing behind him at the wall. "He is a little boy." There was a horrified silence. "I'm not," said Ty, finally, into the quiet. His hands were fluttering at his sides, pale butterflies in the dim light. "I'm not a child." Mark said nothing. He closed his eyes, and tears slid out from beneath his lids, tracking down his face, mixing with the dirt. "Enough." To everyone's surprise, it was Cristina who had spoken. She looked embarrassed as everyone turned to look at her, but stood her ground, chin up, straight-backed. "Can't you see this is tormenting him? If we were to go into the hall--" "You go," said Julian, looking at Mark. "I'll stay here." Cristina shook her head. "No." She sounded apologetic but firm. "All of us." She paused as Julian hesitated. "Please," she said. She crossed the room and opened the door. Emma watched in amazement as the Blackthorns, one by one, filed out of the room; a moment later they were all standing in the corridor, and Cristina was shutting the door of Mark's room behind her. "I don't know," Julian said immediately as the door clicked shut. "Leaving him alone in there--" "It's his room," Cristina said. Emma stared at her in amazement; how could she be so calm? "But he doesn't remember it," Livvy said, looking agitated. "He doesn't remember--anything." "He does remember," Emma said, laying a hand on Livvy's shoulder. "It's just that everything he remembers has changed." "We haven't." Livvy looked so woebegone that Emma pulled her close and kissed the top of her head, which was no mean feat since Livvy was only an inch shorter than her. "Oh, you have," she said. "We all have. And so has Mark." Ty looked agitated. "But the room is dusty," he said. "We threw out his things. He'll think we forgot him, that we don't care." Julian winced. "I kept his things. They're in one of the storerooms on the ground floor." "Good." Cristina brought her hands together sharply. "He'll need them. And more. Clothes to replace the ones he's wearing. Anything of his that was kept. Anything that'll seem familiar. Photos, or things he might remember." "We can get those," said Livvy. "Me and Ty." Ty looked relieved to have been given a specific task. He and Livvy headed downstairs, their voices a low murmur. Julian, looking after them, exhaled raggedly--mingled tension and relief. "Thanks for giving them something to do." Emma reached out to squeeze Cristina's hand. She felt oddly proud, as if she wanted to point to Cristina and say: "Look, my friend knows exactly what to do!" "How do you know exactly what to do?" she asked aloud, and Cristina blinked. "This is my field of study, remember," Cristina said. "Faerie and the results of the Cold Peace. Of course the Folk have returned him to you with demands, that is part of their cruelty. He needs time to recover, to begin to recognize this world and his life again. Instead they would thrust him back into it as if it would be easy for him to be a Shadowhunter again." Julian leaned back against the wall beside the door. Emma could see the dark fire in his eyes, banked under his lowered eyelids. "They injured him," he said. "Why?" "So you would do what you did," said Emma. "So you would get a stele." He cursed, short and harsh. "So I would see what they did to him, how he hates me?" "He doesn't hate you," said Cristina. "He hates himself. He hates that he is Nephilim, because they would have taught that to him. Hate for hate. They are an old people and that is their idea of justice." "How is Mark?" It was Diana, emerging at the top of the stairs. She hurried toward them, her skirts whispering around her ankles. "Is someone in there with him?" As Julian explained what had happened, Diana listened silently. She was buckling on her weapons belt. She had put on boots, and her hair was tied back. A leather satchel was slung over her shoulder. "Hopefully he can rest," she said when Julian finished. "Kieran said the journey here took them two days through Faerie, no sleep, he's probably exhausted." "Kieran?" said Emma. "It's weird calling gentry faeries by their first names. He is gentry, right?" Diana nodded. "Kieran's a prince of Faerie; he didn't say so, but it's obvious, larlath is from the Unseelie Court, not a prince, but some sort of Court member. You can tell." Julian glanced toward the door of his brother's room. "I should go back in there--" "No," Diana said. "You and Emma are going to Malcolm Fade's." She fished into her satchel and came out with the faerie documents that Kieran had given to her earlier. Up close Emma could see that they were two sheets of parchment, thin as onionskin. The ink on them looked as if it had been carved there. "Take this to him. See what he can make of it." "Now?" Emma said. "But--" "Now," said Diana flatly. "The Folk have given you--given us--three weeks. Three weeks with Mark to solve this. Then they take him back." "Three weeks?" Julian echoed. "That's not nearly enough time." "I could go with them," Cristina said. "I need you here, Cristina," said Diana. "Someone has to watch over Mark, and it can't be one of the children. And it can't be me. I have to go." "Go where?" Emma demanded. But Diana only shook her head, unforthcoming. It was a familiar wall. Emma had crashed against it more than once. "It's important," was all Diana said. "You'll have to trust me." Julian said nothing. Emma suspected Diana's aloofness bothered him as much, if not more, than it bothered her, but he never showed it. "But this changes things," Emma said, and she fought down the emotion in her voice, the spark of relief, even triumph, that she knew she shouldn't feel. "Because of Mark. Because of Mark, you're willing to let us try to find out who did this." "Yes." For the first time since she'd come into the hallway, Diana looked directly at Emma. "You must be pleased," she said. "You got exactly what you wanted. We've got no choice now. We'll have to investigate these killings, and we'll have to do it without the knowledge of the Clave." "I didn't make this happen," Emma protested. "No situation in which you have no choice is a good one, Emma," Diana said. "Which you will eventually learn. I only hope it isn't too late. You might think this is a good thing that's happened, but I can assure you it isn't." She turned away from Emma, fixing her attention on Julian. "As you well know, Julian, this is an illegal investigation. The Cold Peace forbids cooperation with the Fair Folk, and certainly forbids what amounts to working for them, no matter the inducement. It's to our advantage to figure this out as quickly and cleanly as we can, so the Clave has as little opportunity as possible to find out what we're doing." "And when it's done?" Julian said. "And Mark's back? How do we explain that?" Something in Diana's eyes shifted. "We'll worry about that when it happens." "So we're racing the Clave and the Courts," said Julian. "Fantastic. Maybe there's someone else we can piss off. The Spiral Labyrinth? The Scholomance? Interpol?" "No one's pissed off yet," said Diana. "Let's just keep it that way." She handed the papers to Emma. "Just to be clear: We can't cooperate with the Fair Folk and we can't harbor Mark without reporting it, except obviously we're going to, so the upshot is that no one outside the building can know. And I refuse to lie to the Clave directly, so hopefully we can get this done with before they start asking questions." She looked at them each in turn, her expression serious. "We have to work together. Emma, no more fighting me. Cristina, if you want to be reassigned to another Institute, we'll understand. We'd just ask you to keep this to yourself." Emma gasped. "No!" Cristina was already shaking her head. "I don't need a new assignment," she said. "I will keep your secret. I will make it my secret too." "Good," Diana said. "Speaking of keeping things secret, don't tell Malcolm how we got our hands on these papers. Don't mention Mark, don't mention the faerie delegation. If he says anything, he'll have me to deal with." "Malcolm's our friend," said Julian. "We can trust him." "I'm trying to make sure he doesn't get in trouble if anyone finds out," she said. "He needs to be able to deny it." She zipped up her jacket. "Okay, I'll be back tomorrow. Good luck." "Threatening the High Warlock," Julian muttered as Diana disappeared down the hall. "Better and better. Maybe we should head down to vampire clan headquarters and punch Anselm Nightshade in the face?" "But think of the consequences," Emma said. "No more pizza." Julian gave her a wry sideways-looking smile. "I could go to Malcolm's alone," Emma said. "You could stay here, Jules, wait for Mark to--" She didn't finish. She wasn't sure she knew what exactly they were waiting for Mark to do, that any of them knew. "No," Julian said. "Malcolm trusts me. I know him the best. I can convince him to keep this secret." He straightened up. "We'll both go." As parabatai. As we should. Emma nodded and caught at Cristina's hand. "We'll make it as fast as we can," she said. "You'll be all right?" Cristina nodded. Her hand was at her throat, her fingers resting on her necklace. "I will watch over Mark," she said. "It will be all right. Everything wW be all right." And Emma almost believed her. Being a High Warlock must pay well, Emma thought, as she always did when she saw Malcolm Fade's house. It looked like a castle. Malcolm lived up the highway from the Institute, past Kanan Dume Road. It was a spot where the bluffs rose high above, threaded with green sea grass. The house was shrouded by glamour spells, hiding it from mundanes. If you were driving--which Emma was--you had to look hard at a spot between two bluffs, and a silvery bridge that climbed up into the hills would appear. Emma pulled over to the side of the highway. Lines of cars were parked along the sides of the PCH here, most of them surfers drawn by the wide beach to the west. Emma exhaled, turning the car off. "Okay," she said. "We--" "Emma," Julian said. She paused. Julian had been almost completely silent since they'd left the Institute. She couldn't blame him. She couldn't find words herself. She'd let the distraction of driving take her, the need to concentrate on the road. She'd been aware of him beside her the whole time, though, his head back against the seat, his eyes closed, his fist clenched against the knee of his jeans. "Mark thought I was my father," said Julian abruptly, and she could tell he was remembering that awful moment, the look of hope in his brother's eyes, a hope that had nothing to do with him. "He didn't recognize me." "He remembers you twelve," Emma said. "He remembers all of you as so young." "And you, too." "I doubt he remembers me at all." He unsnapped his seat belt. Light sparked off the bracelet of sea glass he wore on his left wrist, turning it to bright colors: flame red, fire gold. Blackthorn blue. "He does," he said. "No one could forget you." She blinked at him in surprise. A moment later Julian was out of the car. She scrambled to follow him, slamming the driver's side door as cars whizzed by just a lane away. Jules was standing at the foot of Malcolm's bridge, looking up toward the house. She could see his shoulder blades under the thin cotton of his T-shirt, the nape of his neck, a shade lighter than the rest of his skin where his hair had kept it from getting tanned. "The Fair Folk are tricksters," Julian said without turning. "They won't want to give Mark up: Faerie blood and Shadowhunter blood together, that's too valuable. There'll be some clause that'll allow them to take him back when we're done." "Well, it's up to him," said Emma. "He gets to choose whether to stay or go." Julian shook his head. "A choice seems simple, I know," he said. "But a lot of choices aren't simple." They began to climb the stairs. The staircase was helical, twisting upward through the hills. It was glamoured, visible only to supernatural creatures. The first time Emma had visited, Malcolm had escorted her; she had looked down in wonder at all the mundanes speeding by below in their cars, entirely unaware that above them, a crystal staircase rose impossibly against the sky. She was more used to it now. Once you'd seen the staircase, it would never be invisible to you again. Julian didn't say anything else as they walked, but Emma found she didn't mind. What he'd said in the car--he'd meant it. His gaze had been level and direct as he'd spoken. It had been Julian talking, her Jules, the one who lived in her bones and her brain and at the base of her spine, the one who was threaded all through her like veins or nerves. The staircase ended abruptly in a path to Malcolm's front door. You were meant to climb down, but Emma jumped, her feet landing on the hard-packed dirt. A moment later Julian had landed beside her and reached out to steady her, his fingers five warm lines across her back. She didn't need the help--of the two of them, she likely had the better balance--but, she realized, it was something he'd always done, unthinkingly. A protective reflex. She glanced toward him, but he seemed lost in thought, barely noticing that they were touching. He moved away as the staircase behind them vanished back into its glamour. They were standing in front of two obelisks that thrust up out of the dusty ground, forming a gateway. Each was carved with alchemical symbols: fire, earth, water, air. The path that led up to the warlock's house was lined with desert plants: cactus, sagebrush, California lilacs. Bees buzzed among the flowers. The dirt turned to crushed seashells as they neared the brushed-metal front doors. Emma knocked and the doors slid open with a near-silent hiss. The hallways inside Malcolm's house were white, lined with pop-art reproductions, snaking off in a dozen different directions. Julian was at her side, unobtrusive; he hadn't brought his crossbow with him, but she felt the ridge of a knife strapped to his wrist when he nudged her with his arm. "Down the hall," he said. "Voices." They moved toward the living room. It was all steel and glass, entirely circular, giving out onto views of the sea. Emma thought it looked like the sort of place a movie star might own--everything was modern, from the sound system that piped in classical music to the infinity-edged swimming pool that hung over the cliffs. Malcolm was sprawled on the long couch that ran the length of the room, his back to the Pacific. He wore a black suit, very plain and clearly expensive. He was nodding and smiling agreeably as two men in much the same kind of dark suits stood over him with briefcases in hand, speaking in low, urgent voices. Malcolm, seeing them, waved. The vistors were white men in their forties with nondescript faces. Malcolm made a nonchalant gesture with his fingers, and they froze in place, eyes staring blankly. "It always creeps me out when you do that," Emma said. She walked up to one of the frozen men and poked him thoughtfully. He tilted slightly. "Don't break the movie producer," said Malcolm. "I'd have to hide the body in the rock garden." "You're the one who froze him." Julian sat down on the arm of the couch. Emma slumped down onto the cushions beside him, feet on the coffee table. She wiggled her toes in their sandals. Malcolm blinked. "But how else am I meant to talk to you without them hearing?" "You could ask us to wait till your meeting is over," Julian said. "It probably wouldn't be a major risk to any lives." "You're Shadowhunters. It could always be life-or-death," said Malcolm, not unreasonably. "Besides, I'm not sure I want the job. They're movie producers and they want me to cast a spell to ensure the success of their new release. But it looks terrible." He stared glumly at the poster on the sofa beside him. It showed several birds flying toward the viewer, with the caption EAGLE EXPLOSION THREE: FEATHERS FLY. "Does anything happen in this movie that wasn't adequately covered in Eagle Explosion One and Two?" Julian asked. "More eagles." "Does it matter if it's terrible? Terrible movies do well all the time," Emma pointed out. She knew more about movies than she wished she did. Most Shadowhunters paid little attention to mundane culture, but you couldn't live in Los Angeles and escape it. "It means a stronger spell. More work for me. But it does pay well. And I've been thinking of installing a train in my house. It could bring me shrimp crackers from the kitchen." "A train?" Julian echoed. "How big a train?" "Small. Medium. Like this." Malcolm gestured, low to the ground. "It would go 'choo-choo'--" He snapped his fingers to punctuate the noise, and the movie producers jerked into life. "Whoops," Malcolm said as they blinked. "Didn't mean to do that." "Mr. Fade," said the older one. "You'll consider our offer?" Malcolm looked dispiritedly at the poster. "I'll get in touch." The producers turned toward the front door, and the younger one jumped at the sight of Emma and Julian. Emma could hardly blame him. From his perspective, they must have appeared out of thin air. "Sorry, gents," said Malcolm. "My niece and nephew. Family day, you know." The mundanes looked from Malcolm to Jules and Emma and back again, clearly wondering how someone who looked twenty-seven could possibly have a niece and nephew in their teens. The older one shrugged. "Enjoy the beach," he said, and they marched out, brushing by Emma with a whiff of expensive cologne and the rattle of briefcases. Malcolm stood up, listing a bit to one side--he had a slightly awkward way of walking that made Emma wonder if he'd once been injured and hadn't completely healed. "Everything all right with Arthur?" Julian tensed beside Emma, almost imperceptibly, but she felt it. "The family's fine, thanks." Malcolm's violet eyes, his warlock's mark, darkened before clearing like a sky briefly touched by clouds. His expression as he ambled over to the bar that ran along one wall and poured himself a glass of clear liquid was amiable. "Then what can I help you with?" Emma moved over toward the couch. They had made copies of the papers the faeries had given them. She set them down on the coffee table. "You remember what we were talking about the other night. ..." Malcolm put his glass aside and picked up the papers. "That demon language again," he said. "The one that was on that body you found in the alley, and on your parents' bodies . . ." He paused to whistle through his teeth. "Look at that," he said, stabbing his finger at the first page. "Someone's translated the first line. Fire to water." "It's a breakthrough, right?" Emma said. Malcolm shook his bone-white head of hair. "Maybe, but I can't do anything with this. Not if it's a secret from Diana and Arthur. I can't get involved in something like that." "It's fine with Diana," Emma said. Malcolm gave her a dubious look. "Seriously. Call her and ask--" She broke off as a man ambled into the room, hands in his pockets. He looked about twenty, tall, with spiked black hair and cat's eyes. He wore a white suit that contrasted crisply with his brown skin. "Magnus!" Emma said, jumping to her feet. Magnus Bane was the High Warlock of Brooklyn, and also held the warlock's seat on the Council of Shadowhunters. He was possibly the most famous warlock in the world, though you'd never guess it; he seemed young, and had been kind and friendly to Emma and the Blackthorns since he'd met them during the Dark War. She'd always liked Magnus. He seemed to bring a sense of infinite possibility with him wherever he went. He looked the same as the last time she'd seen him, down to his sardonic smile and the heavy jeweled rings on his fingers. "Emma, Julian. A pleasure. What are you doing here?" Emma darted her gaze toward Julian. They might have been fond of Magnus, but she could tell from Julian's expression--it was quickly hidden, smoothed over by a look of mild interest, but she could still see it--that he wasn't thrilled Magnus was there. This was already going to be a secret Malcolm needed to keep. Adding someone else in . . . especially someone on the Council... "What are you doing in town?" Julian's tone was casual. "Ever since the Dark War, the Clave has been tracking incidences of the kind of magic Sebastian Morgenstern used," said Magnus. "Energy raised from evil sources. Hell dimensions and the like, to draw power and extend life. Necyomanteis, the Greeks called it." "Necromancy," Emma translated. Magnus nodded. "We built a map," he said, "with help from the Spiral Labyrinth, from the Silent Brothers--even Zachariah--that reveals where necromantic magic is being used. We caught a flare of it here in Los Angeles, out by the desert, so I thought I'd stop by, see if Malcolm knew about it." "It was a rogue necromancer," said Malcolm. "Diana said she took care of him." "God, I hate rogue necromancers," said Magnus. "Why can't they just follow the rules?" "Probably because the biggest rule is 'no necromancy'?" Emma suggested. Magnus grinned at her, sideways. "Anyway. It was no big deal for me to stop by here on my way to Buenos Aires." "What's in Buenos Aires?" said Julian. "Alec," Magnus said. Alexander Lightwood was Magnus's boyfriend of half a decade. They could have gotten married under the new laws that allowed Shadowhunters to marry Downworlders (other than faeries), but they hadn't. Emma didn't know why. "Routine check on a vampire" worshipping cult, but he ran into some trouble there." "Nothing serious?" said Julian. He'd known Alec Lightwood longer than Emma had; the Blackthorns and the Lightwoods had been friends for years. "Complicated, but not serious," said Magnus, just as Malcolm pushed himself away from the wall. "I'm going to go call Diana. Be right back," he said, and vanished down the hallway. "So." Magnus sat down on the couch, in the place Malcolm had just vacated. "What brings you to the High Warlock of the City of Angels?" Emma exchanged a worried look with Julian, but short of diving across the table and whacking Magnus over the head--inadvisable for so many reasons --she couldn't think of anything to do. "Something you're not supposed to tell me, I take it." Magnus templed his hands under his chin. "About the killings?" At their surprised looks, he added, "I have friends at the Scholomance. Catarina Loss, for one. Anything about rogue magic or the Fair Folk interests me. Is Malcolm helping out?" Julian shook his head, a minute gesture. "Some of the bodies were fey," said Emma. "We're not meant to get involved. The Cold Peace--" "The Cold Peace is despicable," Magnus said, and the humor had gone out of his voice. "Punishing a whole species for the actions of a few. Denying them rights. Exiling your sister," he added, looking at Julian. "I've spoken to her. She helped make the map I spoke of; any magic that global involves the wards. How often do you talk to her?" "Every week," said Jules. "She said you always told her that everything was fine," said Magnus. "I think she was worried you weren't telling her the truth." Julian said nothing. It was true that he talked to Helen every week; they all did, passing the phone or computer back and forth. And it was also true that Julian never told her anything except that everything was fine, they were all fine, there was no need for her to worry. "I remember her wedding," Magnus said, and there was gentleness in his eyes. "How young you both were. Though it wasn't the last wedding I saw you at, was it?" Emma and Julian exchanged puzzled glances. "I'm pretty sure it was," said Julian. "What other wedding would it have been?" "Hm," said Magnus. "Perhaps my memory is going in my old age." He didn't sound as if he thought that was likely, though. He leaned back instead, sliding his long legs under the coffee table. "As for Helen, I'm sure it's just an older sibling's anxiety. Certainly Alec worries about Isabelle, whether it's warranted or not." "What do you think about ley lines?" Emma asked abruptly. Magnus's eyebrows flew up. "What about them? Spells done at ley lines are amplified." "Does it matter what kind of magic? Dark magic, warlock magic, faerie magic?" Magnus frowned. "It depends. But it's unusual to use a ley line to amplify dark magic. Usually they're used to move power. Like a delivery system for magic--" "Well, how about that." Malcolm, returning to the living room, darted an amused look at Emma. "Diana corroborates your story. Color me astonished." His gaze moved to Magnus. "What's going on?" A light flashed in his eyes, whether amusement or something else, Emma couldn't quite tell. Sometimes Malcolm seemed completely childlike, going on about trains and shrimp crackers and eagle movies. At other times he seemed as sharp and focused as anyone she knew. Magnus stretched his arms along the back of the sofa. "We were talking about ley lines. I was saying they amplify magic, but only certain kinds of magic. Magic that has to do with energy transferrals. Didn't you and Catarina Loss run into some kind of trouble with ley lines back when you lived in Cornwall, Malcolm?" A vague expression passed over Malcolm's face. "I can't remember precisely. Magnus, stop bothering Emma and Julian," he said, and there was a tinge of something like annoyance in his voice. Professional jealousy, Emma guessed. "This is my domain. You've got your own hopeless humans in New York." "One of those hopeless humans is the father of my child," Magnus pointed out. Magnus had not ever been pregnant, though that would have been interesting, Emma thought. He and Alec Lightwood had an adopted warlock child, named Max, who was a scintillating shade of navy blue. "And," Magnus added, "the rest of them have all saved the world, at least once." Malcolm gestured toward Julian and Emma. "I have high hopes for these." Magnus's face broke into a grin. "I'm sure you're right," he said. "Anyway, I should go. Long trip ahead of me and Alec doesn't like me to be late." There was a flurry of good-byes. Magnus clapped Malcolm on the arm and paused to hug Julian, and then Emma. His shoulder bumped her forehead as he bent his head, and she heard his voice in her ear, whispering. She looked at him in surprise, but he only let her go and marched toward the door, whistling. Halfway to the door there was the familiar shimmer and burned- sugar smell of Portal magic, and Magnus disappeared. "Did you tell him about the investigation?" Malcolm looked anxious. "He mentioned ley lines." "I asked him about them," Emma admitted. "But I didn't say why I wanted to know. And I didn't mention anything about translating the markings." Malcolm circled around to look at the paper again. "I don't suppose you'll tell me who untangled the first line? Fire to water. It would help to know what it means." "We can't," Julian said. "But I don't think the translator knew what it meant either. You can use it, though, right? To get the rest of the spell or message or whatever it is?" "Probably, though it would help if I knew the language." "It's a very old language," Emma said carefully. "Older than Nephilim." Malcolm sighed. "You're not giving me much. Okay, old demony language, very ancient. I'll check with the Spiral Labyrinth." "Be careful what you tell them," Julian said. "Like we said--the Clave can't know we're investigating this." "Which means faerie involvement," said Malcolm, amusement flickering across his face as he saw their horrified expressions. "Don't worry, I won't tell. I don't like the Cold Peace any more than any other Downworlder does." Julian was expressionless. He ought to take up a career playing poker, Emma thought. "How long do you think you'll need?" he asked. "To translate?" "Give me a few days." A few days. Emma tried to conceal her disappointment. "Sorry I can't do it any faster." Malcolm sounded genuinely sorry. "Come on. I'll walk you outside. I need some air." The sun had come out from behind the clouds and was blazing down on Malcolm's front garden. The desert flowers shivered, silver-edged, in the wind from the canyons. A lizard darted out from behind a piece of shrubbery and stared at them. Emma stuck her tongue out at it. "I'm worried," Malcolm said abruptly. "I don't like this. Necromantic magic, demon languages, a series of killings no one understands. Working without the Clave's knowledge. It seems, dare I say it, dangerous." Julian stared off toward the distant hills, silent. It was Emma who answered. "Malcolm, last year we fought off a battalion of Forneus demons with tentacles and no faces," Emma said. "Don't try to freak us out about this." "I'm just saying. Danger. You know, that thing most people avoid." "Not us," Emma said cheerfully. "Tentacles, Malcolm. No faces." "Stubborn." Malcolm sighed. "Just promise to call me if you need me or if you find out anything else." "Definitely," said Julian. Emma wondered if the cold knot of guilt that she felt at hiding things from Malcolm also sat in his chest. The wind off the ocean had picked up. It caught the dust in the garden and blew it into swirls. Julian pushed his hair out of his eyes. "Thanks for helping," he added. "We know we can depend on you." He headed down the path, toward the steps to the bridge, which shimmered alive as he approached it. Malcolm's face had turned somber, despite the bright noon light reflecting off the ocean. "Don't depend on me too much," he said, so softly she wondered if he knew she would hear him. "Why not?" She turned her face up to him in the sunlight, blinking. His eyes were the color of jacaranda blossoms. "Because I'll let you down. Everyone does," Malcolm said, and went back inside his house. <|title|>Chapter 7: The Sounding Sea <|startofchapter|>Cristina sat on the floor outside Mark Blackthorn's bedroom. There had been no sound from inside for what felt like hours. The door was cracked open and she could see him, curled into a ball in a corner of the room like a trapped wild animal. Faeries had been her area of study at home. She had always been fascinated by tales of the hadas, from the noble warriors of the Courts to the duendes who teased and bothered mundanes. She had not been in Idris for the declaration of the Cold Peace, but her father had, and the story sent a shiver through her. She had always wanted to meet Mark and Helen Blackthorn, to tell them-- Tiberius appeared in the hall, carrying a cardboard box. His twin sister was beside him, a patchwork quilt in her hand. "My mother made this for Mark when he was left with us," she said, catching Cristina eyeing it. "I thought he might remember." "We couldn't get into the storeroom, so we brought Mark some gifts. So he'd know we want him here," said Ty. His gaze moved restlessly around the hall. "Can we go in?" Cristina glanced into the bedroom. Mark was unmoving. "I don't see why not. Just try to be quiet and not wake him." Livvy went in first, laying the quilt on the bed. Ty set the cardboard box on the floor, then wandered over to where Mark was lying. He picked up the quilt that Livvy had set down and knelt beside his brother. A little awkwardly, he laid the quilt on top of Mark. Mark jerked upright. His blue-gold eyes flew open and he caught hold of Ty, who gave a sharp frightened cry like the cry of a seabird. Mark moved with incredible speed, flinging Ty to the ground. Livvy screamed and darted from the room, just as Cristina hurtled inside. Mark was kneeling over Tiberius, pinning him to the ground with his knees. "Who are you?" Mark was saying. "What were you doing?" "I'm your brother! I'm Tiberius!" Ty was wriggling madly, his headphones sliding off to hit the floor. "I was giving you a blanket!" "Liar!" Mark was breathing hard. "My brother Ty is a little boy! He's a child, my baby brother, my--" The door rattled behind Cristina. Livvy burst back into the room, her brown hair flying. "Let him go!" A seraph blade appeared in her hand, already beginning to glow. She spoke to Mark through gritted teeth, as if she'd never met him. As if she hadn't been carrying a patchwork quilt for him through the Institute only moments before. "If you hurt Tiberius, I'll kill you. I don't care if you're Mark, I'll kill you." Mark stilled. Ty was still writhing and twisting, but Mark had stopped moving entirely. Slowly, he turned his head toward his sister. "Livia?" Livvy gasped and began to sob. Julian would be proud, though, Cristina thought: She was weeping without moving, the blade still steady in her hand. Ty took advantage of Mark's distraction to hit at him, connecting solidly with Mark's shoulder. Mark winced and rolled away without striking back. Ty leaped to his feet and darted across the room to join Livvy; they stood shoulder to shoulder staring at their brother with wide eyes. "Both of you, go," Cristina said to them. She could feel the panic and worry rolling off them in waves; Mark could clearly feel it too. He was wincing, opening and closing his hands as if in pain. She bent down to whisper to the twins. "He's frightened. He didn't mean it." Livvy nodded and sheathed her blade. She took Ty's hand and said something to him in the quiet, private language they had. He followed her out of the room, pausing only briefly to look back at Mark, his expression hurt and bewildered. Mark was sitting up, panting, his body bent over his knees. He was bleeding from the reopened cut on his shoulder, staining his shirt. Cristina began to back slowly out of the bedroom. Mark's body tensed. "Please don't go," he said. Cristina stared. As far as she knew, this was the first coherent thing he'd said since arriving at the Institute. He lifted his chin, and for a brief moment she saw beneath the dirt, the bruises, and the scratches, the Mark Blackthorn she had seen pictures of, the Mark Blackthorn who could be related to Livvy and Julian and Ty. "I'm thirsty," he said. There was something rusty, almost disused, about his voice, like an old motor starting up again. "Is there water?" "Of course." Cristina fumbled a glass off the dresser and went into the small attached bathroom. When she emerged and handed the full glass to Mark, he was sitting up, his back against the footboard of the bed. He looked at the glass wryly. "Water from taps," he said. "I'd almost forgotten." He took a long swallow and wiped his mouth with the back of his hand. "Do you know who I am?" "You're Mark," she said. "Mark Blackthorn." There was a long pause before he nodded, almost imperceptibly. "No one has called me that in a long time." "It's still your name." "Who are you?" he said. "I should remember, probably, but--" "I'm Cristina Mendoza Rosales," she said. "There is no reason you should remember me, since we have never met before." "That's a relief." Cristina was surprised. "Is it?" "If you don't know me and I don't know you, then you won't have any-- expectations." He looked suddenly exhausted. "Of who I am or what I'm like. I could be anyone to you." "Earlier," Cristina said. "On the bed. Were you sleeping or pretending?" "Does it matter?" he said, and Cristina couldn't help thinking that it was a most faerielike reply, a reply that didn't actually answer her question. He shifted against the footboard. "Why are you in the Institute?" Cristina knelt down, putting her head on a level with Mark's. She smoothed her skirt over her knees--even when she didn't want them to, her mother's words about how an off-duty Shadowhunter must always be neat and presentable echoed in her head. "I am eighteen," she said. "I was assigned to study the ways of the Los Angeles Institute as part of my travel year. How old are you?" This time Mark's hesitation went on for so long, Cristina wondered if he was going to speak at all. "I don't know," he said finally. "I was gone-- I thought I was gone--a long time. Julian was twelve. The others were babies. Ten and eight and two. Tavvy was two." "For them it has been five years," Cristina said. "Five years without you." "Helen," Mark said. "Julian. Tiberius. Livia. Drusilla. Octavian. Every night I counted out their names among the stars, so I would not forget. Are they all living?" "Yes, all of them, though Helen is not here--she is married and lives with her wife." "Then they are living, and happy together? I am glad. I had heard the news of her wedding in Faerie, though it seems long ago now." "Yes." Cristina studied Mark's face. Angles, planes, sharpness, that curve at the top of his ear that spoke of faerie blood. "You have missed a great deal." "You think I don't know that?" Heat boiled up in his voice, mixed with bewilderment. "I don't know how old I am. I don't recognize my own sisters and brothers. I don't know why I'm here." "You do," said Cristina. "You were there when the faerie convoy was speaking to Arthur in the Sanctuary." He tilted his face toward hers. There was a scar across the side of his neck, not the mark of a vanished rune, but a raised welt. His hair was untidy and looked as if it had been uncut for months, years even. The curling white tips touched his shoulders. "Do you trust them? The faeries?" Cristina shook her head. "Good." He looked away from her. "You shouldn't." He reached for the cardboard box that Ty had left on the floor and pulled it toward him. "What is this?" "Things they thought you might want," Cristina said. "Your brothers and sisters." "Gifts of welcome," said Mark in a puzzled tone, and knelt down by the box, removing a hodgepodge of odd items--some T-shirts and jeans that were probably Julian's, a microscope, bread and butter, a handful of desert wildflowers from the garden behind the Institute. Mark raised his head to look at Cristina. His eyes glittered with unshed tears. His shirt was thin and ragged; she could see through the material, see other welts and scars on his skin. "What do I say to them?" "To who?" "My family. My brothers and sisters. My uncle." He shook his head. "I remember them, and yet I don't. I feel as if I have lived here all my life, and yet I have also always been with the Wild Hunt. I hear the roar of it in my ears, the call of the horns, the sound of the wind. It overpowers their voices. How do I explain that?" "Don't explain it," said Cristina softly. "Just say you love them and you missed them every day. Tell them you hated the Wild Hunt. Tell them you're glad to be back." "But why would I do that? Won't they know I'm lying?" "Didn't you miss them? Aren't you glad to be back?" "I don't know," he said. "I cannot hear my heart or what it tells me. I can only hear the wind." Before Cristina could reply, a sharp tap came at the window. It rattled again, a pattern of taps that sounded almost like a code. Mark sprang to his feet. He crossed the room to the window and flung it open, leaning out. When he ducked back in, there was something in his hand. An acorn. Cristina's eyes widened. Acorns were one of the ways faeries sent messages to each other. Hidden in leaves, flowers, and other wild things. "Already?" she said, unable to help it. They couldn't leave him even for this long, alone with his family, in his home? Looking pale and strained, Mark crushed the acorn in his fist. A twist of pale parchment fell out. He caught it and read the message silently. His hand opened. He slid to the floor, pulling his knees up against his chest, dropping his head in his hands. His long pale hair fell forward as the parchment fluttered to the ground. A low sound issued from his throat, halfway between a groan and a wail of pain. Cristina picked up the parchment. On it was written, in a delicate script. Remember your promises. Remember that none of it is real. "Fire to water," said Emma as they sped down the highway toward the Institute. "After all these years, I finally know what some of those markings mean." Julian was driving. Emma had her feet propped on the dashboard, her window down, the sea-softened air filling the car and lifting the light hair around her temples. This was how she'd always ridden in cars with Julian, with her feet up and the wind in her hair. It was something Julian loved, Emma beside him in the car, driving with the blue sky overhead and the blue sea to the west. It was an image that felt full of infinite possibility, as if they could simply keep driving forever, the horizon their only destination. It was a fantasy that played out sometimes when he was falling asleep. That he and Emma packed their things into the trunk of a car and left the Institute, in a world where he had no children and there was no Law and no Cameron Ashdown, where nothing held them back but the limits of their love and imagination. And if there were two things he believed were limitless, it was love and imagination. "It does sound like a spell," Julian said, wrenching his mind back to the present moment. He revved the engine, the wind rushing in through Emma's window as they gathered speed. Her hair lifted, pale corn silk spilling out from the neatness of her braids, making her look young and vulnerable. "But why would the spell be recorded on the bodies?" Emma asked. The thought of anything hurting her made an ache form inside his chest. And yet he was hurting her. He knew it. Knew it and hated it. He'd believed he'd had such a brilliant idea when he'd thought of taking the children to England for eight weeks. Knowing Cristina Rosales was coming, knowing Emma wouldn't be alone or unhappy. It had seemed perfect. He'd thought things would be different when he came back. That he would be different. But he wasn't. "What did Magnus say to you?" he asked as she looked out the window, her scarred fingers drumming an arrhythmic tattoo on her bent knee. "He whispered something." A furrow appeared between her brows. "He said that there are places where ley lines converge. I assume he means that since they bend and curve, there are locations where more than one of them meet. Maybe all of them." "And that's important because ... ?" She shook her head. "I don't know. We do know all the bodies have been dumped at ley lines, and that's a specific kind of magic. Maybe the convergences have some quality we need to understand. We should find a map of ley lines. I bet Arthur would know where to look in the library. If not, we can find it ourselves." "Good." "Good?" She sounded surprised. "It's going to take a few days for Malcolm to translate those papers, and I don't want to spend those days sitting around the Institute, staring at Mark, waiting for him to--waiting. It's better if we keep working, have something to do." His voice sounded stretched thin to his own ears. He hated it, hated any visible or audible sign of weakness. Though at least it was only with Emma, who he could show these things to. Emma, alone in his life, did not need his caretaking. Did not need him to be perfect or perfectly strong. Before Julian could say anything else, Emma's phone went off with a loud buzz. She pulled it out of her pocket. Cameron Ashdown. She frowned at the llama on the screen. "Not now," she told it, and shoved the phone back into her jeans. "Are you going to tell him?" Julian asked, and heard the stiffness in his own voice, and hated it. "About all of this?" "About Mark? I would never tell. Never." He kept his grip on the wheel tight, his jaw set. "You're my parabatai," she said, and now there was anger in her voice. "You know I wouldn't." Julian slammed on the brakes. The car lurched forward, the wheel slewing out of his hands. Emma yelped as they skidded off the road and bumped down into a ditch by the side of the highway, in between the road and the dunes over the sea. Dust was rising up around the car in plumes. Julian whirled toward Emma. She was white around the mouth. "Jules." "I didn't mean it," he said. She stared. "What?" "You being my parabatai is the best thing in my life," Julian said. The words were steady and simple, spoken without a trace of anything held back. He'd been holding back so tightly that the relief of it was almost unbearable. Impulsively she undid her safety belt, rising up in her seat to look down on him solemnly. The sun was high overhead. Up close he could see the gold lines inside the brown of her eyes, the faint spatter of light freckles across her nose, the bits of lighter, sun-bleached hair mixed with the darker hair at her nape. Raw umber and Naples yellow, mixed with white. He could smell rose water on her, and laundry detergent. She leaned into him, and his body chased the feeling of closeness, of having her back and near. Her knees bumped against his. "But you said--" "I know what I said." He turned toward her, slewing his body around in the driver's seat. "While I was away, I realized some things. Hard things. Maybe I even realized them before I left." "You can tell me what they are." She touched his cheek lightly. He felt his whole body lock into tension. "I remember what you said about Mark last night," she went on. "You were never the oldest brother. He always was. If he hadn't been taken, if Helen had been able to stay, you would have made different choices because you would have had someone to take care of you." He breathed out. "Emma." Raw pain. "Emma, I said what I said because-- because sometimes I think I asked you to be my parabatai because I wanted you to be tied to me. The Consul wanted you to go to the Academy and I couldn't stand the thought. I'd lost so many people. I didn't want to lose you, too." She was so close to him he could feel the heat from her sun-warmed skin. For a moment she said nothing, and he felt as if he were on the gallows, having the hangman's noose fastened around his throat. Waiting only for the drop. Then she put her hand over his on the console between them. Their hands. Hers were delicate-looking, but more scarred than his own, more calloused, her skin rough against his. His sea-glass bracelet glowed like jewels in the sunlight. "People do complicated things because people are complicated," she said. "All that stuff about how you're supposed to make the parabatai decision only for totally pure reasons, that's a crock." "I wanted to tie you to me," he said. "Because I was tied here. Maybe you should have gone to the Academy. Maybe it would have been the right place for you. Maybe I took something away from you." Emma looked at him. Her face was open and completely trusting. He almost thought he could feel his convictions shatter, the convictions he'd built up before he'd left at the beginning of the summer, the convictions he'd carried with him all the way back home until the moment he'd seen her again. He could feel them breaking inside him, like driftwood shattered against rocks. "Jules," she said. "You gave me a family. You gave me everything." A phone shrilled again. Emma's. Julian sat back, heart pounding, as she thumbed it out of her pocket. He watched as her face set. "Livvy's texting," she said. "She says Mark woke up. And he's screaming." Julian floored the car on the way home, Emma keeping her hands clasped around her knees as the speedometer crept up past eighty. They careened into the parking lot behind the Institute and slammed on the brakes. Julian threw himself out of the car and Emma raced after him. They reached the second floor to find the younger Blackthorns seated on the floor outside Mark's door. Dru was curled up with Tavvy against Livvy's side; Ty sat alone, his long hands dangling between his knees. They were all staring; the door was cracked partway open and through it Emma could hear Mark's voice, raised and angry, and then another voice, lower and more soothing--Cristina. "Sorry I texted," said Livvy in a small voice. "It's just that he was screaming and screaming. He finally stopped, but-- Cristina's in there with him. If any of the rest of us go in, he howls and yells." "Oh my God." Emma moved toward the door, but Julian caught her, swinging her around to face him. She looked over and saw that Ty had begun to rock back and forth, his eyes closed. It was something he did when things were too much: too loud, too harsh or hard or fast or painful. The world was extra intense for Ty, Julian had always said. It was as if his ears could hear more clearly, his eyes see more, and sometimes it was too much for him. He needed to cover noise, to feel something in his hand to distract him. He needed to rock back and forth to soothe himself. Everyone processed stress in a different way, Julian said. This was Ty's, and it hurt nobody. "Em," Julian said. His face was taut. "I need to go in alone." She nodded. He let go of her almost reluctantly. "Guys," he said, looking at his siblings--at Dru's round, worried face, Tavvy's uncomprehending one, Livvy's unhappy eyes, and Ty's hunched shoulders. "It's going to be hard for Mark. We can't expect him to be okay all at once. He's been away a long time. He has to get used to being here." "But we're his family," said Livvy. "Why would you have to get used to your own family?" "You might," Julian said, in that patient soft voice that amazed Emma sometimes, "if you'd been away from them a long time and you'd been somewhere where your mind plays tricks on you." "Like Faerie," said Ty. He had stopped rocking and was leaning back against the wall, dark hair damp and in his face. "Right," Julian said. "So we're going to have to give him time. Maybe leave him alone a little." He looked over at Emma. She pasted a smile onto her face--God, she was so much worse at this than Jules--and said, "Malcolm's working on the investigation. The murders. I thought we could head to the library and look into ley lines." "Me too?" Drusilla piped up. Emma said, "You can help us plot a map. Okay?" Dru nodded. "Okay." She rose to her feet and the others followed. As Emma led them away down the hall, a quietly subdued group, she looked back only once. Julian was standing by the door to Mark's room, watching them go. His eyes met hers for a split second before he looked away, as if he hadn't seen her glance at all. If only Emma was with him, Julian thought as he pushed open the door, this would be easier. It would have to be easier. When Emma was with him it was like he was breathing twice as much oxygen, had twice as much blood, had two hearts to drive the motion of his body. He put it down to the doubling magic of parabata'r. She made him twice what he would be otherwise. But he'd had to send her away with the kids; he didn't trust anyone else with them, and definitely not Arthur. Arthur, he thought bitterly, who was hiding in his attic while one of his nephews desperately tried to hold his family together and another one-- "Mark?" Julian said. The bedroom was dim, the curtains closed. He could just see that Cristina was sitting on the floor, her back to the wall. She had one hand pressed to the pendant at her throat, and the other at her hip, where something gleamed between her fingers. Mark was pacing back and forth at the foot of the bed, his hair hanging in his face. You could see how painfully thin he was; there was sinewy muscle on him, but it was the kind you got from starving sometimes and driving yourself anyway. His head jerked up when Julian said his name. Their eyes met and for a brief moment Julian saw a flicker of recognition in his brother's eyes. "Mark," he said again, and moved forward, his hand out. "It's me. It's Jules." "Don't--" Cristina started up, but it was too late. Mark had bared his teeth in an angry hiss. "Lies," he snarled. "Hallucinations--I know you--Gwyn sent you to trick me--" "I'm your brother," Julian said again. The look on Mark's face was wild. "You know the wishes of my heart," said Mark. "And you turn them against me, like knives." Julian looked across the room at Cristina. She was rising to her feet slowly, as if preparing to throw herself between the two brothers if needed. Mark whirled on Jules. His eyes were blind, unseeing. "You bring the twins in front of me and you kill them over and over. My Ty, he doesn't understand why I can't save him. You bring me Dru and when she laughs and asks to see the fairy-tale castle, all ringed round with hedges, you throw her against the thorns until they pierce her small body. And you bid me wash in Octavian's blood, for the blood of an innocent child is magic under the hill." Julian came no closer. He was remembering what Jace Herondale and Clary Fairchild had told him and his sister, their meeting with Mark years ago under the faerie hills, his broken eyes and the whip marks on his body. Mark was strong, he had told himself in the dead darkness of the thousand nights afterward. He could endure it. Julian had thought about only torture of the body. He had not thought about torture of the mind. "And Julian," Mark said. "He is too strong to break. You try to break him on the wheel, and tear him with thorns and blades, but even then he won't give up. So you bring to him Emma, for the wishes of our hearts are knives to you." That was too much for Julian. He lurched forward, grabbing hold of one of the posts of the bed to steady himself. "Mark," he said. "Mark Antony Blackthorn. Please. It's not a dream. You're really here. You're home." He reached for Mark's hand. Mark whipped it back, away from him. "You are lying smoke." "I'm your brother." "I have no brothers and sisters, no family. I am alone. I ride with the Wild Hunt. I am loyal to Gwyn the Hunter." Mark recited the words as if by rote. "I'm not Gwyn," said Julian. "I'm a Blackthorn. I have Blackthorn blood in me, just like you." "You are a phantom and a shadow. You are the cruelty of hope." Mark turned his face away. "Why do you punish me? I have done nothing to displease the Hunt." "There's no punishment here." Julian took a step closer to Mark. Mark didn't move, but his body trembled. "This is home. I can prove it to you." He glanced back over his shoulder. Cristina was standing very still against the wall, and he could see that the gleam in her hand was a knife. Clearly she was waiting to see if Mark would attack him. Julian wondered why she had been willing to stay in the room with Mark alone; hadn't she been afraid? "There is no proof," Mark whispered. "Not when you can weave any illusion before my eyes." "I'm your brother," Julian repeated. "And to prove it to you, I'll tell you something only your brother would know." At that Mark raised his eyes. Something flickered in them, like a light shining on distant water. "I remember the day you were taken," Julian said. Mark recoiled. "Any of the Folk would know about that--" "We were up in the training room. We heard noises, and you went downstairs. But before you went you said something to me. Do you remember?" Mark stood very still. "You said, 'Stay with Emma,' " Julian said. "You said to stay with her, and I have. We're parabatai now. I've looked after her for years and I always will, because you asked me to, because it was the last thing you ever said to me, because--" He remembered, then, that Cristina was there, and cut himself off abruptly. Mark was staring at him, silent. Julian felt despair well up inside him. Maybe this was a trick of the faeries; maybe they had given Mark back, but so broken and hollowed out that he wasn't Mark anymore. Maybe-- Mark nearly fell forward, and threw his arms around Julian. Julian barely managed to catch himself before almost falling over. Mark was whipcord thin, but strong, his hands fisting in Julian's shirt. Julian could feel Mark's heart hammering, feel the sharp bones under his skin. He smelled like earth and mildew and grass and nighttime air. "Julian," Mark said, muffled, his body shaking. "Julian, my brother, my brother." Somewhere in the distance, Julian heard the click of the bedroom door as it shut; Cristina had left them alone together. Julian sighed. He wanted to relax into his older brother, let Mark hold him up the way he once had. But Mark was slighter than he was, fragile under his hands. He would be holding Mark up from now on. It was not what he had imagined, dreamed of, but it was the reality. It was his brother. He tightened his hands on Mark and adjusted his heart to bear the new burden. The library in the Los Angeles Institute was small--nothing like the famous libraries of New York and London, but well-known regardless for its surprisingly large collection of books in Greek and Latin. They had more books on the magic and occultism of the classical period than the Institute in Vatican City. Once the library had been terra-cotta tile and Mission windows; now it was a starkly modern room. The old library had been destroyed in Sebastian Morgenstern's attack on the Institute, the books scattered among bricks and desert. Rebuilt, it was glass and steel. The floor was polished mountain ash, smooth and shining with applications of protective spells. A spiral ramp began at the north side of the first floor and climbed the walls; the outer side of the ramp was lined with books and windows, while the inner, facing the library's interior, was a shoulder-high railing. At the very top was an oculus--a skylight held closed with a large copper lock, made of foot-thick glass decorated all over with protective runes. Maps were kept in a massive chest decorated with the crest of the Blackthorn family--a ring of thorns--with their family motto beneath it: Lex malla, lex nulla. A bad law is no law. Emma suspected that the Blackthorns hadn't exactly always gotten along with the Council. Drusilla was rummaging around in the map chest. Livvy and Ty were at the table with more maps, and Tavvy was playing under it with a set of plastic soldiers. "Can you tell if Julian's all right?" Livvy asked, propping her chin on her hand to look at Emma anxiously. "You know, how he's feeling . . ." Emma shook her head. "Parabatai stuff isn't really like that. I mean, I can feel if he's hurt, physically, but not his emotions so much." Livvy sighed. "It would be so great to have a parabatai." "I don't really see why," Ty said. "Someone who always has your back," said Livvy. "Someone who will always protect you." "I would do that for you anyway," Ty said, pulling a map toward himself. This was an argument they'd had before; Emma had heard some variation of it half a dozen times. "Not everyone's cut out to have one," she said. She wished for a moment that she had the words to explain it properly: how loving someone more than you loved yourself gave you strength and courage; how seeing yourself in your parabatafs eyes meant seeing the best version of yourself; how, at its best, fighting alongside your parabatai was like playing instruments in harmony with one another, each piece of the music improving the other. "Having someone who's sworn to shield you from danger," said Livvy, her eyes shining. "Someone who would put their hands in a fire for you." Briefly Emma remembered that Jem had once told her that his parabatai, Will, had thrust his hands into a fire to retrieve a packet of medicine that would save Jem's life. Maybe she shouldn't have repeated the story to Livvy. "In the movies Watson throws himself in front of Sherlock when there's gunfire," Ty said, looking thoughtful. "That's like parabatai." Livvy looked mildly outfoxed, and Emma felt for her. If Livvy said it wasn't like parabatai, Ty would argue. If she agreed it was, he would point out you didn't need to be parabatai to jump in front of someone when there was danger. He wasn't wrong, but she sympathized with Livvy's desire to be parabatai with Ty. To make sure her brother was always by her side. "Got it!" Drusilla announced suddenly. She stood up from rummaging around in the map chest with a long piece of parchment in her hands. Livvy, abandoning the parabatai discussion, hurried over to help her carry it to the table. In a clear bowl on the table's center was a heap of sea glass the Blackthorns had collected over the years--lumps of milky blue, green, copper, and red. Emma and Ty used the blue glass to weigh down the edges of the ley line map. Tavvy, now sitting on the edge of the table, had begun sorting the rest of the sea glass into piles by color. Emma let him; she didn't know how else to keep him distracted just now. "Ley lines," Emma said, running her index finger over the long black lines on the map. It was a map of Los Angeles that probably dated back to the forties. Landmarks were visible under the ley lines: the Crossroads of the World in Hollywood, the Bullocks building on Wilshire, the Angels Flight railroad in Bunker Hill, the Santa Monica Pier, the never-changing curve of the coast and the ocean. "All the bodies were left under the span of a ley line. But what Magnus said is that there are places where all the ley lines converge." "What does that have to do with anything?" Livvy asked, practical as always. "I don't know, but I don't think he would have said it if it didn't matter. I imagine the place of convergence has some pretty powerful magic." As Ty applied himself to the map with renewed vigor, Cristina came into the library and gestured for Emma to come talk to her. Emma slid off the table and followed Cristina to the coffeemaker by the window. It was witchlight powered, which meant there was always coffee, although the coffee wasn't always very good. "Is Julian all right?" Emma asked. "And Mark?" "They were talking when I left." Cristina filled two cups with black coffee and dumped in sugar from a small enamel pot on the windowsill. "Julian calmed him down." "Julian could calm anyone down." Emma picked up the second cup of coffee, enjoying the warmth against her skin, though she didn't really like coffee and didn't tend to drink it. Besides, her stomach was tied in so many knots she didn't think she could force anything down. She walked back toward the table where the Blackthorns were arguing about the ley line map. "Well, I can't help it if it doesn't make sense," Ty was saying peevishly. "That's where it says the convergence is." "Where?" Emma asked, coming up behind him. "Here." Dru pointed at a circle Ty had sketched on the map in pencil. It was over the ocean, farther out from Los Angeles than Catalina Island. "So much for anyone doing magic there." "Guess Magnus was just making conversation," said Livvy. "He probably didn't know--" Emma began, and broke off as the library door opened. it was Julian. He stepped into the room and then moved to the side, diffidently, like a conjuror presenting the result of a trick. Mark moved into the doorway after him. Julian must have gotten Mark's old things out of the storeroom. He was wearing jeans that were slightly short on him--probably a pair of his old ones--and one of Julian's T-shirts, heather gray and washed to a soft fadedness, in contrast, his hair looked very blonde, almost silvery. it hit his shoulders, looking slightly less tangled, as if he'd brushed the twigs out of it at least. "Hello," he said. His siblings looked at him in silent, wide-eyed astonishment. "Mark wanted to see you," Julian said. He reached around to ruffle the hair on the back of his neck, looking bemused, as if he had no idea what to do next. "Thank you," Mark said. "For the gifts of welcome you gave me." The Blackthorns continued to stare. Nobody moved except Tavvy, who slowly laid his sea glass down on the table. "The box," Mark clarified. "In my room." Emma felt the coffee cup she was holding plucked out of her hand. She made an indignant noise, but Cristina was already holding it, crossing the room, past the table, and walking up to Mark, her back straight. She held out the mug. "Do you want some?" she said. Looking relieved, he took it. He lifted it to his mouth and swallowed, his whole family watching him in amazed fascination as if he were doing something no one had ever done before. He grimaced. Moving away from Cristina, he coughed and spit. "What is that?" "Coffee." Cristina looked startled. "it tastes of the most bitter poison," Mark said indignantly. Livvy suddenly giggled. The sound cut through the stillness of the rest of the room, the frozen tableau of the others. "You used to love coffee," she said. "I remember that about you!" "I can't imagine why I would have. I've never tasted something so disgusting." Mark made a face. Ty's eyes flicked between Julian and Livvy; he looked eager and excited, his long fingers tapping at the table in front of him. "He isn't used to coffee anymore," he said to Cristina. "They don't have it in Faerie." "Here." Livvy stood up, scooping an apple from the table. "Have this instead." She went forward and held out the apple to her brother. Emma thought she looked like a latter-day Snow White, with her long dark hair and the apple in her pale hand. "You don't mind apples, do you?" "My thanks, gracious sister." Mark bowed and took the apple, while Livvy looked at him with her mouth partly open. "You never call me 'gracious sister,"' she said, turning to Julian with an accusing look. He grinned. "I know you too well, runt." Mark reached up and drew the chain from around his throat. Dangling from the end of it was what looked like the head of an arrow. It was clear, as if made of glass, and Emma recalled having seen something like it in pictures Diana had showed them. Mark began to use the edge of it to peel his apple, matter-of-factly. Tavvy, who had crawled under the table again and was looking out, made an interested noise. Mark glanced at him and winked. Tavvy ducked back under the table, but Emma could see that he was smiling. She couldn't stop looking at Jules. She thought of the way he'd cleaned out Mark's room, hurling his brother's things savagely into a pile as if he could shatter the memories of him. It had lasted only a day, but there had been shadows in his eyes since. She wondered, if Mark stayed, would the shadows disappear? "Did you like the presents?" Dru demanded, swiveling around on the table, her round face anxious. "I put bread and butter in for you in case you were hungry." "I did not know what all of them were," Mark said candidly. "The clothes were very useful. The black metal object--" "That was my microscope," Ty said, looking at Julian for approval. "I thought you might like it." Julian leaned against the table. He didn't ask Ty why Mark would want a microscope, just smiled his sideways, gentle smile. "That was nice of you, Ty." "Tiberius wants to be a detective," Livvy explained to Mark. "Like Sherlock Holmes." Mark looked puzzled. "Is that someone we know? Like a warlock?" "He's a book character," Dru said, laughing. "I've got all the Sherlock Holmes books," said Ty. "I know all the stories. There are fifty-six short stories and four novels. I can tell them to you. And I'll show you how to use the microscope." "I think I buttered it," Mark admitted, looking shamefaced. "I did not remember it was a scientific tool." Emma looked worriedly at Ty--he was meticulous about his things and could be deeply upset by anyone touching them or moving them. But he didn't look angry. Something about Mark's candidness seemed to delight him, the way he sometimes was delighted by an unusual kind of demonic ichor or the life cycle of bees. Mark had cut his apple into careful pieces and was eating them slowly, in the manner of someone who was used to making what food they had last. He was quite thin, thinner than a Shadowhunter his age would usually be-- Shadowhunters were encouraged to eat and train, eat and train, build their muscle and stamina. Most Shadowhunters, due to the constant brutal physical training, ranged from wiry to muscular, though Drusilla was round bodied, something that bothered her more the older she got. Emma always felt pained to see the blush that colored Dru's cheeks when the gear designated for girls in her age group didn't fit. "I heard you speak of convergences," Mark said, moving toward the others --carefully, as if unsure of his welcome. His eyes lifted, and to Emma's surprise, he looked at Cristina. "The convergence of ley lines is a place where dark magic can be done undetected. The Fair Folk know much of ley lines, and use them often." He had slung his arrowhead back around his neck; it glimmered as he bent his head to look at the map on the table. "This is a map of ley lines in Los Angeles," said Cristina. "All of the bodies have been found along them." "Wrong," Mark said, leaning forward. "No, she's right," Ty said with a frown. "It is a map of ley lines, and the bodies have been dumped along them." "But the map is incorrect," Mark said. "The lines are not accurate, nor are the points of convergence." His long-fingered right hand brushed over the pencil circle Ty had made. "This is not right at all. Who made this map?" Julian moved closer and for a moment he and his brother were shoulder to shoulder, their pale hair and dark hair a startling contrast. "It's the Institute's map, I assume." "We took it from the trunk," Emma said, leaning over it from the opposite side of the table. "With all the other maps." "Well, it has been tampered with," said Mark. "We will need a correct one." "Maybe Diana could get us one," Julian said, reaching for a pad of paper and a pencil. "Or we could ask Malcolm." "Or check out what's at the Shadow Market," said Emma, and grinned unrepentantly at Julian's look. "Just a suggestion." Mark glanced at his brother, and then the others, clearly worried. "Was that helpful?" he said. "Was it a thing I should not have said?" "Are you sure?" said Ty, looking from the map to his brother, and something in his face was open as a door. "That the map is incorrect?" Mark nodded. "Then it was helpful," said Ty. "We could have wasted days on a map that was wrong. Maybe longer." Mark exhaled in relief. Julian put his hand on Mark's back. Livvy and Dru beamed. Tavvy was looking out from under the table, clearly curious. Emma glanced at Cristina. The Blackthorns seemed to be wound together by a sort of invisible force; in that moment they were completely a family, and Emma could not even mind that she and Cristina were on the outside. "I could attempt to correct it," said Mark. "But I do not know if I have the skill. Helen--Helen could do it." He glanced at Julian. "She is married, and away--but I assume she will return for this? And to see me?" It was like watching glass shatter in slow motion. None of the Blackthorns moved, not even Tavvy, but blankness spread over their features as they realized exactly how much it was that Mark did not know. Mark paled and slowly set the core of his apple down on the table. "What is it?" "Mark," Julian said, looking toward the door, "come and talk to me in your room, not here--" "No," Mark interrupted, his voice rising with fear. "You will tell me now. Where is my full-blood sister, the daughter of Lady Nerissa? Where is Helen?" There was an achingly awkward silence. Mark was looking at Julian; they were no longer standing beside each other. Mark had moved away, so quietly and quickly Emma had not seen it happen. "You said she was alive," he said, and in his voice there was fear and accusation. "She is," Emma hastened to say. "She's fine." Mark made an impatient noise. "Then I would know where my sister is. Julian?" But it wasn't Julian who answered. "She was sent away when the Cold Peace was decided," Ty said, to Emma's surprise. He sounded matter-of-fact. "She was exiled." "There was a vote," said Livvy. "Some of the Clave wanted to kill her, because of her faerie blood, but Magnus Bane defended the rights of Downworlders. Helen was sent to Wrangel Island to study the wards." Mark leaned against the table, his palm flat against it, as if he were trying to catch his breath after being punched. "Wrangel Island," he whispered. "It is a cold place, ice and snow. I have ridden over those lands with the Hunt. I never knew my sister was down there, in among the frozen wastes." "They would never have let you see her, even if you had known," Julian said. "But you let her be sent away." Mark's two-colored eyes were flashing. "You let them exile her." "We were children. I was twelve years old." Julian didn't raise his voice; his blue eyes were flat and cold. "We had no choice. We talk to Helen every week, we petition the Clave every year for her return." "Speech and petitions," Mark spat. "Might as well do nothing. I knew-- I knew they had chosen not to come for me. I knew they had abandoned me to the Wild Hunt." He swallowed painfully. "I thought it was because they feared Gwyn and the vengeance of the Hunt. Not because they hated and despised me." "It wasn't hate," said Julian. "It was fear." "They said that we couldn't look for you," said Ty. He had taken one of his toys out of his pocket: a length of cord that he often ran through and under his fingers, bending and shaping it into figure eights. "That it was forbidden. It's forbidden to visit Helen, too." Mark looked toward Julian, and his eyes were dark with anger, black and bronze. "Did you ever even try?" "I won't fight with you, Mark," Julian said. The side of his mouth was twitching; it was something that happened only when he was deeply upset, and something, Emma guessed, that only she would notice. "You won't fight for me either," Mark said. "That much is clear." He glanced around the room. "I have come back to a world where I am not wanted, it seems," he said, and slammed his way out of the library. There was an awful silence. "I will go after him," Cristina said, and darted from the room. In the soundlessness left by her departure, the Blackthorns looked at Jules, and Emma fought the urge to run to put herself between him and his siblings' pleading eyes--they looked at him as if he could fix it, fix everything, as he always had. But Julian was standing very still, his eyes half-closed, his hands twisted into fists. She remembered the way he had looked in the car, the desperation in his expression. There were few things in life that could undo Julian's calm, but Mark was, and had always been, one of them. "It's going to be all right," Emma said, reaching out to pat Dru's soft arm. "Of course he's angry--he has every right to be angry--but he's not angry at any of you." Emma stared over Drusilla's head at Julian, trying to catch his gaze, to steady him. "It's going to be fine." The door opened again, and Cristina came back into the room. Julian turned his gaze toward her sharply. Cristina's dark, glossy braids were coiled around her head; they shone as she shook her head. "He is all right," she said, "but he has closed himself in his room, and I think it is best if we leave him alone. I can wait in the corridor, if you like." Julian shook his head. "Thanks," he said. "But no one needs to keep a watch on him. He's free to come and go." "But what if he hurts himself?" It was Tavvy. His voice was small and thin. Julian bent down and lifted his brother up, arms around Tavvy, hugging him tightly, once, before setting him down again. Tavvy kept his hand fixed on Jules's shirt. "He won't," Julian said. "I want to go up to the studio," Tavvy said. "I don't want to be here." Julian hesitated, then nodded. The studio where he painted was somewhere that he often brought Tavvy when his little brother was frightened: Tavvy found the paints, the papers, even the brushes soothing. "I'll bring you up," he said. "There's leftover pizza in the kitchen if anyone wants it, and sandwiches, and--" "It's okay, Jules," Livvy said. She had seated herself on the table, by her twin; she was above Ty as he looked down at the ley line map, his mouth set. "We can handle dinner. We'll be fine." "I'll bring you up something to eat," Emma said. "And for Tavvy, too." Thank you, Julian mouthed to her before he turned toward the door. Before he reached it, Ty, who had been quiet since Mark had left, spoke. "You won't punish him," he said, his cord wrapped tightly around the fingers of his left hand, "will you?" Julian turned around, clearly surprised. "Punish Mark? For what?" "For all the things he said." Ty was flushed, unwinding the cord slowly as it slid through his fingers. Over years of watching his brother, and trying to learn, Julian had come to understand that where sounds and light were concerned, Ty was far more sensitive to them than most people. But where touch was concerned, it fascinated him. It was the way Julian had learned to create Ty's distractions and hand tools, by watching him spend hours investigating the texture of silk or sandpaper, the corrugations of shells and the roughness of rocks. "They were true-- they were the truth. He told us the truth and he helped with the investigation. He shouldn't be punished for that." "Of course not," said Julian. "None of us would punish him." "It's not his fault if he doesn't understand everything," Ty said. "Or if things are too much for him. It's not his fault." "Ty-Ty," said Livvy. It had been Emma's nickname for Tiberius when he was a baby. Since then, the whole family had adopted it. She reached to rub his shoulder. "It'll be all right." "I don't want Mark to leave again," Ty said. "Do you understand, Julian?" Emma watched as the weight of that, the responsibility of it, settled over Julian. "I understand, Ty," he said. <|title|>Chapter 8: Out of The Cloud by Night <|startofchapter|>Emma shouldered open the door to Julian's studio, trying hard not to spill any liquid out of the two overflowing mugs of soup she was carrying. There were two rooms in Julian's studio: the one Julian let people see, and the one he didn't. His mother, Eleanor, had used the larger room as a studio and the smaller one as a darkroom to develop photographs. Ty had often voiced the question of whether the developing chemicals and setup were still intact, and whether he could use them. But the second studio room was the only issue on which Julian didn't bend to the will of his younger siblings or offer to give up what was his for them. The black-painted door stayed closed and locked, and even Emma wasn't allowed inside. Nor did she ask. Julian had so little privacy, she didn't want to begrudge him the bit he could claim. The main studio was beautiful. Two of the walls were glass, one facing the ocean and one the desert. The other two walls were painted creamy taupe, and Julian's mother's canvases--abstracts in bright colors--still adorned them. Jules was standing by the central island, a massive block of granite whose surface was covered with sheafs of paper, boxes of watercolors, and piled tubes of paint with lyrical names: alazarin red, cardinal purple, cadmium orange, ultramarine blue. He raised one hand and put a finger to his lips, glancing to the side. Seated at a small easel was Tavvy, armed with a box of open nontoxic paints. He was smearing them over a long sheet of butcher paper, seeming pleased with his multicolored creation. There was orange paint in his brown curls. "I just got him calmed down," Julian said as Emma approached and set the mugs on the island. "What's going on? Has anyone talked to Mark?" "His door's still locked," Emma said. "The others are in the library." She pushed one of the mugs toward him. "Eat," she said. "Cristina made it. Tortilla soup. Although she says we have the wrong chiles." Julian picked up a mug and knelt down to place it next to Tavvy. His little brother looked up and blinked at Emma as if he'd just noticed she was there. "Did Jules show you the pictures?" he demanded. Blue had joined the orange and yellow in his hair. He looked like a sunset. "Which pictures?" Emma asked as Julian straightened up. "The ones of us. The card ones." She raised an eyebrow at Jules. "The card what?" He flushed. "Portraits," he said. "I did them in the Rider-Waite style, like the tarot." "The mundane tarot?" Emma said as Jules reached for a portfolio book. Shadowhunters tended to eschew the objects of mundane superstition: palmistry, astrology, crystal balls, tarot cards. They weren't forbidden to own or touch, but they were associated with unsavory dwellers on the fringes of magic, like Johnny Rook. "I made some changes to it," Julian said, opening the book to show a flutter of papers, each sporting a colorful, distinctive illustration. There was Livvy with her saber, hair flying, but instead of her name beneath, it read the protector. As always, Julian's paintings seemed to reach out, a direct line to her heart, making her feel as if she understood what Julian had felt while he was painting. Looking at the picture of Livvy, Emma felt a flash of admiration, love, a fear of loss, even--Julian would never speak of it, but she suspected he was watching Livvy and Ty become adults with more than a little terror. Then there was Tiberius, a death's-head moth fluttering on his hand, his pretty face turned down and away from the viewer. The painting gave Emma a sense of fierce love, intelligence, and vulnerability mixed together. Beneath him it said the genius. Then there was the dreamer --Dru with her head in a book--and the INNOCENT, Tavvy in his pajamas, sleepy head cradled in his hand. The colors were warm, affectionate, caressing. And then there was Mark. Arms crossed over his chest, hair as blond as straw, he wore a shirt that bore the design of spread wings. Each wing sported an eye: one gold, one blue. A rope circled his ankle, trailing out of the frame. THE PRISONER, it Said. Jules's shoulder brushed against Emma's as she leaned in to study the image. Like all Julian's drawings, it seemed to whisper to her in a silent language: loss, it said, and sorrow, and years that you could not recapture. "Is this what you were working on in England?" she asked. "Yes. I was hoping to do the whole set." He reached back and scrubbed at his tangled brown curls. "I might have to change the title of Mark's card," said Julian. "Now that he's free." "If he stays free." Emma brushed the drawing of Mark aside and saw that the next portrait was of Helen, standing among ice floes, her pale hair covered by a knitted cap. the separated, it said. There was another card, THE DEVOTED, for her wife. Aline, whose dark hair made a cloud around her. She wore the Blackthorn ring on her hand. And the last was of Arthur, sitting at his desk. A red ribbon ran along the floor beneath him, the color of blood. There was no title. Julian reached out and shuffled them back into the notebook. "They're not finished yet." "Am I going to get a card?" Emma teased. "Or is it just Blackthorns and Blackthorns-by-marriage?" "Why don't you draw Emma?" Tavvy asked, looking at his brother. "You never draw Emma." Emma saw Julian tense. It was true. Julian rarely drew people, but even when he did, he'd stopped sketching Emma years ago. The last time she remembered him drawing her was the family portrait at Aline and Helen's wedding. "Are you all right?" she said, her voice low enough that she hoped Tavvy couldn't hear. He exhaled, hard, and opened his eyes, his muscles unclenching. His eyes met hers and the curl of anger that had begun unfurling in her stomach vanished. His gaze was open, vulnerable. "I'm sorry," he said. "It's just, I always thought when he got back--when Mark got back--he'd help. That he'd take over, take care of everything. I never thought he'd be something else I had to deal with." Emma was carried back in that moment to all the weeks, the months, after Mark had first been taken and Helen sent away, when Julian had woken up screaming for the older brother and sister who weren't there, who would never be there again. She remembered the panic that sent him stumbling to the bathroom to throw up, the nights she'd held him on the cold tiled floor while he shook as if he had a fever. I can't, he'd said. I can't do this alone. I can't bring them up. I can't raise four children. Emma felt the anger uncurl in her stomach again, but this time it was directed at Mark. "Jules?" Tavvy asked, sounding nervous, and Julian passed a hand over his face. It was a nervous habit, as if he were wiping an easel free of paint; when he dropped his hand, the fear and emotion had gone from his eyes. "I'm here," he said, and went over to pick up Tavvy. Tavvy put his head down on Jules's shoulder, looking sleepy, and getting paint all over Jules's T-shirt. But Jules didn't seem to care. He put his chin down in his younger brother's curls and smiled at Emma. "Forget it," he said. "I'm going to take this one off to bed. You should probably get some sleep too." But Emma's veins were buzzing with a sharp elixir of anger and protectiveness. No one hurt Julian. No one. Not even his much-missed, much-loved brother. "I will," she said. "I've got something to do first." Julian looked alarmed. "Emma, don't try to--" But she was already gone. Emma stood in front of Mark's door, her hands on her hips. "Mark!" She rapped with her knuckles for the fifth time. "Mark Blackthorn, I know you're in there. Open the door." Silence. Emma's curiosity and anger warred with her respect for Mark's privacy, and won. Opening runes didn't work on doors inside their Institute, so she drew a thin knife from her belt and slid it into the gap between the door and the doorjamb. The latch popped, and the door swung wide. Emma stuck her head in. The lights were on, curtains drawn against the darkness outside. The bedcovers were rumpled, the bed empty. In fact, the whole room was empty. Mark wasn't there. Emma pulled the door shut and turned around with an exasperated sigh-- and almost screamed. Dru was standing behind her with wide, dark eyes. She was clutching a book to her chest. "Dru! You know, usually when people sneak up on me from behind, I stab them." Emma exhaled shakily. Dru looked glum. "You're looking for Mark." Emma saw no point in denying it. "True." "He's not in there," Dru said. "Also true. This is a big night for stating the obvious, huh?" Emma smiled at Dru, feeling a pang. The twins were so close, and Tavvy so young and dependent on Jules, it was hard, she thought, for Dru to find the place she fit. "He'll be okay, you know." "He's on the roof," Dru said. Emma raised an eyebrow. "What makes you say that?" "He always used to go up there when he was upset," said Dru. She glanced toward the window at the far end of the hall. "And up there, he'd be under the sky. He could see the Hunt if they rode by." Emma felt chilled. "They won't," she said. "They won't ride by. They won't take him away again." "Even if he wants to go?" "Dm--" "Go up there and bring him back down," Drusilla said. "Please, Emma." Emma wondered if she looked bewildered; she felt bewildered. "Why me?" "Because you're a pretty girl," said Dru, a little wistfully, looking down at her own round body. "And boys do what pretty girls want. Great-Aunt Marjorie said so. She said if I wasn't such a butterball. I'd be a pretty girl and boys would do what I wanted." Emma was appalled. "That old bi--that old bat, sorry, said what?" Dru hugged the book more tightly to her. "You know, it doesn't sound so bad, does it? Butterball? Like you could be something cute, like a squirrel, or a chipmunk." "You're much cuter than a chipmunk," Emma said. "Weird teeth, and I have it on good authority that they speak in high, squeaky voices." She ruffled Dru's soft hair. "You're gorgeous," she said. "You always will be gorgeous. Now, I'll go see what I can do about your brother." The hinges on the trapdoor that led to the roof hadn't been oiled in months; they squeaked loudly as Emma, bracing herself on the top rung of the ladder, shoved upward. The trapdoor gave way and she crawled out onto the roof. She straightened up, shivering. The wind off the ocean was cold, and she had only thrown a cardigan on over her tank top and jeans. The shingle of the roof was rough under her bare feet. She'd been up here too many times to count. The roof was flat, easy to walk on, only a slight slant at the edges where the shingles gave way to copper rain gutters. There was even a folding metal chair up here, where Julian sat sometimes when he painted. He'd gone through a whole phase of painting the sunset over the ocean--he'd given it up when he'd kept chasing the changing colors of the sky, convinced each stage of the setting sun was better than the one before, until every canvas ended up black. There was very little cover up here; it took only a moment to spot Mark, sitting at the edge of the roof with his legs dangling over the edge, staring out toward the ocean. Emma made her way over to him, the wind whipping her pale braids across her face. She pushed them away impatiently, wondering if Mark was ignoring her or if he was actually unaware of her approach. She stopped a few feet from him, remembering the way he'd hit out at Julian. "Mark," she said. He turned his head slowly. In the moonlight he was black and white; it was impossible to tell that his eyes were different colors. "Emma Carstairs." Her full name. That wasn't very auspicious. She crossed her arms over her chest. "I came up here to bring you back down," she said. "You're freaking out your family and you're upsetting Jules." "Jules," he said carefully. "Julian. Your brother." "I want to talk to my sister," he said. "I want to talk to Helen." "Fine," said Emma. "You can talk to her whenever. You can borrow an extra cell phone and call her, or we can have her call you, or we can freaking Skype, if that's what you want. We would have told you that before if you hadn't started yelling." "Skype?" Mark looked as if she'd sprouted several heads. "It's a computer thing. Ty knows about it. You'll be able to look at her when you talk to her." "Like the scrying glass of the fey?" "Sort of like that." Emma edged a little closer to him, as if she were sidling up to a wild animal that might spook at her approach. "Come back downstairs?" "I prefer it here. I was choking inside on all that dead air, crushed under the weight of all that building--root and timbers and glass and stone. How do you live like that?" "You did just fine for sixteen years." "I barely remember," he said. "It seems like a dream." He glanced back toward the ocean. "So much water," he said. "I can see it and through it. I can see the demons down under the sea. I look at it and it doesn't seem real." That was something Emma could understand. The sea was what had taken her parents' bodies and then returned them, broken and empty. She knew from the reports that they'd been dead when they'd been cast into the water, but it didn't help. She remembered the lines of a poem Arthur had recited once, about the ocean: water washes, and tall ships founder, and deep death waits. That was what the sea beyond the waves was, to her. Deep death waiting. "Surely there's water in Faerie?" she said. "Not any sea. And never enough water. The Wild Hunt would often ride for days without water. Only if we were fainting would Gwyn let us stop to drink. And there are fountains in the Wild of Faerie, but they run with blood." " 'For all the blood that's shed on earth, runs through the springs of that country,' " said Emma. "I didn't realize that was literal." "I didn't realize you knew the old rhymes," said Mark, glancing over with the first real interest he'd shown in her since his return. "The whole family has always tried to learn everything they can about Faerie," said Emma, sitting down beside him. "Ever since we came back from the Dark War, Diana has taught us, and even the little ones wanted to know about the Fair Folk. Because of you." "That must be a rather unpopular part of the Shadowhunter curriculum," said Mark, "considering recent history." "It isn't your fault, what the Clave thinks of faeries," said Emma. "You're a Shadowhunter, and you were never part of the betrayal." "I am a Shadowhunter," Mark agreed. "But I am part Fair Folk, too, like my sister. My mother was the Lady Nerissa. She died after I was born, and with no one to raise us, Helen and I were given back to our father. My mother was gentry, though, one of the highest rank of the fey." "Did they treat you better in the Hunt because of her?" Mark shook his head once. "I believe they think of my father as responsible for her death. For breaking her heart by leaving her. That did not dispose them well toward me." He tucked a lock of pale hair behind his ear. "Nothing the Fair Folk did to my body or mind was as cruel as the moment I was told that the Clave would not be coming to find me. That they would send no rescue parties. Jace told me, when he saw me in Faerie, 'show them what a Shadowhunter is made of.' But what are Shadowhunters made of, if they desert their own?" "The Council isn't all Shadowhunters in the world," said Emma. "A lot of Nephilim thought what was done to you was wrong. And Julian never stopped trying to get the Clave to change their minds." She considered reaching to pat his arm, then thought better of it. There was still something a little feral about him; it would have been like reaching to pat a leopard. "You'll see, now that you're home." "Am I home?" asked Mark. He shook his head, like a dog shaking off water. "Perhaps I was unfair to my brother," he said. "Perhaps I should not have lashed out. I feel like--like I am in a dream. It seems weeks ago they came to me at the Hunt and told me I was to go back to the world." "Did they tell you that you'd be coming home?" "No," he said. "They told me I had no choice but to leave the Hunt. That the King of the Unseelie Court had commanded it. They pulled me down from my horse and bound my hands. We rode for days. They gave me something to drink, something that made me hallucinate and imagine things that were not there." He looked down at his hands. "It was so I would not be able to find my way back, but I wish they had not done it," he said. "I wish I could have arrived here as I have been for years, a capable member of the Hunt. I would have liked my brothers and sisters to see me standing tall and proud, not fearful and crawling." "You do seem very different now," Emma said. It was true. He seemed like someone who had woken up after a hundred years of sleep, shaking the dust of a century's dreams from his feet. He had been terrified; now his hands were steady, his expression somber. Suddenly he smiled wryly. "When they ordered me to reveal myself in the Sanctuary, I thought it was another dream." "A good dream?" Emma said. He hesitated, then shook his head. "In the early days of the Hunt, when I disobeyed, I was made to see dreams, horrors, visions of my family dying. I thought that was what I was meant to be seeing again. I was terrified--not for myself, but for Julian." "But now you know it's not a dream. Seeing your family, your home--" "Emma. Stop." He squeezed his eyes shut as if in pain. "I can say this to you because you are not a Blackthorn. You do not have Blackthorn blood running through your veins. I have been in the land of Faerie for years and it is a place where mortal blood is turned to fire. It is a place of beauty and terror beyond what can be imagined here. I have ridden with the Wild Hunt. I have carved a clear path of freedom among the stars and outrun the wind. And now I am asked to walk upon the earth again." "You belong where you're loved," Emma said. It was something her father had said, something she had always believed. She belonged here because Jules loved her and the children loved her. "Were you loved in Faerie?" A shadow seemed to come down over Mark's eyes, like curtains closing in a dark room. "I meant to tell you. I am sorry about your parents." Emma waited for the familiar burn of sickening rage that the mention of her parents by anyone but Jules always brought on, but it didn't come. There was something in the way he said it--something about the strange mixture of formal, faerie speech and sincere regret--that was oddly calming. "And I'm sorry about your father," she told him. "I saw him Turned," Mark said. "Though I did not see him die in the Dark War. I hope he did not suffer." Emma felt a ripple of shock pass up her spine. Did he not know how his father had died? Had no one told him? "He--" she began. "It was in the middle of battle. It was very quick." "You saw it?" Emma scrambled to her feet. "It's late," she said. "We should get to sleep." He looked up at her with his eerie eyes. "You do not want to sleep," he said, and he looked wild to her suddenly, wild as the stars or the desert, wild as all natural, untamed things. "You have always been one for adventure, Emma, and I do not think that has died in you, has it? Tied though you might be to my unadventurous little brother?" "Julian isn't unadventurous," Emma said angrily. "He's responsible." "You would have me believe there is a difference?" Emma looked up at the moon, and then back at Mark. "What are you suggesting?" "It occurred to me, as I looked out at the ocean," he said, "I may be able to find the place where the ley lines converge. I have seen such places before, with the Hunt. They give off a certain energy that fey folk can feel." " What? But how--" "I'll show you. Come with me to look for the place. Why wait? The investigation is urgent, isn't it? We must find the killer?" Excitement rose up in Emma, and sharp desire; she tried to keep it off her face, how badly she wanted, needed to know, to take the next step, to throw herself into searching, fighting, finding. "Jules," she said, rising to her feet. "We have to get Jules and bring him." Mark looked grim. "I do not wish to see him." Emma stood her ground. "Then we don't go," she said. "He's my parabatai --where I go, he goes." Something flashed in Mark's eyes. "If you won't go without him, we will not go at all," he said. "You cannot force me to give up the information." "Force you? Mark--" Emma broke off, exasperated. "Fine. Fine. We can go. Just us." "Just us," he repeated. He stood up. His movements were impossibly light and fast. "But first you must prove yourself." He stepped off the roof. Emma skidded to the edge of the shingle and leaned out. There was Mark, clinging to the wall of the Institute, an arm's length below her. He looked up with a fierce grin. A grin that spoke of empty air and cold wind, the torn surface of the ocean, the ragged edge of clouds. A grin that beckoned to the wild, unbound side of Emma, the side that dreamed of fire and battle and blood and vengeance. "Climb down with me," he said, and now there was an edge of mockery in his voice. "You're crazy," she hissed, but he had already begun to move down the wall, using handholds and footholds that Emma couldn't even see. The ground swung under her. Real heights: If she fell from the roof of the Institute, she might well die; there was no assurance an iratze could save her. She got down on her knees and turned her back to the ocean. She slid down, her nails scraping shingle, and then she was clinging to the gutter with her hands, her legs dangling out into the air. She scrabbled at the wall with her bare feet. Thank the Angel she wasn't wearing boots. Her feet were calloused from walking and fighting; they slipped along the wall until they found a crack in the surface. She jammed her toes into it, relieving the weight on her arms. Don't look down. For as long as Emma could remember, the voice in her head that calmed her panic had been Jules's. She heard it now, bringing her hands down, her fingers jamming into the space between two stones. She lowered herself down, an inch at first, then farther as she found another foothold. She heard Jules: You're climbing over the rocks at Leo Carrillo. It's only a few feet down to soft sand. Everything's safe. The wind blew her hair across her face. She turned her head to shake it out of her eyes and realized she was passing a window. Pale light burned behind the curtains. Cristina's room, maybe? Have you always been this careless? More since the Dark War... She was halfway down now, she guessed from looking up, the roof receding. She had started to speed up, her fingertips and toes swiftly discovering new handholds and footholds. The plaster in between the stones helped, kept her sweaty hands from slipping as she gripped and released. gripped and released, pressing her body hard against the wall until suddenly she was reaching down with her foot and struck solid ground. She let go and fell, landing with a soft puff of sand. They were on the east side of the house, facing the garden, the small parking area, and the desert beyond. Mark was already there, of course, bleached by moonlight and looking like part of the desert, a curious carving of pale new stone. Emma was breathing hard as she stepped away from the wall, but it was with exhilaration. Her heart was hammering, her blood drumming; she could taste salt on the wind, in her mouth. Mark rocked backward, hands in his pockets. "Come with me," he whispered, and turned away from the building, toward the sand and scrub of the desert. "Wait," Emma said. Mark stopped and looked over his shoulder at her. "Weapons," she said. "And shoes." She went to the car. A quick Open rune unlocked the trunk, revealing piles of weapons and gear. She hunted until she found a belt and a spare pair of boots. She buckled the belt on quickly, slammed some blades and daggers into it, grabbed up some spares, and kicked her feet into the boots. Luckily, in the rush back from Malcolm's she'd left Cortana strapped to the inside of the trunk. She freed the blade and slung it over her back before hurrying over to Mark, who silently accepted her offer of a seraph blade and a set of knives before gesturing for her to follow him. Behind the low wall bordering the parking lot was the rock garden, usually peaceful, planted with cacti and dotted here and there with plaster statues of classical heroes, placed there by Arthur. He'd had them shipped from England when he'd first moved to the Institute and they stuck out among the cacti, anomalous. There was something else there now, a dark, hulking shadow, covered by a cloth. Mark moved toward it, again with that odd smile; Emma stepped aside to let him go ahead of her, and he plucked the long black cloth away. Beneath it was a motorcycle. Emma gave a little gasp. It wasn't any make of motorcycle that she knew: It was silvery-white, as if it had been carved out of bone. It glimmered under the moonlight, and Emma almost thought for a moment she could see through it, the way she sometimes saw through glamours, to a shape beneath, with a tossing mane and wide eyes.... "When you take a steed from Faerie, whose substance is magic, its nature can change to suit the mundane world," said Mark, smiling at her stunned expression. "You mean this was once a horse? This is a pony-cycle?" Emma demanded, forgetting to whisper. His smile broadened. "There are many sorts of steeds who ride with the Wild Hunt." Emma was already beside the motorcycle, running her hands over it. The metal felt smooth like glass, cool under her fingers, milk white and glowing. She had wanted to ride a motorcycle all her life. Jace and Clary had ridden a flying motorcycle. There were paintings of it. "Does it fly?" Mark nodded, and she was lost. "I want to drive it," she said. "I want to drive it myself." He swept an elaborate bow. It was a graceful, alien gesture, the kind that might have existed in the court of a king, hundreds of years ago. "Then you are welcome to do so." "Julian would kill me," Emma said reflexively, still stroking the machine. Beautiful as it was, she felt a thrill of trepidation at the thought of riding it-- it didn't have an exhaust pipe, a speedometer, any of the normal gear she associated with a cycle. "You don't strike me as that easy to kill," Mark said, and now he wasn't smiling, and the way he looked at her was direct and challenging. Without another word Emma swung her leg over the bike. She reached to grip the handlebars, and they seemed to bend inward to fit her hands. She looked at Mark. "Get on behind me," she said, "if you want to ride." She felt the cycle rock under her as he climbed on behind her; his hands clasped her sides lightly. Emma exhaled, her shoulders tensing. "It's alive," Mark whispered. "It will respond to you, if you will it." Her hands tightened on the handlebars. Fly. The cycle shot up into the air and Emma screamed, half in shock and half in delight. Mark's hands tightened on her waist as they hurtled up, the ground receding below them. The wind poured around them. Untrammeled by gravity, the cycle shot forward as Emma urged it on, leaning forward to communicate with her body what she wanted it to do. They whipped past the Institute, the road that led down toward the highway opening up under them. They raced along above it, desert wind giving way to salt on Emma's tongue as they reached the Pacific Coast Highway, cars darting past below them in blaring lines of pale gold headlights. She cried out in delight, willing the cycle onward: Faster, go faster. The beach flew by beneath them, pale gold sand turned white by starlight, and then they were out over the ocean. The moon lit a silvery path for them; Emma could hear Mark yelling something in her ear, but for the moment there was nothing but the ocean and the cycle under her, the wind whipping her hair back and making her eyes water. And then she looked down. On either side of the moonlit path was the water, navy blue in the darkness. Land was a distant line of brilliant lights, the etched shadow of mountains against the sky. And below was ocean, miles of ocean, and Emma felt the familiar cold of fear, like a block of ice applied suddenly to the back of her neck and spreading through her veins. Miles of ocean, and oh, the vastness of it, shadows and salt, fierce dark water filled with alien emptiness and the monsters that lived there. Imagine falling into that water and knowing it was below you, even as you treaded water, desperately trying to remain on the surface; the terror of the realization of what was under you -- miles and miles of nothingness and monsters, blackness stretching away everywhere and the sea floor so far below--would tear your mind apart. The cycle jerked under her hands, rebelling. She bit down hard on her lip, summoning blood to the surface, focusing her mind. The cycle slewed around under her hands and shot back toward the beach. Faster, Emma urged it, suddenly desperate to have dry land under them. She thought she could see shadows moving under the skin of the sea. She thought of old stories of sailors whose boats were lifted out of the water on the backs of whales and sea monsters. Of small craft torn apart by sea demons, their crews fed to the sharks-- She caught her breath, the cycle jumping under her, momentarily losing her grip on the handlebars. They plunged downward. Mark cried out as they shot past the crashing waves and toward the beach. Emma's fingers scrabbled and seized on the handlebars again, her grip tight as the front wheel grazed the sand, and then the bike was rising again, skimming over the beach, lifting to pass over the highway below them. She heard Mark laugh. It was a wild sound; she could hear the echo of the Hunt in it, the roar of the horn and the pounding of hooves. She breathed in cool, clear air; her hair whipped behind her; there were no rules. She was free. "You have proved yourself, Emma," he said. "You could ride with Gwyn, if you chose." "The Wild Hunt doesn't allow women," she pointed out, the words torn from her mouth by the wind. "The more fool they," he said. "Women are fiercer by far than men." He pointed at the shore, toward the ridges of the mountains that ran along the coast. "Go that way. I will take you to the convergence." <|title|>Chapter 9: Kingdom by the Sea <|startofchapter|>No wonder Jace Herondale had once jumped at the chance to fly a motorcycle, Emma thought. It was a completely different vantage point on the world. She and Mark followed the line of the highway north, flying over mansions with massive swimming pools that hung out over the ocean, castles tucked up into canyons and bluffs, dipping down low enough once to see a party going on in someone's backyard, complete with glowing multicolored lanterns. Mark guided her from behind with taps on her wrists; the wind had risen too high for her to hear his voice. They passed over a late-night seafood shack, music and light pouring out of the windows. Emma had been there before and remembered sitting on the big wooden picnic tables with Jules, dunking fried oysters in tartar sauce. Dozens of Harley-Davidsons were parked outside the restaurant, though Emma doubted any of them could fly. She grinned to herself, unable to help it, feeling drunk on the height and the cold air. Mark tapped her right wrist. A smooth stretch of sand spilled from the beach, reaching halfway up high bluffs. Emma tilted the cycle so that they were nearly vertical, hurtling up the side of a cliff. They cleared the lip of the bluff with a foot of space and shot forward, the wheels scraping the tips of the California thistle that grew among the long grass. A granite rise loomed in front of them, a dome-like hill atop the bluffs. Emma leaned back, preparing to gun the cycle, but Mark reached around her, his voice in her ear: "Stop! Stopt' The cycle skidded to a halt just as they passed the tangle of weeds that bordered the bluffs. Inside the border of coastal shrubs was a stretch of grass that reached to the low granite hill. The grass looked trampled in places, as if it had been walked on, and in the distance, to the right of the grassy stretch, Emma could see a faint dirt road winding down the bluffs toward the highway. Emma swung herself off the cycle. Mark followed, and they stood for a moment, the sea a gleam in the distance, the hill rising dark in front of them. "You drive too fast," said Mark. Emma snorted and checked the strap of Cortana where it fastened across her chest. "You sound like Julian." "It brought me joy," Mark said, moving to stand beside her. "It was as if I flew with the Hunt again, and tasted the blood of the sky." "Okay, you sound like Julian on drugs," Emma muttered. She glanced around. "Where are we? Is this the ley line convergence?" "There." Mark pointed at a dark opening in the rock of the hill. As they moved toward it, Emma reached back to touch the hilt of Cortana. Something about the place was giving her shivers--maybe it was simply the power of the convergence, but as they neared the cave, and the hair rose on the back of her neck, she doubted it. "The grass is flat," she said, indicating the area around the cave with a sweep of her hand. "Trampled. Someone's been walking here. A lot of someones. But there are no fresh tire tracks on the road." Mark glanced around, head tilted back, like a wolf scenting the air. His feet were still bare, but he seemed to have no problem walking on the rough ground, despite the thistles and sharp rocks visible between the grasses. There was a sharp, bright trill--Emma's phone ringing. Jules, she thought, and snatched it out of her pocket. "Emma?" It was Cristina, her low, sweet voice oddly startling--a sharp reminder of reality after the unreal flight through the sky. "Where are you? Did you find Mark?" "I found him," Emma said, glancing over toward Mark. He appeared to be examining the plants growing around the mouth of the cave. "We're at the convergence." "What? Where is it? Is it dangerous?" "Not yet," Emma said as Mark ducked into the cave. "Mark!" she called. "Mark, don't--Mark!" The phone connection dropped. Swearing, Emma stuck the phone back into her pocket and took out her witchlight. It came on, soft and bright, raying out through her fingers. It illuminated the mouth of the cave. She headed toward it, cursing Mark under her breath. He was just inside the cave, looking down at more of the same plants, clustering around the dry, soft stone. "Atropa belladonna," he said. "It means 'beautiful lady.' It's poisonous." Emma made a face. "Does it grow around here normally?" "Not in this quantity." He reached down to touch it. Emma caught his wrist. "Don't," she said. "You said it was poisonous." "Only if swallowed," he said. "Hasn't Uncle Arthur taught you anything about the death of Augustus?" "Nothing I haven't worked hard to forget." Mark straightened up, and she let go of him. She flexed her fingers. There was wiry strength in his arms. As he moved forward into the cave, which began to narrow into a tunnel, she couldn't help but remember Mark the last time she had seen him, before he had been taken by Sebastian Morgenstern. Smiling, blue eyed, short pale hair curling over the tips of his pointed ears. Broad- shouldered--or at least she, at twelve, had thought so. Certainly he had been bigger than Julian, taller and broader than all of them. Grown up. Now, prowling ahead of her, he seemed a feral child, hair gleaming in the witchlight. He moved like a cloud across the sky, vapor at the mercy of wind that could tear it to shreds. He vanished around a bend of rock, and Emma almost closed her eyes against the image of a vanished Mark. He belonged to the past that contained her parents, and you could drown in the past if you let it have you while you were working. And she was a Shadowhunter. She was always working. "Emma!" Mark called, his voice echoing off the walls. "Come and see this." She hurried after him down the tunnel. It opened out into a circular chamber lined with metal. Emma turned on her heel in a slow circle, staring. She wasn't sure what she had expected, but not something that looked like the inside of an occult ocean liner. The walls were bronze, covered in strange symbols, a scrawled mixture of languages: some demonic, some ancient but human-- she recognized demotic Greek and Latin, a few passages from the Bible. . . . Two massive glass doors like portholes were set into the walls, shut and bolted with rivets. A strange metal ornament had been fixed in the wall between them. Through the glass, Emma could see only surging darkness, as if they were underwater. There was no furniture in the room, but a circle of symbols, done in chalk, was drawn onto the smooth black stone floor. Emma brought out her phone and began to take pictures. The flash going off seemed eerie in the dimness. Mark moved toward the circle. "Don't--" Emma lowered her phone. "Go in there," she sighed. He was already inside the circle, looking around curiously. Emma couldn't see anything in there with him besides bare floor. "Please come out," she said wheedlingly. "If there's some magic spell in there and it kills you, explaining to Jules is going to be so awkward." There was a faint shimmer of light as Mark stepped out of the circle. "'Awkward' seems like an understatement," he said. "That's the point," Emma said. "That's why it's funny." He looked blank. "Never mind." "I read once that explaining a joke is like dissecting a frog," Mark said. "You find out how it works, but the frog dies in the process." "Maybe we should get out of here before we die in the process. I took some pictures with my phone, so--" "I found this," Mark said, and showed her a square leather object. "It was inside the circle along with some clothes and what looked like"--he frowned --"broken teeth." Emma snatched the object out of his hand. It was a wallet--a man's wallet, semi-scorched by fire. "I didn't see anything," she said. "The circle looked empty." "Glamour spell. I felt it when I passed through." She flipped the wallet open, and her heart leaped. Pressed behind plastic was a driver's license with a familiar picture. The man whose body she'd found in the alley. There was money in the wallet and credit cards, but her eyes were fixed on the license and his name--Stanley Albert Wells. The same longish, graying hair and round face she remembered, only this time his features weren't twisted up and stained with blood. The address under the name had been burned to illegibility, but the birth date and other information were clear. "Mark. Mark!" She waved the wallet over her head. "This is a clue. An actual clue. I think I love you." Mark's eyebrows went up. "In Faerie, if you said that, we would have to pledge our troth, and you might put a geas upon me that I would not stray from you or I would die." Emma shoved the wallet in her pocket. "Well, here it's just an expression that means 'I like you very much' or even Thanks for the bloodstained wallet.'" "How specific you humans are." "You're human, Mark Blackthorn." A sound echoed through the room. Mark jerked his gaze from hers and raised his head. Emma almost imagined his pointed ears twitching toward the sound and suppressed a smile. "Outside," he said. "There's something outside." Her incipient smile disappeared. She slipped into the tunnel, sliding her witchlight into her pocket to douse the illumination. Mark fell into step behind her as she drew out her stele with her left hand, scrawling a number of quick runes onto her arms--Sure-Strike, Swift-Footedness, Battle-Rage, Soundless. She turned to Mark as they neared the entrance, her stele out, but he shook his head. No. No runes. She flipped the stele back into her belt. They had reached the mouth of the cave. The air was cooler here, and she could see the sky, dotted with stars, and the grass, silvery in the moonlight. The field in front of the cave looked bare and empty. Emma could see nothing but grass and thistles, pounded flat as if by the tread of boots, reaching all the way to the edge of the bluff. There was a sharp musical sound in the air, like the buzz of insects. She heard Mark's sharp intake of breath behind her. Light flared as he spoke. "Remiel." His seraph blade blazed to life. As if the light had ripped away a glamour, suddenly, she could see them. Whistling and chittering among the long grass. Demons. She whipped Cortana free so quickly it was as if it had leaped into her hand. There were dozens of them, spread between the cave and the bluff. They looked like enormous insects: praying mantises, to be precise. Triangular heads, elongated bodies, massive grasping arms ridged with blades of chitin, sharp as razors. Their eyes were pallid, flat, and milky. They were between her and Mark and the motorcycle. "Mantid demons," Emma whispered. "We can't fight all of them." She looked up at Mark, his face illuminated by Remiel. "We have to get to the cycle." Mark nodded. "Go," he said. Emma sprang forward. It came down like a cage the moment her boots hit the grass: a wave of cold that seemed to slow time. She saw one of the Mantids turn toward her, lashing out with grasping, spiked forelegs. She bent her knees and sprang, rising into the air as she slashed downward, severing the Mantid's head from its body. Green ichor sprayed. She landed on soaked ground as the demon's body folded up and vanished, sucked back to its home dimension. A flicker rose in her peripheral vision. She spun and struck out again, jamming the point of Cortana into another Mantid's thorax. She jerked her sword back, struck again, watched the demon crumble around the blade. Her heart was beating in her ears. This was the sharp point of the blade, the moments when all the training, all the hours and the passion and the rage narrowed down to a single point of focus and determination. Killing demons. That was what mattered. Mark was easily visible, his seraph blade lighting up the grass around him. He slashed out at a Mantid, severing its forelegs. It wobbled, chittering, still alive. Mark's face twisted with disgust. Emma ran toward a heap of rocks, darted up the side, and sailed down, slicing the crippled Mantid in half. It vanished as she landed in front of Mark. "That was mine to dispatch," he said with a cold look. "Trust me," Emma said, "there's plenty." She grabbed him with her free hand and spun him around. Five Mantids were lurching toward them from cracks in the granite hill. "Kill those," she said. "I'll get the cycle." Mark leaped forward with a cry like a hunting horn. He cut at the Mantids' legs and forelegs, crippling them; they fell around him, spraying green-black ichor. It stank like burning gasoline. Emma began to run for the bluff. Demons surged up at her as she went. She slashed at where they were weakest, the connective tissue where the chitin was thin, severing heads from thoraxes, legs from bodies. Her jeans and cardigan were wet with demon blood. She skidded around a dying Mantid, slid toward the edge of the bluff-- And froze. A Mantid was lifting the cycle in its forelegs. She could swear it was grinning at her, its triangular head splitting open to reveal rows of needle teeth, as it clamped razored forelegs around the cycle, crushing it to pieces. Metal screamed and rent, tires popped, and the Mantid chittered in joy as the machine came apart, the pieces hurtling down the side of the bluff, taking with it Emma's hope of an easy escape. She glared at the Mantid. "That," she said, "was a really sweet ride," and catching up a knife from her belt, she threw it. It jammed into the Mantid's body, severing thorax from prothorax. Ichor sprayed from the demon's mouth as it tipped backward, spasming, its body following the cycle down the cliffside. "Jerk," Emma muttered, whirling back toward the field. She hated using throwing knives to kill an enemy, mostly because you were unlikely to get them back. She had three more in her belt, a seraph blade, and Cortana. She knew it wasn't nearly enough to take on the two dozen Mantids still prowling the grass. But it was what she had. It would have to do. She could see Mark, who had climbed the face of the granite hill and was perched on an outcropping, stabbing downward with his blade. She began to run toward him. She dodged a lashing foreleg, arcing Cortana up to sever the limb as she ran. She heard the Mantid shriek in pain. One of the taller Mantids was reaching up toward Mark, jagged forelegs grasping. He brought Remiel down, hard, severing its head--and as it collapsed, a second Mantid appeared, its jaws biting down on the blade. It fell back, shrieking its high insect shriek. It was dying, but it had taken Remiel with it. They subsided together into a sizzling puddle of ichor and adamas. Mark had used all the weapons Emma had given him. He pressed his back against the granite as another Mantid reached out. Emma's heart lurched into her throat. She raced forward, flinging herself at the wall, scrambling toward Mark. A massive Mantid loomed up in front of him. He reached for his throat as the Mantid leaned in, jaws gaping, and Emma wanted to scream at him to back down, back away. Something shone between his fingers. A silver chain, gleaming arrowhead dangling. He whipped it forward toward the head of the Mantid, slashing open its bulging white eyes. Milky fluid burst forth. It reared back, screaming, just as Emma leaped to the ridge beside Mark and slashed Cortana forward to cut it in half. Mark dropped the chain back over his head as Emma swore and pressed her only seraph blade into his hand. Ichor was running down the blade of Cortana, burning her skin. She gritted her teeth and ignored the pain as Mark raised his new blade. "Name it," she said, breathing hard, pulling a knife from her belt. She clutched it in her right hand, Cortana in her left. Mark nodded. "Raguel," he said, and the blade exploded with light. The Mantids screeched, crouching down, wincing away from the glow, and Emma leaped from the rock. She fell, whipping Cortana and the dagger around herself like the blades of a helicopter. The air was filled with insectile screeches as her weapons connected with chitin and flesh. The world had slowed. She was still falling. She had all the time in the world. She reached out, left hand and right, severing head from thorax, mesothorax from metathorax, hacking through the jaws of two Mantids to leave them drowning in their own blood. A foreleg reached for her. She slashed through it with an angled twist of Cortana. When she hit the ground six Mantid bodies tumbled after her, each landing with a dull thud and vanishing. Only the foreleg remained, sticking into the ground like a strange cactus plant. The remaining Mantids were circling, hissing and clicking, but not yet attacking. They seemed wary, as if even their tiny bug brains had noted the fact that she was a danger to them. One of them was missing its foreleg. She glanced toward Mark. He was still balanced on the rock outcropping-- she couldn't blame him; it made an excellent fixed position to fight from. As she watched, a Mantid lunged toward him, swiping a razored limb across his chest; he brought Raguel down, stabbing into its abdomen. It roared, staggering back. In the bright light of the seraph blade, Emma saw blood bloom across Mark's shirt, red-black. "Mark," she whispered. He spun gracefully. His seraph blade cut the Mantid apart. It fell into two pieces, vanishing just as the night exploded with light. A car burst from the road and hurtled into the center of the clearing. A familiar red Toyota. The headlights burned through the darkness, sweeping across the field, illuminating the Mantids. A figure knelt on the car's roof, a light crossbow raised to its shoulder. Julian. The car shot forward, and Julian rose to his feet, lifting the crossbow. It was an intricate weapon, Julian's crossbow, capable of firing multiple bolts fast. He pivoted toward the demons, firing off a bolt, then another, all the while riding the roof of the car like a surfboard, his feet firmly planted as the Toyota bumped and hurtled over the rough ground. Pride swelled in Emma. People often acted as if Julian couldn't be a warrior because he was gentle in his life, gentle to his friends and family. People were wrong. Each bolt connected, each sank home into the body of a demon. The bolts were runed: As they struck, the Mantids exploded with silent screams. The car screeched through the clearing. Emma saw Cristina at the wheel, her jaw set. The Mantid demons were scattering, vanishing back into the shadows. Cristina gunned the engine, and the car rammed into several of them, mashing them flat. Mark leaped off the rock, landing in a crouch, and dispatched a twitching, spasming demon, grinding his blade into its anvil shaped head and smearing it across the grass. The front of his shirt was dark with blood. As the demon vanished with a wet, sticky sound, Mark collapsed to his knees, his seraph blade tumbling into the grass beside him. The car jerked to a halt. Cristina had just flung the driver's door open when one of the Mantids slithered out from under the wheels of the car. It bounded toward Mark. Julian shouted aloud, leaping down from the car. The Mantid reared up over Mark, who shoved himself up on his knees, reaching for the chain around his neck-- Energy poured through Emma, like a jolt of caffeine. Julian's presence, making her stronger. She jerked the severed foreleg out of the ground in front of her and flung it. It whipped through the air, spinning like a propeller, and punched into the body of the Mantid with a thick smack. The demon shrieked in agony and disappeared in a cloud of ichor. Mark sank back into the grass. Julian was bending over him, Emma already running. Jules had his stele out. "Mark," he said as Emma reached them. "Mark, please--" "No," Mark said thickly. He batted away his brother's hands. "No runes." He dragged himself to his knees, then his feet, and stood swaying. "No runes, Julian." He glanced toward Emma. "Are you all right?" "I'm fine," Emma said, sheathing Cortana. The coldness of battle had faded away, leaving her feeling light-headed. In the moonlight Julian's eyes were a coldly burning blue. He was in gear, his dark hair a mess from the wind, his right hand clasping the stock of his crossbow. He put his other hand up to her face. Her gaze felt dragged up to his. She could see the night sky in his pupils. "Fine?" he echoed, and his voice was rough. "You're bleeding." He lowered his arm. His fingers were red. Her free hand sprang to her cheek; she felt the ragged cut, the blood. The sting. "I didn't realize," she said, and then, the words spilling out: "How did you find us? Jules, how did you know where to go?" Before Julian could answer, the Toyota backed up with a roar, spun around, and drove back toward them. Cristina leaned out the driver's side window, her medallion gleaming at her throat. "Let's go," she said. "It's dangerous here." "The demons have not gone," Mark agreed. "They have only retreated." He wasn't wrong. The night around them was alive with moving shadows. They clambered hastily into the car: Emma beside Cristina, Julian and Mark in the backseat. As the car sped away from the cave, Emma reached into her cardigan pocket, feeling for the hard square of leather. The wallet. It was still there. She felt a burst of relief. She was here, in the car, with Julian beside her, and evidence in her hand. Everything was all right. "You need an iratze," said Julian. "Mark--" "Stay away from me with that thing," said his brother in a low, intent voice, glaring at Julian and the stele in his hand. "Or I will leap from the window of this moving vehicle." "Oh, no you won't," said Cristina in her calm, sweet voice, reaching to depress the button that locked all the car doors with a firm click. "You're bleeding," Julian said. "All over the car." Emma craned around in her seat to look back at them. Mark's shirt was bloody, but he didn't seem to be in much pain. His eyes flickered with annoyance. "I am still protected by the magic of the Wild Hunt," he said. "My wounds heal quickly. You need not trouble yourself." He picked up the edge of his shirt and mopped at the blood on his chest; Emma caught a quick glimpse of pale skin stretched tightly over a hard stomach, and the edges of old scars. "It's a good thing you showed up when you did," Emma said, turning to look at Cristina and then Julian. "I don't know how you figured out what was going on, but--" "We didn't," Julian said shortly. "After you hung up on Cristina, we checked your phone's GPS and realized you were out here. It seemed weird enough to follow up." "But you didn't know we were in trouble," Emma realized. "Just that we were at the convergence." Cristina gave her an expressive look. Julian didn't say anything. Emma unzipped her cardigan and shrugged out of it, transferring Wells's wallet to the pocket of her jeans. Battle brought on a sort of numbness, a lack of awareness of injury that let her go forward. The aches and pains were coming now, and she winced as she peeled her sleeve away from her forearm. A long burn reached from her elbow to her wrist, red-black at the edges. She glanced up at the rearview mirror and saw Jules registering the injury. He leaned forward. "Can you pull over here, Cristina?" Unfailingly polite Jules. Emma tried to smile at him in the mirror, but he wasn't looking at her. Cristina pulled off the highway and into the parking lot of the seafood shack Emma and Mark had flown over earlier. A massive neon sign reading poseidon s trident hung over the ramshackle building. The four of them piled out of the car. The shack was nearly deserted except for a few tables of long-distance truckers and campers from the sites down the road, huddling over coffee and plates of fried oysters. Cristina insisted on going inside to order them some food and drinks; after a moment's argument, they let her. Julian threw his jacket on a table, claiming it. "There's an outdoor shower around the back," he said. "And some privacy. Come on." "How do you know that?" Emma asked, joining him as he stalked around the building. He didn't answer. She could feel his anger, not just in the way he looked at her, but in a tight knot under her rib cage. The dirt path that circled the shack opened out into an area ringed by Dumpsters. There was a massive steel double sink, and--as Jules had promised--a large open shower with surfing equipment stacked next to it. Mark crossed the sand to the shower and flipped the spigot. "Wait," Julian began. "You'll get--" Water poured down, soaking Mark instantly. He lifted his face up to it as calmly as if he were bathing in tropical rainfall and not unheated shower water on a chilly night. "--Wet." Julian raked his fingers through his tangled hair. Chocolate- colored hair, Emma had thought when she was younger. People thought brown hair was boring, but it wasn't: Julian's had bits of gold in it and hints of russet and coffee. Emma went to the sink and ran water over the cut on her arm, then splashed it up over her face and neck, rinsing off the ichor. Demon blood was toxic: It could burn your skin, and it was a bad idea to get it into your mouth and eyes. Mark flipped the shower off and stepped away, water streaming off him. She wondered if he was uncomfortable--his jeans stuck to him, as did his shirt. His hair was plastered to his neck. His eyes met hers. Cold burning blue and colder gold. In them Emma saw the wildness of the Hunt: the emptiness and freedom of the skies. It made her shiver. She saw Julian look at her sharply. He said something to Mark, who nodded and vanished around the side of the building. Emma reached to turn the sink water off, wincing: There was a burn on her palm. She reached for her stele. "Don't," said Jules's voice, and there was a warm presence behind her suddenly. She gripped the edge of the sink and closed her eyes, feeling momentarily dizzy. The heat of Jules's body was palpable up and down her back. "Let me." Healing runes--any runes--given to you by your parabatai worked better, amplified by the magic of the bonding spell. Emma turned around, her back against the sink. Julian was so close to her that she had to turn carefully so as not to bump into him. He smelled of fire and cloves and paint. Goose bumps exploded across her skin as he took her arm, cupping her wrist, drawing his stele with his free hand. She could feel the path each of his fingers traced on the sensitive skin of her forearm. His skin was hard with calluses, roughened with turpentine. "Jules," she said. "I'm sorry." "Sorry for what?" "Going to the convergence without you," she said. "I wasn't trying to--" "Why did you?" he asked, and the stele began its journey over her skin, forming the lines of the healing rune. "Why go off with just Mark?" "The motorcycle," Emma said. "It could only take two. The motorcycle," she said again, at Julian's blank look, and then remembered the Mantid demon crushing it in its jagged, razored arms. "Right," she said. "Mark's steed? The one the faerie convoy was talking about in the Sanctuary? It was a motorcycle. One of the Mantids crushed it, so I guess it's an ex-motorcycle." The iratze was finished. Emma drew her hand back, watching as the cut began to heal itself, closing up like a seam. "You're not even wearing gear," Julian said. He sounded quiet, intent, but his fingers were trembling as he put his stele away. "You're still human, Emma." "I was fine--" "You can't do this to me." The words sounded as if they had been dredged up from the bottom of the ocean. She froze. "Do what?" "I'm your parabatai," he said as if the words were final, and in a way, they were. "You were facing down what, two dozen Mantid demons before we got there? If Cristina hadn't called you--" "I would have fought them off," Emma said heatedly. "I'm glad you showed up, thank you, but I would have gotten us out of there--" "Maybe!" His voice rose. "Maybe you would have, maybe you could have done it, but what if you didn't? What if you died? It would kill me, Emma, it would kill me. You know what happens ..." He didn't finish the sentence. You know what happens to someone when their parabatai dies. They stood, staring at each other, breathing hard. "When you were away, I felt it here," Emma said finally, touching her upper arm, where the parabatai rune was etched. "Did you feel it?" She splayed her hand over the front of his T-shirt, warm from his body. Julian's rune was at the outside edge of his collarbone, about five inches above his heart. "Yeah," he said, eyelashes lowering as his gaze traced the movement of her fingers. "It hurt me being away from you. It feels like there's a hook dug in under my ribs, and there's something pulling at the other end. Like I'm tethered to you, no matter the distance." Emma inhaled sharply. She was remembering Julian, fourteen years old, in the overlapping circles of fire in the Silent City, where the parabatai ritual was performed. The look on his face as they each stepped into the central circle and the fire rose up around them, and he unbuttoned his shirt to let her touch the stele to his skin and carve the rune that would bind them together for their whole lives. She knew if she just moved her hand now, she could touch the rune cut into his chest, the rune she had put there. . . . She reached out and touched his collarbone. She could feel the warmth of his skin through his shirt. He half-closed his eyes, as if her touch hurt. Please don't be angry, Jules, she thought. Please. "I'm not a Blackthorn," she said, her voice ragged. "What?" "I'm not a Blackthorn," she said again. The words hurt to say: They came from a deep place of truth, one she hesitated to look at too closely. "I don't belong in the Institute. I'm there because of you, because I'm your parabatai, so they had to let me stay. The rest of you don't have to prove you're giving back. I do. Everything I do is a--is a test." Julian's face had changed; he was looking down at her in the moonlight, the Cupid's bow of his lips parted. His hands came up and gently looped her upper arms. Sometimes, she thought, it was as if she were a kite, and Julian the flier: She soared above the ground, and he kept her tethered to the earth. Without him she would be lost among the clouds. She lifted her head. She could feel his breath on her face. There was something in his eyes, something breaking open, not like a crack in a wall but like a door swinging wide, and she could see the light. "I'm not testing you, Emma," he said. "You've proved everything to me already." There was a wild feeling in Emma's blood, the desire to seize Julian, to do something, something, crush his hands in hers, put her arms around him, cause them both pain, make them both taste the same seeking desperation. She couldn't understand it, and it terrified her. She moved aside, gently breaking Julian's hold on her. "We should get back to Mark and Cristina," she murmured. "It's been a while." She turned away from him, but not before she saw the expression on his face shut, a slamming door. She felt it like a hollow in her stomach, the intractable certainly that no matter how many demons she had killed that night, her nerve had failed her when she needed it most. When they got back to the front of the restaurant, they found Mark and Cristina seated on top of a picnic table, surrounded by cardboard boxes of french fries, buttered rolls, fried clams, and fish tacos. Cristina was holding a bottle of lime soda and smiling at something Mark had said. The wind off the ocean had dried Mark's hair. It blew around his face, highlighting how much he looked like a faerie and how little he seemed like Nephilim. "Mark was telling me about the fight at the convergence point," said Cristina as Emma clambered onto the table and reached for a fry. Julian climbed up after her and snagged a soda. Emma launched into her own version of events, from their discovery of the cave and the wallet to the appearance of the Mantid demons. "They crushed Mark's motorcycle so we couldn't get away," she said. Mark looked glum. "Thy steed is no more, methinks," Emma said to him. "Will they get you another one?" "Unlikely," said Mark. "The Fair Folk are not generous." Julian looked at Emma with his eyebrows raised. "Methinks?" he echoed. "I can't help it." She shrugged. "It's catching." Cristina held out a hand. "Let's see what you found," she said. "Since you sacrificed so much to get it." Emma pulled the square leather object from her pocket and let them all pass it around. Next she retrieved her phone and held it out while she flipped through the photos of the inside of the cave with the odd languages scrawled on the walls. "We can translate the Greek and Latin," said Emma. "But we'll need to hit the library for the other languages." "Stanley Wells," said Julian, looking through the half-burned wallet. "Name sounds familiar." "When we get back, Ty and Livvy can find out who he is," Emma said. "And we can figure out his address, see if there's anything to find at his house. See if there's a reason he might have been targeted for sacrifice." "They could be randomly chosen," said Julian. "They are not," said Mark. They all paused, Julian with a bottle halfway to his mouth. "What?" Emma said. "Not everyone makes a fit subject to be sacrificed for a summoning spell," said Mark. "It cannot be completely random." "They teach you much about dark magic in the Wild Hunt?" Julian asked. "The Wild Hunt is dark magic," said Mark. "I recognized the circle in the cave." He tapped Emma's phone. "This is a sacrificial circle. This is necromancy. The power of death harnessed to some purpose." They were all quiet for a moment. The cold wind off the ocean ruffled Emma's damp hair. "The Mantids were guards," she said finally. "Whoever the necromancer is doesn't want anyone finding the secret ceremonial chamber." "Because he needs it," said Jules. "It could be a she," said Emma. "It isn't just men who get to be psycho magic serial killers." "Granted," said Julian. "Either way, there's nowhere else near the city with a ley line convergence like this. Necromancy that was done at a ley line extension would probably show up on Magnus's map--but what if it was done at a convergence?" "Then it might well be hidden from the Nephilim," said Mark. "The killer could be doing the ceremonial killings at the convergence point--" "And then dumping the bodies at the ley line extensions?" finished Cristina. "But why? Why not leave them in the cave?" "Perhaps they want the bodies to be found," said Mark. "After all, the marks on them are writing. It could be a message. A message they want to communicate." "Then they should have written the message in a language we know," Emma muttered. "Maybe the message isn't for us," said Mark. "The convergence will have to be watched," said Cristina. "Someone will have to monitor it. There is no other convergence point; the murderer will have to come back at some point." "Agreed," Julian said. "We'll need to set up something at the convergence. Something that'll warn us." "Tomorrow, during the day," Emma said. "The Mantid demons ought to be inactive--" Julian laughed. "You know what we have tomorrow? Testing," he said. Twice a year Diana was required to test them on certain basics, from rune drawing to training to languages, and report back to the Clave on their progress. There was a chorus of protest. Julian held his hands up. "I'll text Diana about it," he said. "But if we don't do it, the Clave will get suspicious." Mark said something unprintable about what the Clave could do with its suspicions. "I don't think I know that word," Cristina said, looking amused. "I'm not sure I do either," Emma said. "And I know a lot of bad words." Mark leaned back with the beginning of a smile, then sucked in his breath. He pulled his bloody shirt collar away from his neck and glanced down gingerly at his injured chest. Julian set his bottle down. "Let me see." Mark let go of his collar. "There is nothing you can do. It will heal." "It's a demon injury," said Julian. "Let me see it." Mark looked at him, startled. The waves made a soft soughing sound around them. There was no one left outside the restaurant except them; the other tables had emptied. Mark hadn't heard that voice of Julian's before, Emma thought, the one that brooked no argument, the one that sounded like a grown man's. The kind of man you listened to. Mark lifted the front of his shirt. The cut ran jaggedly across his chest. It was no longer bleeding, but the sight of the ragged pale flesh made Emma grit her teeth. "Let me--'' Julian began. Mark sprang off the table. "I am fine," he said. "I do not need your healing magic. I do not need your runes of safety." He touched his shoulder, where a black Mark bloomed like a butterfly: a permanent rune of protection. "I have had this since I was ten," he said. "I had this when they took me, and this when they broke me and made me one of them. Never has it helped me. The runes of the Angel are lies cast into the teeth of Heaven." Hurt bloomed and faded in Julian's eyes. "They're not perfect," he said. "Nothing is perfect. But they do help. I just don't want to see you hurt." "Mark," Cristina said in a soft voice. But Mark had gone somewhere else, somewhere where none of their voices could reach him. He stood with his eyes blazing, his hands opening and closing into fists. Slowly, his hand came up, caught the hem of his shirt. Pulled it up and over his head. He shrugged the shirt off, dropping it to the sand. Emma saw pale skin, much paler than hers, a hard chest and a narrow waist cut with the fine lines of old scars. Then he turned around. His back was covered in runes, from nape to waist. But not like a normal Shadowhunter's, where the black Marks faded eventually to a thin white line against the skin. These were raised and thick and livid. Julian had gone white around the mouth. "What. . . ?" "When I first came to Faerie, they mocked me for my Nephilim blood," Mark said. "The Folk of the Unseelie Court took my stele and broke it, they said it was nothing but a dirty stick. And when I fought back for it, they used knives to cut the Angel's runes into my skin. After that I stopped fighting with them about Shadowhunters. And I swore no other rune would touch my skin." He bent down and picked up his bloody, wet shirt, and stood facing them, his rage gone, vulnerable again. "Maybe they could still be healed," Emma said. "The Silent Brothers--" "I don't need them healed," said Mark. "They serve as a reminder." Julian slid off the table. "A reminder of what?" "Not to trust," said Mark. Cristina looked at Emma across the boys' heads. There was a terrible sadness on her face. "I am sorry your protection rune failed you," Julian said, and his voice was low and careful, and Emma had never wanted to put her arms around him so much as she did then, as he faced his brother in the ocean-washed moonlight, his heart in his eyes. His hair was a tangle, his soft curls like question marks against his forehead. "But there are other kinds of protection. Your family protects you. We will always protect you, Mark. We won't let them make you go back." Mark smiled, the oddest, sad smile. "I know," he said. "My gentle little brother. I know." <|title|>Chapter 10: And She Was a Child <|startofchapter|>"It's done," Diana said, tossing her duffel bag onto the kitchen island with a clanking sound. Emma looked up. She'd been over by the window with Cristina, testing the bandages on her hands. Julian's healing runes had taken care of most of her injuries, but there were some ichor burns that were still sore. Livvy, Dru, and Tavvy were crowded around the kitchen table, fighting over who got the chocolate milk. Ty had his headphones on and was reading, calm in his own world. Julian was at the stove, making bacon and toast and eggs--with burned bits in them, the way Dru liked. Diana went over to the sink and rinsed off her hands. She was in jeans and a T-shirt, dirt on her clothes and streaking her face. Her hair was pulled back in a tightly knotted bun. "You set it up?" Emma asked. "The monitor on the convergence?" Diana nodded, reaching for a dish towel to dry her hands. "Julian texted me about it. Did you think I was about to let you get out of the Clave testing?" There were groans. "Thought, no," said Emma. "Hoped, maybe." "Anyway, I did it myself," Diana said. "If anyone goes in and out of that cave, we'll get a call on the Institute's phone." "And if we're not home?" Julian asked. "Texts," Diana said, turning around so that her back was to the sink. "Texts go to Julian, Emma, and myself." "Why not Arthur?" Cristina said. "Does he not have a cell phone?" He didn't, as far as Emma knew, but Diana didn't answer that. "Now here's the other thing," she said. "Mantid demons guard the convergence during the night, but as you know, demons are inactive outside during the day. They can't stand sunlight." "I wondered," said Emma. "It didn't make sense that whoever's doing this would leave the convergence unguarded for half the day." "You were right to wonder," Diana said. Her voice was neutral; Emma searched her face in vain for a clue to whether she was still angry. "During the day the door to the cave seals itself closed. I watched the entrance disappear when the sun rose. It didn't interfere with setting up the monitoring runes and wards--I did that outside the cave--but no one's going into that convergence while the sun's up." "All the murders, the body dumping, all of them have happened at night," Livvy said. "Maybe there's a demon behind this after all?" Diana sighed. "We just don't know. By the Angel, I need coffee." Cristina hurried to get her a mug, while Diana brushed at the dirt on her clothes, frowning. "Did Malcolm help set it up?" Julian asked. Diana took the coffee gratefully from Cristina and smiled. "All you need to know is that it's taken care of," she said. "Now, you've got testing today, so I'll see you in the classroom after breakfast." She left, taking her bag and her coffee with her. Dru looked glum. "I can't believe we have class," she said. She was wearing jeans and a T-shirt that had a picture of a screaming face and the words dr. terrors house of horrors across the front. "We're in the middle of an investigation," Livvy said. "We shouldn't have to take tests." "It's an affront," said Ty. "I am affronted." He had pushed his headphones down, but his hand was under the table. She could hear him clicking a retractable pen--it was something he had done often before Julian had built him better focus tools, but it was still something he did when anxious. Against a background of grumbling from everyone, Emma's phone trilled. She glanced down and saw the screen flash, cameron ashdown. Julian looked over for a moment, then went briskly back to stirring the eggs. He was in a combination of gear, apron, and torn T-shirt that at another time would have had Emma teasing him. Now she just edged toward the window and picked up the call. "Cam?" Emma said. "Is something going on?" Livvy looked over and rolled her eyes, then got up to start ferrying plates back and forth between the stove and the table. The rest of the kids were still arguing, though Tavvy had wound up with the chocolate milk. "I didn't call to ask you to get back together, if that's what you're thinking," Cameron said. She pictured him as his voice came down the phone: frowning, his red hair messy and askew as it always was in the morning. "Wow," said Emma. "Good morning to you, too." "Milk thief," Dru said to Tavvy, and put a piece of toast on his head. Emma stifled a smile. "I was at the Shadow Market," said Cam. "Yesterday." "Gasp! Shame on you." "I heard some gossip around Johnny Rook's table," he said. "It was about you. He said he'd argued with you a few days ago." His voice lowered. "You shouldn't be seeing him outside the Market, Em." Emma leaned back against the wall. Cristina gave her a pointed look, then sat down with the others; soon everyone was buttering toast and forking up eggs. "I know, I know. Johnny Rook is a criminal who does crime. I got the lecture already." Cam sounded put out. "Someone else said you were poking your nose into something that wasn't any of your business. And that if you kept doing it, they'd hurt you. Not the guy who said it--I shook him down a little, and he said he meant someone else. That he'd heard things. What are you poking around in, Emma?" Julian was still at the stove; Emma could tell by the set of his shoulders that he was listening. "It could be so many things." Cameron sighed. "Fine, be flip about it. I was worried about you. Be careful." "Always am," she said, and hung up. Silently, Julian handed her a plate of eggs. Emma accepted it, conscious that everyone was looking at her. She put the eggs down on the kitchen island and perched herself on one of the stools, poking at her breakfast with a spoon. "Okay," Livvy said. "If no one else asks, I will. What was that about?" Emma looked up, about to give an annoyed answer, when the words died in her throat. Mark was standing in the doorway. The tension of last night's altercation in the library seemed to reappear, dropping a heavy silence over the kitchen. The Blackthorns looked at their brother, wide-eyed; Cristina stared down at her coffee. Mark looked--normal. He wore a clean blue henley shirt and dark jeans that actually fit, along with a weapons belt around his waist, though there were no weapons in it. Still, it was unmistakably a Shadowhunter belt, runes of angelic power and precision punched into the leather. There were gauntlets on his wrists. They all stared at him, Julian with his spatula in midair. Mark put his shoulders back and for a moment Emma thought he was going to sweep another bow, the way he had last night. Instead he spoke. "I apologize for yesterday evening," he said. "I should not have blamed you, my family. The politics of the Clave are complex and often dark, and not your fault. I would like to, with your permission, start over and introduce myself to you." "But we know who you are," Ty said. Livvy leaned over and whispered in his ear, her hand brushing his shoulder. Ty looked back at Mark, clearly still puzzled, but also expectant. Mark took a step forward. "I am Mark Antony Blackthorn," he said. "I come from a long line of proud Shadowhunters. I have served with the Wild Hunt for years I cannot count. I have ridden through the air on a white horse made of smoke, and gathered up the bodies of the dead, and brought them to Faerie, where their bones and skin have fed the savage land. I have never felt guilty, but perhaps I should." He let his hands, which had been clasped behind his back, fall to his sides. "I don't know where I belong," he said. "But if you let me, I will try to belong here." There was a moment of silence. The kids at the table stared; Emma sat with her spoon poised, holding her breath. Mark looked toward Jules. Julian reached up to rub the back of his neck. "Why don't you sit down, Mark," he said a little hoarsely. "I'll make you some eggs." Mark was quiet all through breakfast, as Julian, Emma, and Cristina filled in the others on what they'd discovered the previous night. Emma kept the details of the Mantid attack minimal; she didn't want to give Tavvy nightmares. Stanley Wells's wallet was passed over to Ty, who looked thrilled to be handling a clue. He promised a full investigation of the unfortunate Stanley after the testing. Since Mark had no need to participate in the testing, Julian asked him if he would look after Tavvy in the library. "I will not feed him to a tree, as is done in the Unseelie Court with unruly children," Mark promised. "That's a relief," Julian said dryly. Mark bent down toward Tavvy, whose eyes were sparkling. "Come with me, little one," Mark said. "There are books in the library, that I remember, that I loved as a child. I could show them to you." Tavvy nodded and placed his hand in Mark's with total trust. Something went through Mark's eyes then, a lightning flash of emotion. He went out of the room with Tavvy without another word. Cameron's warning stayed with Emma through the rest of the meal, as they cleaned up, and after they all filed to the classroom to find Diana there, holding a heavy stack of testing papers. She couldn't get his words off her mind, and as a result scored dismally on languages and memorization of the classes of various demons and Downworlders. She mixed up Azazel and Asmodeus, Purgatic and Cthonian, and nixies and pixies. Diana glared at her as she marked the paper with Emma's name on it with a fat red pen. Everyone else scored high, and the few that Julian missed were ones Emma suspected he had gotten wrong on purpose to make her feel better. Emma was grateful when they finished up the written and oral parts of the test. They took a break for lunch before moving down the hall to the training room. Diana had already set up the space. There were targets for knife throwing, swords of various sizes, and, in the middle of the room, a large training dummy. It had a wooden trunk, several arms that could be positioned and repositioned, and a stuffed cloth head like a scarecrow. A circle of black-and-white powder surrounded the dummy--rock salt mixed with ash. "Attacking from a distance, with care and precision," Diana said. "Disrupt the ash circle and you fail." She moved toward the black box on the floor and flipped a switch. It was a radio. Noise exploded into the room, harsh and discordant. It sounded as if someone had recorded a mob in action, shouting and yelling and smashing windows. Livvy looked horrified. Ty winced and reached for his headphones, dropping them over his ears. "Distraction," said Diana loudly. "You have to work past it--" Before she could finish, there was a knock at the door: It was Mark, looking diffident. "Tavvy is busy with his books," he said to Diana, who had reached to turn the noise down slightly, "and you had asked if I could join this part of the testing. I thought it best to oblige." "But Mark doesn't need to be tested," objected Julian. "It's not as if his scores can be reported to the Clave." "Cristina doesn't need her scores reported either," Diana said. "But she's joining in. I want to see how you all do. If you're going to work together, it would be best if you all knew each other's skill levels." "I can fight," Mark said. He didn't add anything about the night before, the fact that he'd held off Mantid demons on his own, without new runes. "The Wild Hunt are warriors." "Yes, but they fight differently than Shadowhunters," Diana said, gesturing around the training room, at the runed blades, the adamas swords. "These are the weapons of your people." She turned back to the others. "Each of you must choose one." Mark's expression flattened at that, but he said nothing. Nor did he move as the rest of them scattered--Emma went for Cortana, Cristina for her butterfly knives, Livvy for her saber, and Dru for a long, thin misericord. Julian chose a pair of chakhrams, circular razored throwing stars. Ty hung back. Emma couldn't help but wonder if Diana noticed that it was Livvy who picked up a dagger for Ty and pressed it into his palm. Emma had seen Ty throw knives before: He was good at it, sometimes excellent, but only when he felt like it. When he didn't, there was no moving him. "Julian," Diana said, turning the music back up. "You first." Julian stepped back and threw, the chakhrams spinning from his hands like circles of light. One sheared off the training dummy's right arm, the other its left, before they buried themselves in the wall. "Your target isn't dead," Diana pointed out. "Just armless." "Exactly," said Julian. "So I can question him. Or it, you know, if it's a demon." "Very strategic." Diana tried to hide a smile as she made a note in her book. She picked up the dummy's arms and fastened them back on. "Livvy?" Livvy dispatched the dummy with a swing of her saber without passing the ash barrier. Dru acquitted herself decently with a thrown misericord, and Cristina flipped open her balisongs and hurled them so that one point of each blade stuck into the dummy's head exactly where its eyes would have been. "Gross," said Livvy admiringly. "I like it." Cristina retrieved her knives and winked at Emma, who had climbed partway up the rope ladder, Cortana in her free hand. "Emma?" Diana said, craning her head up. "What are you doing?" Emma flung herself from the ladder. It wasn't the cold fury of battle, but there was a moment of falling freedom that was pure pleasure, that drove the annoyance of Cameron's warning out of her mind. She landed on the dummy, feet planted on its shoulders, and slashed down, driving Cortana's hilt deep into its trunk. Then she flipped herself backward, over and down, landing on her feet inches outside the circle of ash. "That was showing off," Diana said, but she was smiling as she made another note. She glanced up. "Tiberius? It's your turn." Ty took a step toward the circle. The white band of his headphones was stark against his black hair. He was as tall as the dummy, Emma realized with a jolt. She often thought of Ty as the child he had been. But he wasn't--he was fifteen years old, older than she'd been when she and Julian had undergone the parabatai ceremony. His face wasn't a little boy's face anymore. Sharpness had replaced the softness. Ty lifted his knife. "Tiberius," said a voice from the doorway. "Take the headphones off." It was Uncle Arthur. They all looked up in surprise: Arthur rarely ventured downstairs, and when he did, he avoided conversation, meals--all contact. It was strange to see him hovering in the doorway like a gray ghost: gray robe, gray stubble, worn gray pants. "The pollution of mundane technology is everywhere," said Arthur. "In those phones you carry. Cars--at the London Institute we didn't own them. That computer you think I don't know about." An odd anger flashed across his face. "You're not going to be able to go into battle wearing headphones." He said the word as if it were poisonous. Diana closed her eyes. "Ty," she said. "Take them off." Ty slid the headphones down so that they hung around the back of his neck. He winced as the chatter of noise and voices from the radio struck his ears. "I won't be able to do it, then." "Then you'll fail," said Arthur. "This has to be fair." "If you don't let him use them, it won't be fair,'' said Emma. "This is the test. Everyone has to do it," Diana said. "Battle doesn't always happen under optimum conditions. There's noise, blood, distractions--" "I won't be in battle," Ty said. "I don't want to be that kind of Shadowhunter." Tiberius," Arthur said sharply. "Do as you're asked." Ty's face set. He lifted the knife and threw it, with deliberate awkwardness but great force. It slammed into the black plastic radio, which shattered into a hundred pieces. There was silence. Ty looked down at his right hand; it was bleeding. A piece of the shattered radio had gone wide and nicked his skin. Scowling, he went to stand by one of the pillars. Livvy watched him with miserable eyes; Julian made as if to start after him, when Emma caught him by the wrist. "Don't," she said. "Give him a minute." "My turn," said Mark. Diana turned toward him in surprise. He was already stalking toward the training dummy. He strode directly up to it, his boots scuffing the ash and salt on the ground. "Mark," Diana said, "you're not supposed to--" He caught hold of the dummy and yanked it toward himself, ripping the stuffed head from its body. Straw rained down around him. He tossed the head aside, seized hold of the attached arms, and bent them back until they snapped. He took a step back, planted his foot in the middle of the thing's trunk, and shoved. It went over with a crash. It would almost have been funny, Emma thought, if not for the look on his face. "These are the weapons of my people," he said, holding out his hands. A cut on the right one had opened and was bleeding. "You weren't supposed to touch the circle," said Diana. "Those are the rules, and I don't make them. The Clave--" "Lex malla, lex nulla," Mark said coldly, and walked away from the dummy. Emma heard Arthur draw in his breath at the words of the Blackthorn family motto. He turned without a word and stalked out of the room. Julian's eyes tracked his brother as Mark went toward Ty and leaned against the pillar beside him. Ty, who had been holding his right hand with his left, his jaw set, looked up in surprise. "Mark?" Mark touched his younger brother's hand, gently, and Ty did not pull away. They both had the Blackthorn fingers, long and delicate, with sharp, articulated bones. Slowly, the angry look faded from Ty's face. Instead he looked sideways up at his brother, as if the answer to a question Emma couldn't guess at could be read in Mark's face. She remembered what Ty had said about his brother in the library. It's not his fault if he doesn't understand everything. Or if things are too much for him. It's not his fault. "Now we both have hurt hands," Mark said. "Julian," Diana said. "We need to talk about Ty." Julian stood motionless in front of her desk. He could see past Diana, past the huge glass windows behind her, down to the highway and the beach below, and the ocean beyond that. He held a very clear memory in his mind, though he no longer remembered how old he had been when it happened. He had been on the beach, sketching the sun going down and the surfers out in the water. A loose sketch, more about the joy of movement than about getting the picture right. Ty had been there too, playing: He had been building a row of small, perfect squares of damp sand, each exactly the same size and shape. Julian had looked at his own inexact, messy work and Ty's methodical rows, and thought: We both see the same world, but in a different way. Ty feels the same joy I do, the joy of creation. We feel all the same things, only the shapes of our feelings are different. "This was Arthur's fault," said Julian. "I--I don't know why he did that." He knew he sounded troubled. He couldn't help it. Usually on Arthur's bad days, his hate and anger were turned inward, toward himself. He wouldn't have thought his uncle even knew of Ty's headphones: He didn't think Arthur paid attention to any of them enough to notice such things, and to Ty least of all. "I don't know why he treated Ty that way." "We can be cruelest to those who remind us of ourselves." "Ty is not like Arthur." Julian's voice sharpened. "And he shouldn't have to pay for what Arthur does. You should let him do the test again, with the headphones." "Not necessary," Diana said. "I know what Ty can do; I'll amend his test scores to reflect that. You don't have to worry about the Clave." Julian looked at her, puzzled. "If this isn't about Ty's scores, why did you want to see me?" "You heard what Ty said in there," Diana said. "He doesn't want to be that kind of Shadowhunter. He wants to go to the Scholomance. It's why he refuses to be parabatai with Livvy. And you know he'd do almost anything for her." Ty and Livvy were in the computer room now, searching for whatever they could find on Stanley Wells. Ty seemed to have put his anger at the testing aside, had even smiled after Mark had come to talk to him. Julian wondered if it was wrong to feel irrationally jealous that Mark, who had reappeared in their life only yesterday, was able to talk to his younger brother when he was not. Julian loved Ty more than he loved his own life, and yet he hadn't thought of anything as elegantly simple to say to his brother as now we both have hurt hands. "He can't go," Julian said. "He's only fifteen. The other students are eighteen at least. It's meant for Academy graduates." "He's as smart as any Academy graduate," Diana said. "He knows as much." She leaned forward, elbows on her glass desk. Behind her the ocean stretched to the horizon. It was creeping toward late afternoon, and the water was a dark silver-blue. Julian thought about what would happen if he brought his hand down hard on the desk; did he have the strength to shatter the glass? "It's not about what he knows," Julian said, and stopped himself. He was getting dangerously close to exactly what they never talked about: the way in which Ty was different. Julian often thought the Clave was a black shadow over his life. They had stolen his older brother and sister from him just as much as the Fair Folk had. Down through the centuries, the exact way Shadowhunters could and should behave had been strictly regimented. Tell a mundane about the Shadow World and be disciplined, even exiled. Fall in love with a mundane, or your parabatai, and have your Marks ripped off--an agonizing process not everyone survived. Julian's art, his father's interest in the classics: all had been regarded with deep suspicion. Shadowhunters weren't meant to have outside interests. Shadowhunters weren't artists. They were warriors, born and bred, like Spartans. And individuality was not something they valued. Ty's thoughts, his beautiful, curious mind, were not like everyone else's. Julian had heard stories--whispers, really--of other Shadowhunter children who thought or felt differently. Who had trouble focusing. Who claimed letters rearranged themselves on the page when they tried to read them. Who fell prey to dark sadnesses that seemed to have no reason, or fits of energy they couldn't control. Whispers were all there were, though, because the Clave hated to admit that Nephilim like that existed. They were disappeared into the "dregs" portion of the Academy, trained to stay out of the way of other Shadowhunters. Sent to far corners of the globe like shameful secrets to be hidden. There were no words to describe Shadowhunters whose minds were shaped differently, no real words to describe differences at all. Because if there were words, Julian thought, there would have to be acknowledgment. And there were things the Clave refused to acknowledge. "They'll make him feel like there's something wrong with him," Julian said. "There's nothing wrong with him." "I know that." Diana sounded sorrowful. Tired. Julian wondered where she had gone the day before, when they'd been at Malcolm's. Who had helped her ward the convergence. "They'll try to force him into their mold of what a Shadowhunter ought to be like. He doesn't know what they'll do--" "Because you haven't told him," Diana said. "If he has a rosy picture in his mind of what the Scholomance is like, it's because you've never corrected him. Yeah, it's harsh there. It's brutal. Tell him so." "You want me to tell him he's different," Julian said coldly. "He's not stupid, Diana. He knows that." "No," said Diana, standing up. "I want you to tell him how the Clave feels about people who are different. Shadowhunters who are different. Because how can he make up his mind if he doesn't have all the information?" "He's my little brother," Julian snapped. The day outside was hazy; parts of the windows seemed mirrored, and he could see bits of himself--an edge of cheekbone, a set jaw, tangled hair. The look in his own eyes frightened him. "He's three years from graduation--" Diana's brown eyes were fierce. "I know you've basically brought him up since he was ten, Julian. I know you feel like all of them are your children. And they are yours, but Livvy and Ty at least aren't children anymore. You're going to have to let go--" "You're telling me to be more forthcoming?" Julian demanded. "Really?" Her jaw tightened. "You're walking the edge of a razor blade, Julian, with everything you hide. Believe me. I've walked that razor blade half my life. You get used to it, so used to it sometimes you forget that you're bleeding." "I don't suppose you want to be any more specific about that?" "You have your secrets. I have mine." "I can't believe this." Julian wanted to yell, punch a wall. "Keeping secrets is all you ever do. Remember when I asked you if you wanted to run the Institute? Remember when you said no and told me not to ask why?" Diana sighed and ran one finger along the back of her chair. "Being angry at me won't help anything, Jules." "You might be right," he said. "But that's the one thing you could have done that would probably really have helped me. And you didn't. So forgive me if I feel like I'm in this totally alone. I love Ty, God, believe me, I want him to have what he wants. But say I told Ty how harsh the Scholomance was, and he wanted to go anyway. Could you promise me that he'd be fine there? Could you swear he and Livvy would be all right separated when they've never spent a day apart in their whole lives? Can you guarantee it?" She shook her head. She looked defeated, and Julian felt no sense of triumph. "I could tell you there are no guarantees in life, Julian Blackthorn, but I can already see you don't want to hear anything I say about Ty," she said. "So I'll tell you something else instead. You may be the most determined person I've ever known. For five years, you have kept everything and everyone in this house together in a way I wouldn't have thought was possible." She looked directly at him. "But this situation can't hold. It's like a fault line in the earth. It will break apart under pressure, and then what? What will you lose-- what will we lose--when that happens?" "What is this?" Mark asked, picking up Tavvy's stuffed lemur, Mr. Limpet, and holding it gingerly by one foot. Mark was sitting on the floor of the computer room with Emma, Tavvy, and Dru. Dru had a book called Danse Macabre in one hand and was ignoring them. Tavvy was trying to get Mark, wet-haired and barefoot, to play with him. Cristina hadn't yet returned from changing out of training clothes. Ty and Livvy, meanwhile, were manning the desk--Ty was typing, and Livvy was sitting on the desk beside the keyboard, issuing orders and suggestions. Stanley Wells had turned out to have an unlisted address, and Emma strongly suspected that whatever they were doing to try to track it down was probably illegal. "Here," Emma said, reaching out to Mark. "Give me Mr. Limpet." She was feeling anxious and unsettled. Diana had wrapped up the testing shortly after Arthur had left, and had called Julian to her office. The way he'd thrown his testing gear into a corner of the training room before following her had made Emma think it wasn't an interview he was looking forward to. Cristina came into the room, running her fingers through her long, wet black hair. Mark, holding out Mr. Limpet to Emma, looked up--and there was a tearing sound. The lemur's leg came away and its body thumped to the ground, scattering stuffing. Mark said something in an unrecognizable language. "You killed Mr. Limpet," said Tavvy. "I think he died of old age, Tavs," said Emma, picking up the stuffed lemur's body. "You've had him since you were born." "Or gangrene," Drusilla said, looking up from her book. "It could have been gangrene." "Oh no!" Cristina's eyes were wide. "Wait here--I'll be right back." "Don't--" Mark began, but Cristina had already hurried from the room. "I am a clodpole," he said mournfully. He reached to ruffle Tavvy's hair. "I am sorry, little one." "Did you get an address for Wells?" It was Julian, striding into the room. Livvy held up her arms in triumph. "Yep. It's in the Hollywood Hills." "No surprise there," Emma said. Rich people often lived in the Hills. She was fond of the area herself, despite the expensiveness of the neighborhood. She liked the twisty roads, the massive sprays of flowers climbing over walls and down the sides of houses, and the views out over the electric, lit-up city. At night the air that blew through the Hills smelled like white flowers: oleander and honeysuckle, and a dry promise of the desert, miles away. "There are sixteen people named Stanley Wells in the greater Los Angeles area," said Ty, swinging his chair around. "We narrowed the possibilities down." "Good work," Julian said as Tavvy sprang up and came over to him. "Mr. Limpet died," Tavvy said, tugging on Julian's jeans. Jules reached down and lifted him up in his arms. "Sorry, kiddo," Julian said, putting his chin down on Tavvy's curls. "We'll get you something else." "I am a murderer," said Mark gloomily. "Don't be dramatic," Emma whispered, kicking his bare ankle. Mark looked cross. "Faeries are dramatic. It's what we do." "I loved Mr. Limpet," said Tavvy. "He was a good lemur." "There are lots of other good animals." Tiberius spoke earnestly; animals were one of his favorite subjects, along with detectives and crime. Tavvy smiled at him, his face full of trust and love. "Foxes are smarter than dogs. You can hear lions roar from forty kilometers away. Penguins--" "And bears," Cristina said, reappearing breathlessly in the doorway. She handed Tavvy a stuffed gray bear. He looked at it dubiously. "That was mine when I was a little girl," she explained. "What's its name?" Tavvy inquired. "Oso," said Cristina, and shrugged. "It means 'bear' in Spanish. I was not very creative." "Oso." Tavvy took the bear and smiled a gap-toothed smile. Julian looked at Cristina as if she'd brought him water in the desert. Emma thought of what Livvy had said about Jules and Cristina in the training room, and felt a small, inexplicable sting at her heart. Livvy was chattering away to Jules, swinging her legs cheerfully. "So we should all go," she said. "Ty and I can go in the car with Emma and Mark, and you can go with Cristina, and Diana can stay here--" Julian set his little brother down. "Nice try," he said. "But this is really a two-person job. Emma and I will be in and out fast, see if there's anything unusual about the house, that's it." "We never get to do anything fun," protested Livvy. "I should be allowed to examine the house," Ty said. "You'll miss everything important. All the clues." "Thanks for the vote of confidence," Julian said dryly. "Look, Livs, Ty- Ty, we really need you here to go over the photos from the convergence cave. See if you can identify the languages, translate them--" "More translating," Livvy said. "Sounds thrilling." "It will be fun," Cristina said. "We can make hot chocolate and work in the library." She smiled, and Julian shot her a second grateful look. "It's not busywork," Julian promised. "It's because you guys can genuinely do things we can't." He nodded toward the computer. Livvy flushed, and Ty looked pleased. Mark, however, didn't. "I should go with you," he said to Jules. "The Courts wished me to be part of the investigation. To accompany you." Julian shook his head. "Not tonight. We need to figure out what to do about not being able to use runes on you." "I don't need them--" Mark began. "You do." There was steel in Julian's voice. "You need glamour runes, if you want to blend in. And you're still injured from last night. Even if you do heal quickly, I saw you reopened your wound in the training room-- you were bleeding--" "My blood is not your concern," Mark said. "It is," said Julian. "That's what it means to be family." "Family," Mark began bitterly, and then seemed to realize that his younger siblings were there and were looking at him, silent and still. Cristina, too, was quiet, gazing at Emma across the room, her gaze dark and worried. Mark seemed to swallow back whatever he had been about to say. "If I had wanted to take orders, I would have stayed with the Hunt," he said instead, in a low voice, and walked out the door. <|title|>Chapter 11: A Maiden There Lived <|startofchapter|>"I think Ty's doubled up on his detective reading," Julian said with a smile. He had his window cranked down, and the air blowing into the car lifted his curling hair off his forehead. "He asked me if I thought the killings were an inside job." "Inside what?" Emma smiled. She was leaning back in the passenger seat of the car, her booted feet up on the dashboard. The windows were open to the night, and Emma could hear the sounds of the city rising all around them as they idled at a red light. They had turned up Sunset off the Coast Highway. At first as they wound through the canyons and into Beverly Hills and Bel Air, the suburbs were quiet, but they had moved into the heart of Hollywood now, the Sunset Strip, lined with expensive restaurants and massive, hundred-foot-high billboards plastered with ads for movies and TV shows. The streets were crowded and noisy: tourists posing for photos with celebrity imitators, street musicians collecting change, pedestrians hurrying back and forth from work. Julian seemed more at ease than he had in the past few days, leaning back in his seat, his hands casual on the wheel. Emma knew exactly how he felt. Here, in gear jacket and jeans, with Julian beside her and Cortana in the trunk, she felt like she belonged. Emma had tried to bring up Mark, briefly, when they had first settled into the car. Julian had only shaken his head and said, "He's getting adjusted," and that was all. She sensed he didn't want to talk about Mark, and that was fine: She didn't know that she had any solutions to offer. And it was easy, so easy, to slip back into their normal joking banter. "I think he was asking if I thought the killer was a Shadowhunter." Traffic was gathering as they reached the intersection of Sunset and Vine, and the car rolled slowly under the palm trees and neon. "I said no--it was obviously someone who knew magic, and I didn't think a Shadowhunter would hire a warlock to murder for them. Mostly we do our own murdering." Emma giggled. "You told him Shadowhunters are DIY about their killing?" "We're DIY about everything." The traffic started up again; Emma glanced down, watching the play of muscle and tendon in Jules's hand as he shifted gears. The car slid forward, and Emma glanced out the window at the people in line at Grauman's Chinese Theatre. She wondered idly what they would think if they knew the two teenagers in the Toyota were actually demon hunters with a trunk full of crossbows, polearms, daggers, katanas, and throwing knives. "Everything all right with Diana?" Emma asked. "She wanted to talk about Ty." Julian's voice was even, but Emma saw him swallow. "He wants so badly to go to the Scholomance and study. They have access to the libraries of the Spiral Labyrinth, the Silent Brothers' archives--I mean, think of everything we don't know about runes and rituals, the mysteries and puzzles he could solve. But at the same time . . ." "He'd be the youngest person there," said Emma. "That would be hard on anyone. Ty's only ever been with us." She touched Julian's wrist, lightly. "I'm glad I never went to the Academy. And the Scholomance is supposed to be much harder. And lonelier. Some of the students have wound up failing out with--well, Clary called it nervous breakdowns. I think it's a mundane term." Julian glanced down at the GPS and made a left turn, heading up toward the hills. "How often do you talk to Clary these days?" "About once a month." Clary had been calling her to check on her ever since they'd first met in Idris when Emma was twelve. It was one of the few things Emma didn't talk about much with Jules: The conversations with Clary felt like something that belonged just to her. "Is she still with Jace?" Emma laughed, feeling her tension drain. Clary and Jace were an institution, a legend. They belonged together. "Who'd break up with him?" "I might, if he was insufficiently attentive to my needs." "Well, she doesn't talk about her love life to me. But yeah, they're still together. If they broke up I might have to stop believing in love entirely." "I didn't know you did believe in love," said Jules, and paused, as if he realized what he'd said. "That came out wrong." Emma was indignant. "Just because I wasn't in love with Cameron--" "You weren't?" Traffic sped up; the car lurched forward. Julian struck the wheel with the heel of his palm. "Look, none of this is my business. Forget it. Forget I asked about Jace and Clary, or Simon and Isabelle--" "You didn't ask about Simon and Isabelle." "I didn't?" The side of his mouth quirked up. "Isabelle was my first crush, you know." "Of course I know." She threw the cap of her water bottle at him. "It was so obvious! You were staring at her at the party after Aline and Helen's wedding." He ducked the bottle cap. "I was not." "You so were," she said. "Do we need to talk about what we're looking for at Wells's place?" "I think we should play it by ear." " The quality of decision is like the well-timed swoop of a falcon, which enables it to strike and destroy its victim,' " said Emma. Julian looked at her incredulously. "Was that a quote from The Art of War?" "Maybe." Emma felt a happiness so intense it was almost sorrow: She was with Jules, they were joking, everything was the way it should be between parabatai. They had turned onto a series of residential streets: wide mansions twined with flowers rose above high hedges, cocooned behind sweeping driveways. "Are you being pithy? You know how I feel about pithiness in my car," Julian said. "It's not your car." "Either way, we're here," Jules said, pulling the car up to the curb and killing the engine. It was twilight now, not quite full dark, and Emma could see Wells's house, looking like it had in the satellite photos on the computer: the peaks of the roof just rising over the massive wall that surrounded it, covered with draped trellises of bougainvillea. Julian hit the button that raised the car windows. Emma looked over at him. "Just about dark. We worried about demonic activity?" He checked the glove compartment. "Nothing on the Sensor, but just to be sure, let's rune up." "Okay." Emma pushed up her sleeves, holding out her bare arms as Julian drew the pale-white, glimmering stele from his pocket. In the dark of the car, he leaned over, put the tip of the stele to her skin, and began to draw. Emma could feel his hair brush against her cheek and neck, and smell the faint scent of cloves that hung around him. She looked down, and as the black lines of runes spread across her skin, Emma remembered what Cristina had said about Jules: He has nice hands. She wondered if she'd ever really looked at them before. Were they nice? They were Julian's hands. They were hands that painted and fought; they had never failed him. In that way they were beautiful. "All right." Jules sat back, admiring his handiwork. Neat runes of precision and stealth, soundlessness and balance decorated her forearms. Emma drew down her sleeves and reached for her own stele. He shivered when the stele touched his skin. It must be cold. "Sorry," Emma whispered, bracing her hand on his shoulder. She could feel the edge of his collarbone under her thumb, the ribbed cotton of his T-shirt soft beneath her touch; she tightened her grip, her fingertips sliding against the bare skin at the edge of his collar. He drew in a sharp breath. She stopped. "Did I hurt you?" He shook his head. She couldn't see his face. "I'm fine." He reached behind himself and unlocked the driver's side door; a second later he was out of the car and shrugging on his jacket. Emma followed him. "But I didn't finish the Sure-Strike rune--" He had moved around to the trunk and opened it. He took out his runed crossbow and handed her Cortana and its sheath. "It's fine." He closed the trunk. He didn't seem bothered: same Julian, same calm smile. "Besides, I don't need it." He raised the crossbow casually and shot. The bolt flew through the air and plunged directly into the security camera over the gate. It blew apart with a whine of shattered metal and a wisp of smoke. "Show-off," Emma said, sheathing her sword. "I'm your parabatai. I have to show off occasionally. Otherwise no one would understand why you keep me around." An elderly couple appeared from a driveway near them, walking an Alsatian. Emma had to fight the urge to conceal Cortana, though she knew the weapon was glamoured. To the mundanes walking by, she and Julian would look like ordinary teenagers, long sleeves concealing their runes. They passed around the corner of the road and out of sight. "I keep you around because I need an audience for my witty remarks," she said as they reached the gates and Jules took out his stele to draw an Open rune. The gate popped open. Julian turned sideways to slide through the opening. "What witty remarks?" "Oh, you are going to pay for that," Emma muttered, following him. "I am incredibly witty." Julian chuckled. They had come to a lined pathway that led up to a large stucco house with enormous arched front doors, two huge panes of glass on either side. The lights lining the path were on, but the house was dark and silent. Emma sprang up the steps and peered in through one of the windows; she could see nothing but dark, smudged shapes. "No one home--oh!" She jumped back a step as something flung itself against the window: a lumpy, hair-covered ball. Slime slicked the glass. Emma was already crouching, about to pull a stiletto from her boot. "What is it?" She straightened. "A Raum demon? A--" "I think it's a minipoodle," said Julian, the corner of his mouth twitching. "And I don't think it's armed," he added as she glanced down to stare accusingly at what was, yes, definitely a small dog, its face pressed to the glass. "I'm almost positive, in fact." Emma hit him on the shoulder, then drew an Open rune on the door. There was the snapping click of the lock, and the door swung open. The dog left off licking the window and rushed out, barking. It darted around them in a circle, then lunged toward a fenced area at the far end of the yard. Julian darted off after the canine. Emma followed him through ankle-high grass. It was a nice garden, but nobody had taken real care of it. The plants were running wild, the flowered hedges overgrown. There was a pool, bordered by a waist-high ironwork fence, the gate hanging open. As Emma neared it, she could see that Julian was standing by the side of it, very still. It was the kind of pool that had LED lights in it, cycling through a rainbow of garish colors. Rows of pool chairs surrounded it, made of white metal with white cushions, dusted with fallen pine needles and blown jacaranda blossoms. Emma slowed as she reached the water. The dog was crouched by the pool ladder, not barking but whimpering. At first Emma thought she was looking at a shadow on the water; then she realized it was a body. A dead woman in a white bikini, floating on the surface of the pool. She was facedown, long black hair drifting around her head, arms dangling at her sides. The purple glow from the pool lights made her skin look bruised. "By the Angel, Jules . . . ," Emma breathed. It wasn't as if Emma hadn't seen dead bodies before. She'd seen plenty. Mundanes, Shadowhunters, murdered children in the Hall of Accords. Still, there was something plaintive about this body: the woman was tiny, so skinny you could see the lines of her spinal column. There was a splash of red against one of the pool chairs. Emma moved toward it, thinking it was blood, then realized it was a Valentino handbag made of bright red intaglio leather, slightly unzipped. A gold wallet had spilled out of it, and a pink phone. She glanced at the phone, then picked up the wallet and flicked through it. "Her name's Ava Leigh," she said. "She is--she was--twenty- two. Home address listed as here. Must have been his girlfriend." The dog whimpered again and lay down, his paws by the pool's edge. "He thinks she's drowning," Julian said. "He wants us to save her." "We couldn't have," Emma said softly. "Look at her phone. None of the calls have been answered in two days. I think she's been dead at least that long. We couldn't have done anything, Jules." She put the wallet back into the bag. She was reaching for the handles when she heard it: the click of a crossbow loading. Without looking or thinking, she threw herself at Jules, knocking him down. They hit the Spanish tile hard as a bolt whistled by them and vanished into the hedges. Julian kicked off against the ground and spun them over, rolling between two of the chairs. The phone Emma had been carrying flew out of her hand; she heard it hit the pool water with a splash and cursed silently to herself. Julian levered himself up, his hands gripping her shoulders; his eyes were wild, his body pressing hers into the ground. "Are you all right? Were you hit?" "I wasn't--I'm fine--" she gasped. The dog was huddled by the fence, howling, as another bolt whistled down and struck the corpse in the pool. Ava's body flipped over, baring her swollen, drowning-blackened face to the night sky. One of her arms floated up, as if she were raising it to protect herself. With a brief flash of horror, Emma saw that her right hand was missing; not just missing, but looked as if it had been hacked away, the skin around her wrist ragged and bloodless in the chlorinated water. Emma rolled out from under Julian and sprang to her feet. There was a figure standing on the roof of the house; she could see it only in outline. Tall, most likely masculine, dressed all in black, crossbow in hand. He raised it and took aim. Another bolt whistled by. Rage settled over Emma, cold and hard. How dare he shoot at them, how dare he shoot at Jules? She took a running jump and cleared the pool. She hurtled over the gate and ran at the house, leaping up to seize hold of the wrought-iron bars covering the lower windows. She levered herself higher, aware that Julian was shouting at her to get down, ignoring where the metal bit into her palms. She swung herself up, then up again, pushing off from the wall to flip herself onto the roof. The shingles crunched under her feet as she landed in a crouch. She looked up and caught a quick glimpse of the black-clad figure on the rooftop; he was backing away from her. His face was covered with a mask. Emma unsheathed Cortana. The blade glittered long and wicked in the dusk light. "What are you?" she demanded. "A vampire? Downworlder? Did you kill Ava Leigh?" She took a step forward; the strange figure backed away. He moved without alarm, very deliberately, which only angered Emma more. There was a dead girl in the pool below them, and Emma had arrived too late to save her. Her body was thrumming with the desire to do something to fix it. Emma narrowed her eyes. "Listen up. I'm a Shadowhunter. You can either surrender to the authority of the Clave, or I'll bury this blade in your heart. Your choice." He took a step toward her and for a moment Emma thought it had worked; he was actually giving up. Then he dived suddenly to the side. She lunged forward as he tumbled backward off the roof. He fell silently as a star. Emma cursed and ran to the edge of the roof. There was nothing. Silence, darkness; no sign of anything or anyone. She could see the glimmer of the pool. She moved around the side and saw Julian bending down, one of his hands on the dog's head. Trust Jules to try to comfort a puppy at a time like this. She braced herself and jumped--the image of the training room flashed behind her eyelids-- landing in the overgrown grass with only a slight sting. "Jules?" she said, coming closer. With a whimper the dog darted away, into the shadows. "He got away." "Yeah?" He straightened up, sounding preoccupied. "What do you think he was doing here?" "I don't know; I guessed vampire, but Nightshade keeps a pretty tight leash on them and--Jules?" She heard her voice skip upward an octave as she drew close enough to see that he had one hand pressed against his side. His black gear jacket was torn. "Jules? Are you okay?" He drew his hand away from his side. His palm was a welter of blood, black under the blue LED lighting of the pool. "I'm fine," he said. He rose to his feet and took a step toward her--and stumbled. "It's fine." Her heart flipped over. He was holding something in his bloody hand, and her insides went cold as she saw what it was. A short metal crossbow bolt, with a wide triangular head like an arrow, wet with blood. He must have pulled it from his side. You were never, never supposed to pull an arrow out of your skin: It did more damage coming out than going in. Julian knew that. "What did you do?" Emma whispered. Her mouth had gone dry. Blood was leaking steadily from the tear in his jacket. "It was burning," he said. "Not like a normal arrow. Emma--" He dropped to his knees. His expression was dazed, though he was clearly fighting it. "We need to get out of here," he said hoarsely. "The shooter might come back, alone or with more--" His voice choked off and he fell backward, sprawling in the grass. Emma moved faster than she ever had in her life, leaping across the pool, but she still wasn't there in time to catch him before he hit the ground. Clouds were gathering out over the ocean. The wind up on the roof was cool, the ocean acting like a giant air conditioner. Cristina could hear the roar and crash of the surf in the distance as she moved gingerly across the shingles. What was it about the Blackthorns and Emma that meant that ever since she'd come to Los Angeles she'd spent half her time on top of buildings? Mark was sitting near one of the copper gutters, his legs dangling over the side. The wind blew his fair hair around his face. His hands were long and white and bare, bracing him against the roof tiles behind him. He was holding one of the Institute's spare cell phones in his hand. It seemed incongruous--it was incongruous, the faerie boy with the long, tangled hair, the tapestry of stars behind him, and the phone in his hand. "I am so sorry, Helen," she heard him say, and the word echoed with such a depth of love and loneliness that she nearly turned away. Leaving silently didn't seem to be an option, though. Mark had heard her approach: He turned slightly, and gestured for Cristina to remain. She hovered uncertainly. It was Dru who had told her that she would find Mark on the roof, and the others had urged her to go up and see if he was all right. She had wondered if it was really her place, but Ty and Livvy had been absorbed in their translation job, and she'd sensed Dru was afraid of Mark's harsh words. And it wasn't as if Tavvy could be sent to fetch his brother down. So with some reluctance, Cristina had climbed the ladder to the roof. Now that she was here, though, she felt an aching sympathy for the boy perched at the roof's edge. The look on his face as he spoke to Helen--she couldn't imagine what it must be like for him, to know there was only one other person in his family quite like him, who shared his blood and heritage, and to know she was separated from him by a cruel and unbreakable Law. "And I, you, my sister," Mark said, and let the phone fall from his hand. It was an old-fashioned one, with a screen that flickered and went dark as the call disconnected. He slid it into a pocket and looked over at Cristina, the clouds casting shadows on his face. "If you have come to tell me I behaved ill, I already know it," he said. "That's not why I came," she said, moving closer to him but not sitting down. "But you agree," he said. "I behaved ill. I should not have spoken as I did to Julian, especially in front of the little ones." Cristina spoke carefully. "I don't know Julian well. But I do believe he was worried about you, and that's why he didn't want you to go with them." "I know that," Mark said, surprising her. "But do you know what it's like, to have your little brother worry about you as if you were the child?" He raked his fingers through his hair. "I thought, while I was gone, that Helen would be raising them. I never thought it would fall so much upon Julian's shoulders. I cannot tell if that is why he seems unknowable to me." Cristina thought of Julian, of his quiet competence and careful smiles. She remembered saying to Emma in a joking way that perhaps she would fall in love with Julian when she met him. And he had been much more beautiful than she'd thought, than Emma's blurry photos or vague descriptions had led her to believe. But though she liked him, she doubted she could love him. Too much of him was hidden for that. "A great deal of him is, I think, locked away," she said. "Have you seen the mural on the wall of his room? The one of the fairy tale? He is like that castle, I think, surrounded by thorns that he has grown to protect himself. But with time, you can cut those thorns away. I believe you will know your brother again." "I don't know how much time I have," he said. "If we do not solve their puzzle, the Wild Hunt will reclaim me." "Do you want them to?" Cristina asked softly. He said nothing, only glanced up at the sky. "Is that why you come up to the roof? Because from here you can see the Hunt if they go by?" Mark was silent for a long time. Then he said, "I imagine sometimes I can hear them. That I can hear the sound of their hooves against the clouds." She smiled. "I like the way you talk," she said. "It always sounds like poetry." "I speak the way I was taught by the Folk. So many years under their tutelage." He turned his hands over and placed them on his knees. The insides of his wrists were marked by odd, long scars. "How many years? Do you know?" He shrugged. "Time is not measured there as it is measured here. I could not say." "The years do not show on your face," she said quietly. "Sometimes you look as young as Julian and sometimes you look as the fey do--ageless." Now he looked at her sideways. "You don't think I look like a Shadowhunter?" "Do you want to?" "I want to look like my family," he said. "I cannot have the Blackthorn coloring, but I can look as much like Nephilim as possible. Julian was right-- if I wish to be part of the investigation, I cannot stand out." Cristina held back from telling Mark that there was no world in which he didn't stand out. "I can make you look like a Shadowhunter. If you come downstairs with me." He moved as noiselessly on the shingled roof as if he had the padded feet of a cat or as if he were wearing a Soundless rune. He stepped aside to let her lead the way downstairs. Even that was hushed, and when she brushed by him, his skin was cool as night air. She led the way to his room; he had left the lights off, so she illuminated her witchlight and set it down by the bed. "That chair," she said, pointing. "Bring it into the middle of the room and sit down. I'll be right back." He looked after her quizzically as she left the room. When she returned, carrying a damp comb, a towel, and a pair of scissors, he was seated in the chair, still with the same quizzical look. He didn't sit the way other teenage boys did, all sprawl and legs and arms. He sat the way kings did in drawings, upright but deliberate, as if the crown rested uneasily on his head. "Are you going to cut my throat?" he asked as she came toward him with the towel and the sharp scissors gleaming. "I'm going to cut your hair." She looped the towel around his neck and moved to stand behind him. His head tipped back to follow her movements as she took hold of his hair, running her fingers through it. It was the kind of hair that should have been curly but was weighed down by its own length and tangles. "Hold still," she said. "As my lady requests." She ran the comb through his hair and began to cut, careful to keep the length even. As she snipped away the weight of his silvery-blond mane, it sprang free in adorable curls like Julian's. They twined up against the back of his neck as if they wanted to be close to him. She remembered touching Diego's hair; it had been thick under her fingers, dark and textured. Mark's was fine, like corn silk. It fell like gleaming chaff, catching the witchlight. "Tell me about the faerie Court," she said. "I've always heard stories. My mother told me some, and my uncle." "We didn't see it much," he said, sounding very ordinary for a moment. "Gwyn and the Hunters aren't part of any Court. He keeps himself to himself. We joined the Courts and the gentry only on nights when there were revels. But those were--" He was silent for so long she wondered if he had fallen asleep or was perhaps simply deathly bored. "If you had been to one you would not forget it," he said. "Great sparkling caves or deserted copses in woodlands full of will-o'-the-wisp lights. There are still some parts of this world that are undiscovered by all but the Folk. There was dancing to wear your feet down, and there were beautiful boys and girls, and kisses were cheaper than wine but the wine was sweet and the fruit sweeter. And you would wake up in the morning and it would all be gone, but you could still hear the music in your head." "I think I would find it very frightening." She moved around to stand in front of him. He looked up at her with his curious two-colored eyes and she felt a tremor run through her hand, one she'd never felt when she cut Diego's hair or his brother Jaime's or any of her little cousins'. Of course, they'd been twelve when she'd clipped their hair, showing off what her mother had taught her, so maybe it was different when you were older. "Everything so glamorous and beautiful. How can a human compare?" He looked surprised. "But you would be lovely in the Court," he said. "They would turn leaves and flowers into jeweled crowns and sandals for you. You would sparkle and be admired. The Folk love nothing more than mortal beauty." "Because it fades," she said. "Yes," he admitted. "It is true that eventually you will become gray and bent and withered, and it is possible that hair will sprout from your chin. And there is also the issue of warts." He caught her glare. "But that time is a long time away," he added hastily. Cristina snorted. "I thought faeries were meant to be charming." She slid a hand under his chin to steady his head as she snipped away the last unruly strands. That was different too; his skin was as smooth as hers, no hint of stubble or roughness. His eyes narrowed, their color thinning to a gleam as she set the scissors aside and cleared her throat. "There," she said. "Would you like to see?" He straightened up in the chair. Cristina was bending down; their heads were on a level. "Lean closer," he said. "For years I have had no mirror; I have learned to make do. The eyes of another can be a mirror more effective than water. If you will look at me, I can see my reflection in yours." I have had to make do. Whose eyes had he been looking into, all those years? Cristina wondered as she leaned forward. She didn't know why she did it, exactly; maybe it was the way his eyes stayed fixed on hers, as if he couldn't imagine anything more fascinating than looking at her. His gaze didn't stray, either, not to the V of her shirt or her bare legs or even her hands, as she opened her eyes wide and looked directly back at him. "Beautiful," he said finally. "Do you mean your haircut?" she asked, trying for a teasing voice, but it wobbled in the middle. Maybe she shouldn't have offered to so intimately touch a complete stranger, even if he did seem harmless, even if she hadn't meant anything by it--had she? "No," he said on a soft exhale. She felt his breath warm on her neck, and his hand slid over hers. His was rough and calloused, scarred along the palm. Her heart gave an uneven leap in her chest just as Mark's bedroom door opened. She nearly jumped away from him as Ty and Livvy appeared in the doorway. Livvy was holding her phone, and her eyes were wide and worried. "It's Emma," she said, lifting the phone. "She texted nine-one-one. We need to go meet them right away." <|title|>Chapter 12: Stronger by Far <|startofchapter|>Emma made a screeching right turn off Fairfax into a parking lot down the street from Canter's Delicatessen. It belonged to a paint store that was closed now. She wheeled around to the back, where the lot was totally empty, and pulled the car to a jerking stop, making Jules swear. She looked back at him, unbuckling her belt. He was pale, clutching his side. She couldn't see much, given the darkness inside the car and the black clothes he was wearing, but blood was leaking through his fingers in slow pulses. Her stomach went cold. When he'd fallen at Wells's house, the first thing she'd done was sketch a healing rune on his skin. The second was get him to his feet and half drag him, the weapons, and Ava's purse into the backseat of the car. It was only after they'd driven a few blocks that he'd moaned and she'd looked back to realize he was still bleeding. She'd pulled over and put on another healing rune, and then another. That would work. It had to. There were very few kinds of wounds that healing runes couldn't help. Those made by demon poisons, and those bad enough to kill you. She'd felt her brain hitch and freeze up at the thought of either of those possibilities and had gone immediately for her phone. She'd texted Livvy the first location she could think of that was familiar--they all knew and loved Canter's--and then driven straight for it as fast as she could. She turned the car off with a jerk of her wrist and climbed into the backseat beside Jules. He was wedged into the corner, pale and sweating with obvious pain. "Okay," she said in a shaking voice. "You have to let me look at you." He was biting his lip. The streetlights from Fairfax illuminated the backseat, but not enough for Emma to see him well. He reached down for the hem of his shirt--and hesitated. She took her witchlight out of her pocket and lit it, filling the car with bright light. Jules's shirt was soaked with blood, and worse, the healing runes she'd drawn had vanished from his skin. They weren't working. "Jules," she said. "I have to call the Silent Brothers. They can help you. I have to." His eyes screwed shut with pain. "You can't," he said. "You know we can't call the Silent Brothers. They report directly to the Clave." "So we'll lie to them. Say it was a routine demon patrol. I'm calling," she said, and reached for her phone. "No!" Julian said, forcefully enough to stop her. "Silent Brothers know when you're lying! They have the Mortal Sword, Emma. They'll find out about the investigation. About Mark--" "You're not going to bleed to death in a car for Mark!" "No," he said, looking at her. His eyes were eerily blue-green, the only deep color in the witch-lit interior of the car. "You're going to fix me." Emma could feel it when Jules was hurt, like a splinter lodged under her skin. The physical pain didn't bother her--it was the terror, the only terror worse than her fear of the ocean. The fear of Jules being hurt, of him dying. She would give up anything, sustain any wound, to prevent that from happening. "Okay," she said. Her voice sounded dry and thin to her own ears. "Okay." She took a deep breath. "Hang on." She unzipped her jacket, threw it aside. Leaned over the console between the seats to put her witchlight on the floorboard. Then she reached for Jules. The next few seconds were a blur of Jules's blood on her hands and his harsh breathing as she pulled him partly upright, wedging him against the back door. He didn't make a sound as she moved him, but she could see him biting his lip and the blood on his mouth and chin, and she felt as if her bones were popping inside her skin. "Your jacket," she said through gritted teeth. "I have to cut it off." He nodded, letting his head fall back. She reached for Cortana. Despite the toughness of the material, the blade went through the gear jacket like a knife through paper. It fell away in pieces. Emma sliced down the front of his T-shirt and pulled it apart as if she were peeling open a fruit. Emma had seen blood before, often, but this felt different. It was Julian's, and there seemed to be a lot of it. It was smeared up and down his chest and rib cage; she could see where the arrow had gone in and where the skin had torn when he'd yanked it out. "Why did you pull the arrow out?" she demanded, pulling her sweater over her head. She had a tank top on under it. She patted his chest and side with the sweater, absorbing as much of the blood as she could. Jules's breath was coming in harsh pants. "Because when someone-- shoots you with an arrow--" he gasped, "your immediate response is not --Thanks for the arrow, I think I'll keep it for a while.'" "Good to know your sense of humor is intact." "Like I said, it was burning," Julian said. "Not like a normal wound. Like there was something on the arrowhead, acid or something." Emma had mopped away as much of the blood as she could. It was still welling from the puncture wound, running in thin streams down his stomach, gathering in the lines between his abdominal muscles. He had deep gaps above his hip bones, too, and his sides were hard and smooth to the touch. She took a deep breath. "You're too skinny," she said as brightly as she could. "Too much coffee, not enough pancakes." "I hope they put that on my tombstone." He gasped as she shifted forward, and she realized abruptly that she was squarely in Julian's lap, her knees around his hips. It was a bizarrely intimate position. "I-- Am I hurting you?" she asked. He swallowed visibly. "Try with the iratze again." "Fine," she said. "Grab the panic bar." "The what?" He opened his eyes and peered at her. "The plastic handle! Up there, above the window!" She pointed. "It's for grabbing on to when the car is going around curves." "Are you sure? I always thought it was for hanging things on," he said. "Like dry cleaning." "Julian, now is not the time to be pedantic. Grab the bar or I swear--" "All right!" He reached up, grabbed hold of it, and winced. "I'm ready." She nodded and set Cortana aside, reaching for her stele. Maybe her previous iratzes had been too fast, too sloppy. She'd always focused on the physical aspects of Shadowhunting, not the more mental and artistic ones: seeing through glamours, drawing runes. She set the tip of it to his shoulder and drew, carefully and slowly. She had to brace herself with her hand against his body. She tried to press as lightly as she could, but she could feel him tense under her fingers. The skin on his shoulder was smooth under her touch, and she wanted to get closer to him, put her hand over the wound on his side and heal it with the sheer force of her will-- Stop. She had finished the iratze. She sat back, her hand clamped around the stele. Julian straightened, the ragged remnants of his shirt hanging off his shoulders. He took a deep breath, glancing down at himself--and the iratze faded back into his skin, like black ice melting, spreading, being absorbed by the sea. He looked up at Emma. She could see her own reflection in his eyes: She looked wrecked, panicked, blood on her neck and her white tank top. "It hurts less," he whispered. The wound pulsed again; blood slid down the side of his rib cage, staining his leather belt and the waistband of his jeans. She put her hands on his bare skin, panic rising up inside her. His skin felt hot, too hot. Fever hot. "You're lying," she said. "Jules. Enough. I'm going to get help--" She moved to climb off him, but his hand shot out and clamped over her wrist. "Em," he said. "Emma, look at me." She looked. There was a little blood on his cheek and his hair hung in sweaty dark curls, but otherwise he just looked like Jules, like he always did. His left hand was pressed to his side, but his right came up, his fingers curling around the back of her neck. "Em," he said again, his eyes wide and dark blue in the dim light. "Did you kiss Mark the other night?" "What?" Emma stared. "Okay, you've definitely lost too much blood." He shifted minutely under her, keeping his hand where it was, gentle, tickling the fine hairs at the nape of her neck. "I saw the way you looked at him," he said. "Outside Poseidon's." "If you're worried about Mark's well-being, you shouldn't be. He's a mess. I know that. I don't think he needs to be more confused." "It wasn't that. I wasn't worried about Mark." He closed his eyes, as if he were counting silently inside his head. When he opened them again his pupils were wide black circles sketched onto his irises. "Maybe it should have been that. But it wasn't." Was he actually hallucinating? Emma thought in a panic. It wasn't like him to ramble like this, to make no sense at all. "I have to call the Silent Brothers," she said. "I don't care if you hate me forever or the investigation gets canceled--" "Please," he said, desperation clear in his voice. "Just--just one more try." "One more?" she echoed. "You'll fix this. You'll fix me, because we're parabatai. We're forever. I said that to you once, do you remember?" She nodded warily, hand on the phone. "And the strength of a rune your parabatai gives you is special. Whatever was on that arrowhead was meant to prevent healing magic, but Emma, you can do it. You can heal me. We're parabatai and that means the things we can do together are . .. extraordinary." There was blood on her jeans now, blood on her hands and her tank top, and he was still bleeding, the wound still open, an incongruous tear in the smooth skin all around it. "Try," Jules said in a dry whisper. "For me, try?" His voice went up on the question, and in it she heard the voice of the boy he had been once, remembered him smaller, skinnier, younger, standing upright before his siblings in the Great Hall in Alicante as his father advanced on him with his blade unsheathed. And she remembered what Julian had done then. Done to protect her, to protect all of them, because he always would do everything to protect them. She took her hand off the phone and gripped the stele, so tightly she felt it dig into her damp palm. "Look at me, Jules," she said, and he met her eyes with his. She placed the stele against his skin, and for a moment she held still, just breathing, breathing and remembering. Julian. A presence in her life for as long as she could recall, splashing water at each other in the ocean, digging in the sand together, him putting his hand over hers and them marveling at the difference in the shape and length of their fingers. Julian singing, terribly and off-key, while he drove, his fingers in her hair carefully freeing a trapped leaf, his hands catching her in the training room when she fell, and fell, and fell. The first time after their parabatai ceremony when she'd smashed her hand into a wall in rage at not being able to get a sword maneuver right, and he'd come up to her, taken her still-shaking body in his arms, and said, "Emma, Emma, don't hurt yourself. When you do, I feel it too." Something in her chest seemed to split and crack; she marveled that it wasn't audible. Energy raced along her veins and the stele moved in her hand, tracing the graceful outline of a healing rune across Julian's chest. She heard him gasp, his eyes flying open. His hand slid down her back and he pressed her against him, his teeth gritted. "Don't stop," he said. Emma couldn't have stopped if she'd wanted to. The stele seemed to be moving of its own accord; she was blinded with memories, a kaleidoscope of them, all of Julian. Sun in her eyes and Julian asleep on the beach in an old T-shirt and her not wanting to wake him, but he'd woken anyway when the sun went down and looked for her, immediately, not smiling till his eyes found her and he knew she was there. Falling asleep talking and waking up with their hands interlocked; they'd been children in the dark together once but now they were something else, something intimate and powerful, something Emma felt she was touching only the very edge of as she finished the rune and the stele fell from her fingers. "Oh," she said softly. The rune seemed lit from within by a soft glow. Julian was breathing hard, his stomach muscles rising and falling quickly, but the bleeding had stopped. The wound was closing, sealing itself up like an envelope. "Does it--does it hurt?" A smile was spreading across Julian's face. His hand was still on Emma's hip, gripping hard; he must have forgotten. "No," he said. His voice was hushed, soft, as if he were speaking inside a church. "You did it; you fixed it." He was looking at her like she was a rare miracle. "Emma, my God, Emma." Emma slumped against his shoulder as the tension drained out of her. She let her head rest there as his arms circled her body. "It's all right." He slid his hands down her back, clearly able to tell that she was shaking. "Everything's fine, I'm fine." "Jules," she whispered. His face was close to hers; she could see the light freckles across his cheekbones, under the smears of blood. Could feel his body against hers, vividly alive, the slamming of his heart in his rib cage, the heat of his skin, as if on fire from the power of the iratze. Her own heart was beating hard as her hands found his shoulders-- The front door of the car flew open. Light streamed in and Emma jerked away from Julian as Livvy clambered into the front seat. Livvy was holding a witchlight in her right hand, and its irregular beams illuminated the strange scene in the back of the Toyota: Emma in her bloody clothes; Julian, shirtless, jammed against the rear door. His hands fell away from Emma. "Is everything okay?" Livvy demanded. She was gripping her phone in one hand; she must have been waiting for more messages, Emma thought guiltily. "You texted nine-one-one--" "Everything's fine." Emma slid across the bench seat, away from Jules. He struggled upright, looking down dubiously at his shredded shirt. "Someone shot me with a crossbow bolt. The iratzes weren't working." "Well, you look fine now." Livvy eyed him, puzzled. "Bloody, but. . ." "A little parabatai magic," said Jules. "They weren't working, then they were. Sorry to scare you." "It looks like a mad science lab back here." There was relief on Livvy's face. "Who shot you, anyway?" "It's a long story," said Jules. "How did you get here? You didn't drive, did you?" Another head suddenly appeared beside Livvy's. Mark, his blond hair haloed in the witchlight. "I drove," he announced. "Upon a faerie steed." "What? But--but your faerie steed was shredded by demons!" "There are as many faerie steeds as there are riders," Mark said, looking pleased to be mysterious. "I did not say it was my faerie steed. Just a faerie steed." Mark disappeared from his side of the car. Before Emma could determine where he'd gone, the door behind Julian flew open. Mark leaned in, picked up his younger brother bodily, and lifted him out of the car. "What--?" Emma seized up her stele and scrambled out after them. There were two more figures standing on the asphalt of the parking lot-- Cristina and Ty, illuminated by the lights of a motorcycle. In fact, the whole motorcycle was glowing. It wasn't Mark's: It was black, with a painted design of horns on the chassis. "Jules?" Ty looked blanched and frightened as Julian pulled free of Mark's grip, yanking down the tattered remains of his shirt. Cristina hurried over to Emma as Julian turned to his younger brother. "Ty, everything's all right," he said. "I'm fine." "But you're covered in blood," said Ty. He wasn't looking directly at Julian, but Emma couldn't help wondering if he was remembering-- remembering the Dark War, and the blood and the dying all around him. "People have only so much blood they can lose before--" "I'll get some blood-replacement runes," said Julian. "Remember, Ty, we're Shadowhunters. We can handle a lot." "You're covered in blood too," Cristina murmured to Emma, shrugging off her own jacket. She slung it around Emma's shoulders, covering her bloody tank. She brushed her hands through Emma's hair, looking at her worriedly. "You sure you're not hurt?" "Julian's blood," Emma whispered, and Cristina made a murmuring noise and pulled Emma into a hug. She patted Emma's back and Emma hung on to her for dear life and decided there and then that if anyone ever tried to hurt Cristina she would grind them to a pulp and make amusing sand castles out of the remains. Livvy had moved to stand next to Ty and was holding his hand, murmuring to him that the blood was just blood, Julian wasn't hurt, everything was fine. Ty was breathing quickly, his hand opening and closing over Livvy's. "Here." Mark shrugged out of his blue T-shirt. He was wearing another T-shirt under it, this one gray. Julian blinked at him. "Proper vestments." He offered it to his brother. "Why are you wearing a T-shirt under your other T-shirt?" Livvy asked, temporarily diverted. "In case one of them is stolen," Mark said, as if this were entirely normal. Everyone paused to stare at him, even Julian, who had stripped off the rags of his shirt and covered himself with Mark's. "Thanks," Julian said, pulling Mark's shirt down over his belt. He tossed the scraps of his old shirt on top of a Dumpster. Mark seemed pleased--and, Emma realized belatedly, looked different. His hair was no longer hanging past his shoulders, but was cut short--or shorter, curling around his ears. It made him look both younger and more modern, less incongruous in his jeans and boots. More like a Shadowhunter. Mark looked back. She could still see the wind in his eyes, and the stars, and vast fields of empty clouds. Wildness and freedom. She wondered how deep his transformation back into a Shadowhunter ran. How deep it would ever run. She put a hand to her head. "I feel dizzy." "You need food." It was Livvy, grabbing her hand. "We all do. Nobody's eaten tonight, and Jules, you're forbidden from cooking. Let's go to Canter's, grab some dinner, and figure out what to do next." Everything inside Canter's was yellow. The walls were yellow, the booths were yellow, and most of the food was a shade of yellow. Not that Emma minded; she'd been coming to Canter's since she was four years old with her parents to eat their chocolate-chip pancakes and challah French toast. They piled into a corner booth and for a few minutes everything was absolutely ordinary: The waitress, a tall woman with gray hair, came by to dump a pile of laminated menus on their table; Livvy and Ty shared one, and Cristina asked Emma in a whisper what matzo brei was. They were scrunched together in the booth, and Emma found herself pressed up against Julian's side. He still felt hot against her, as if the iratze hadn't worked its way out of his system yet. Her skin still felt supersensitized too, as if she would jump or scream the moment someone touched her. She nearly did scream when the waitress returned to get their orders. She just stared until Julian ordered waffles and hot chocolate for her and handed the menu back hastily, looking at her worriedly. A-R-E Y-O-UA-L-L R-I-G-H-T?he scribbled on her back. She nodded, reaching for her plastic glass of ice water, just as Mark smiled at the waitress and ordered a plate of strawberries. The waitress, whose name tag said jean, blinked. "We don't have that on the menu." "But you do have strawberries on the menu," said Mark. "And I have seen plates being carried to and fro. So it stands to reason that the strawberries could be placed upon a plate and brought to me." Jean stared. "He has a point," said Ty. "Strawberries are offered as a topping on several dishes. Surely you could separate them out." "A plate of strawberries," Jean repeated. "I would take them in a bowl," said Mark with a winning gaze. "It has been many years since I have eaten freely at my choice, fair one, and a plate of strawberries is all that I desire." Jean looked dazed. "Right," she said, and disappeared with the menus. "Mark," said Julian. "Was that necessary?" "Was what necessary?" "You don't have to sound like a medieval faerie poem," Julian said. "You sound perfectly normal half the time. Maybe we should discuss keeping a low profile." "I cannot help it," Mark said with a small smile. "It's something about mundanes. . . ." "You need to act more like a normal human being," said Jules. "When we're out in public." "He doesn't need to act normal," said Ty sharply. "He bumped into a pay phone and said, 'Excuse me, miss,' on our way in," said Julian. "It's polite to apologize," said Mark with the same small smile. "Not to inanimate objects." "All right, enough," said Emma. She filled them in quickly on the events at Stanley Wells's house, including Ava's body and the mysterious figure on the roof. "So she was dead, but it was nothing like the other murders?" Livvy asked with a frown. "It seems unrelated--no markings, body dumped in a pool outside her own house, not at a ley line...." "What about the guy on the roof?" Cristina said. "Do you think he's the killer?" "Doubt it," said Emma. "He had a crossbow, and none of them have been killed with crossbows. But he hurt Jules, so when we track him down. I'm going to chop him up and feed him to my fish." "You don't have fish," Julian said. "Well, I'm going to buy some," said Emma. "I'm going to buy goldfish and feed them blood until they acquire a taste for human flesh." "That's disgusting," said Livvy. "Does this mean we still need to return to Wells's house and search it?" "As long as we check the roof first," said Emma. "We can't," Ty said. He held up his phone. "I was looking at the news. Someone called in the body. The mundane police are crawling all over the place. We won't be able to get anywhere near it for a few days at least." Emma blew out an exasperated breath. "Well," she said, "at least we have this," and she reached behind her to grab Ava's bag. She upended it on the table and the contents rattled out: wallet, makeup case, lip balm, mirror, hairbrush, and something flat, golden, and shiny. "No phone," Ty observed, a line of annoyance gathering between his brows. Emma didn't blame him. He could have done a lot with the phone. Too bad; it was at the bottom of Wells's pool. "What's this?" Livvy picked up the shining square. It was blank. "Not sure." Emma flicked through the wallet. Credit cards, driver's license, about eleven dollars in cash that made her feel a little queasy. Taking evidence was one thing; taking cash was another. Not that they could have returned it to Ava. "No photos or anything?" Julian asked, looking over her shoulder. "I don't think people keep photos in their wallets except in movies," Emma said. "Not since iPhones." "Speaking of movies." Livvy furrowed her brow, looking briefly--as she did sometimes--like Ty. "This thing looks like the Golden Ticket. You know, from Charlie and the Chocolate Factory." She waved the shining piece of laminated paper. "Let me see it." Cristina held out her hand. Livvy gave it to her as the waitress returned with their food: grilled cheese for Ty, a turkey sandwich for Cristina, a BLT for Julian, waffles for Emma and Livvy, and Mark's plate of strawberries. Cristina took out her stele and scribbled, humming, on a corner of the gold paper. Mark, looking beatific, took the dispenser of maple syrup off the table and upended it over his strawberries. He picked one up and put it in his mouth, stem and all. Julian stared at him. "What?" Mark said. "This is a perfectly normal thing to eat." "Sure it is," said Julian. "If you're a hummingbird." Mark raised an eyebrow. "Look," Cristina said, and pushed the golden paper toward the middle of the table. It was no longer blank. Instead it featured the shimmering photo of a building, and beside it words in block letters. THE FOLLOWERS OF THE GUARDIAN INVITE YOU TO THE LOTTERY THIS MONTH'S PERFORMANCE: AUGUST 11, 7P.M. THE MIDNIGHT THEATER This ticket admits one group. Semiformai attire. "The Lottery?" Julian echoed. "That's the name of a famous horror story. Did they make it into a play or something?" "It doesn't sound like a play," said Livvy. "It sounds creepy." "It could be a creepy play," said Ty. "It was a creepy story." Julian picked up the ticket. There was paint under his fingernails, shimmering small crescents of blue. "And the creepiest thing about this is that this theater is shut down. I know the place; it's up past Highland Park. It's been been shut down for years." "Sixteen years," said Ty. He had mastered the art of using his phone one-handed and was squinting at the screen. "Shut down after a fire and never rebuilt." "I've driven past it," Emma said. "It's all boarded up, isn't it?" Julian nodded. "I painted it once. I was painting abandoned buildings, places like the Murphy Ranch, closed businesses. I remember that one. It had a ghostly feel." "It's interesting," Mark said. "But does it have anything to do with the investigation? The murders?" Everyone looked mildly surprised that Mark had asked something so practical. "I think it might," Emma said. "I was at the Shadow Market last week--" "I wish you'd quit going to the Shadow Market," Julian muttered. "It's dangerous there--" "Oh, NO," Emma said. "Not danger, Mr. l-Just-Almost-Bled-Out-in-My- Car." Julian sighed and reached for his soda. "I can't believe I ever complained about 'Jules' as a nickname." "Maybe we should talk about the Shadow Market," said Cristina hastily. "It is where Emma first heard information about the murders." "Well, you can imagine how happy the Marketers were to see me and Cameron--" "You went with Cameron?" Julian said. Livvy held up a hand. "In Emma's defense, Cameron's annoying, but he's hot." Julian gave her a look. "I mean, if you like guys who look like a redheaded Captain America, which I ... don't?" "Captain America is definitely the most handsome Avenger," said Cristina. "But I like the Hulk. I would like to heal his broken heart." "We're Nephilim," said Julian. "We're not even supposed to know about the Avengers. Besides," he added, "Iron Man is obviously the best-looking." "Can I finish my story?" Emma demanded. "I was at the Market with Cameron, and I remember now, I saw a booth that had a placard up that said something like 'Sign Up for the Lottery.' So I think it's something supernatural, not experimental theater or whatever." "I have no idea who the Avengers are," observed Mark, who had finished his strawberries and was eating sugar out of a packet. Ty looked gratified--he had no time for superheroes. "But I agree with you. This is a lead. Someone murdered Stanley Wells, and now his girlfriend is dead too. Even if it is in a completely different way." "I think we can all agree it can't be a coincidence," said Emma. "Them both dying." "I don't think it is," said Mark. "But she could have been killed because she knew something, not because she was a sacrifice like he was or part of the same ritual. Death breeds death, after all." He looked thoughtful. "She was invited to this Lottery performance. She thought it was important enough to carry the ticket around with her. I think it could be a thread to follow." "Or it could be nothing," said Jules. "We don't have much else to investigate," pointed out Emma. "We do, actually," said Jules. "We've still got your photos from the inside of the cave at the convergence. And now we have whoever was at Wells's house and shot at me--we've still got my gear jacket with whatever poison he used on it. Maybe Malcolm could look into that, find out if it's associated with a particular demon or warlock who might sell it." "Great," Emma said. "We can do both. August eleventh is tomorrow night." She frowned at the ticket. "Oh God, semiformal. Fancy. I don't think I have any dresses that fancy, and Mark will need a suit...." "Mark doesn't have to go," Julian said quickly. "He can stay at the Institute." "No," Mark said. His voice was calm, but his eyes sparked. "I will not. I was brought here to help you investigate these murders, and that is what I will do." Julian sat back. "Not if we can't rune you. It's not safe." "I have protected myself without runes for many years. If I do not go with you, then those in Faerie who sent me here will learn of it, and they will not be pleased. The punishment will be severe." "Oh, let him go," Livvy said, looking anxious. "Jules--" Julian touched the edge of his shirt, the gesture half-unconscious. "How will they know to punish you," he said, "if you don't tell them?" "You think it is easy to lie when you have grown up around people who do not lie?" Mark said, cheeks flushing with anger. "And do you think they do not have their own ways to ferret out lies when humans tell them?" "You're human," Julian said hotly. "You're not one of them, you don't act like one of them--" Mark flung himself up from the table and stalked across the room. "What's he doing?" Emma stared. Mark had made his way to a neighboring table of pierced and tattooed mundane girls who looked like they'd just come from a nightclub and were giggling madly as he talked to them. "By the Angel." Julian threw down some money on the table and scrambled to his feet, ducking out of the booth. Emma scraped everything back into Ava's handbag and hastily followed Julian, the others at her heels. "Might I make free with your lettuce, my lady?" Mark was saying to a girl with bright pink hair and a pile of salad on her plate. She pushed it toward him, grinning. "You're gorgeous," she said. "Even with the fake elf ears. Forget the lettuce, you can make free with my--" "All right, you've made your point, enough." Julian took Mark--who was cheerfully eating a baby carrot--by the wrist and tried to draw him toward the door. "Sorry, ladies," he said as a chorus of protests rose. The girl with pink hair stood up. "If he wants to stay, he can stay," she said. "Who are you, anyway?" "I'm his brother," Julian said. "Boy, do you two not look alike," she said in a way that made Emma bristle. She'd called Mark gorgeous--Julian was just as gorgeous, just in a quieter, less flashy way. He didn't have Mark's sharp cheekbones or faerie charm, but he had luminous eyes and a beautiful mouth that-- She goggled at herself. What was wrong with her? What was wrong with her thoughts? Livvy made an exasperated noise, stomped forward, and seized Mark by the back of the shirt. "You don't want him," she said to the pink-haired girl. "He has syphilis." The girl stared. "Syphilis?" "Five percent of people in America have it," said Ty helpfully. "I do not have syphilis," Mark said angrily. "There are no sexually transmitted diseases in Faerieland!" The mundane girls fell instantly silent. "Sorry," Jules said. "You know how syphilis is. Attacks the brain." The table of girls were open-mouthed as Livvy hauled Mark by his shirt through the restaurant and into the parking lot, the rest of them following. The moment they were outside and the door had closed behind them, Emma burst out laughing. She leaned against Cristina, who was also giggling, as Livvy let go of Mark and smoothed down her skirt, looking unruffled. "Sorry," Emma said. "It's just-- syphilis?" "Ty was reading about it today," said Livvy. Julian, who had been trying to hide a smile, looked over at Ty. "Why have you been reading about syphilis?" Ty shrugged. "Research." "Was that really necessary?" Mark demanded. "I was merely making conversation. I thought I would practice my gentry speech on them." "You were being ridiculous on purpose," said Emma. "I'm beginning to get the feeling you think faeries sound silly." "I did at first," said Mark candidly. "Then you get used to it. Now . . . Now I don't know what to think." He sounded a little lost. "We're not supposed to talk to mundanes," Julian said, his smile vanishing. "It's--it's basic, Mark. One of the first things we learn. Especially not about things like Faerieland." "I spoke to those mundanes, and no one exploded or caught on fire," said Mark. "No doom came down upon us. They thought I was wearing a costume." He ducked his head, then looked up at Julian. "You are right that I will stand out, but people see what they want to see." "Maybe the rules about not going out in battle without runes are stupid rules," said Ty, and Emma thought of the way Mark had spoken to Ty in the training room. Now we both have hurt hands. "Maybe a lot of the rules are stupid rules," said Julian, and there was an edge of bitterness to his voice that surprised Emma. "Maybe we just have to follow them anyway. Maybe that's what makes us Shadowhunters." Livvy looked puzzled. "Having to follow stupid rules makes us Shadowhunters?" "Not the rules," said Julian. "The penalty for breaking them." "The penalty for breaking the rules of Faerie are just as severe, if not more so," said Mark. "You must trust me on this, Julian. If they think I am not part of the investigation, they will punish not just me, but also all of you. They do not require me to tell them. They will know." His eyes burned. "You understand me?" "I understand, Mark. And I trust you." Julian smiled at his brother, then, unexpectedly, that smile that was all the more bright for its unpredictability. "Anyway. Everyone into the car, okay? We're heading back." "I must return with the steed," said Mark. "I cannot leave him--it-- here. If it were lost, the Wild Hunt would take it amiss." "Fine," said Julian. "Take it back alone. Ty and Livvy aren't getting onto it again, understood? Too dangerous." Livvy looked disappointed, Ty relieved. Mark nodded almost imperceptibly. "I'll go with Mark," Cristina said suddenly. Emma saw Mark's face light up in a way that surprised her. "I shall fetch the steed," Mark said. "I find I desire to fly." "And go the speed limit!" Julian yelled as Mark disappeared around the side of the building. "It's the sky, Julian," said Emma. "There isn't really a speed limit." "I know," he said, and smiled. It was the smile Emma loved, the one she felt like was just for her, the one that said that although life often forced him to be serious, Julian wasn't actually serious by nature. She wanted to hug him suddenly or touch his shoulder, so badly that she forced her hands down and clasped them together. She looked down at her fingers; for some reason she had intertwined them, as if they made a cage that would hold her feelings in. The moon was high and full in the sky when Mark brought the motorcycle to a gentle stop in the sand behind the Institute. The trip into the city had been all panic, Livvy gripping on to Cristina's belt with small, worried hands, Ty telling Mark not to go too fast, the freeway disappearing under their feet. They'd nearly crashed into the Dumpster in the parking lot. The way back was quiet, Cristina holding Mark lightly around the waist, thinking about how close they seemed to be flying to the clouds. The city below them was an interlocking pattern of colored lights. Cristina had always hated amusement park rides and airplane flights, but this was like neither of those: She felt a part of the air, buoyed up by it like a small craft on the water. Mark slid off the cycle and held out his hand to help her down after him. She took it, her eyes still full of the sight of the Santa Monica Pier below them, the bright lights of the turning Ferris wheel. She'd never felt so far away from her mother, from the Institute in Mexico City, from the Rosaleses. She liked it. "My lady," he said as her feet touched the sand. She felt her lips curl up. "That seems so formal." "The Courts are nothing if not formal," he agreed. "Thank you for coming back with me. You didn't have to." "You seemed like maybe you didn't want to be alone," Cristina said. The soft wind was blowing off the desert, moving the sand, lifting his newly cut hair away from his face. Short now, it looked like a halo, so pale blond as to be almost silver. "You see a great deal." His eyes studied her face. She wondered what he had looked like when both of his eyes had been Blackthorn eyes, blue-green as the sea. She wondered if the strangeness of his eyes, now, added to his beauty. "When no one you know tells the truth, you learn to see under the surface," she said, and thought of her mother and the yellow petals of roses. "Yes," he said. "But then, I come from a place where everyone tells the truth, no matter how dreadful." "Is that something you miss about Faerie?" Cristina asked. "That there were no lies there?" "How did you know I miss Faerie?" "Your heart is not settled here," said Cristina. "And I think it is more than just familiarity that draws you back. You spoke of feeling free there--but then you also said that they cut runes into your back. I am trying to understand how that can be something you could miss." "That was the Unseelie Court, not the Hunt," said Mark. "And I cannot speak of what I miss. I cannot speak of the Hunt, not truly. It is forbidden." "That is terrible. How can you choose if you cannot speak of your choice?" "The world is terrible," said Mark tonelessly. "And some are drawn down into it and drown there, and some rise above and carry others with them. But not very many. Not everyone can be Julian." "Julian?" Cristina was startled. "But I thought perhaps you didn't even like him. I thought--" "You thought?" He arched his silvery eyebrows. "I thought you didn't like any of us," she said sheepishly. It seemed a foolish thing to say, but his face softened. He reached to take her hand, brushing his own fingers along her palm. A shiver raced up her arm--the touch of his hand was like an electric current. "I like you," he said. "Cristina Mendoza Rosales. I like you very much." He leaned down toward her. His eyes filled her vision, blue and gold-- "Mark Blackthorn." The voice that spoke his name was sharp, clipped. Both Cristina and Mark whirled around. The tall faerie warrior who had brought Mark to the Institute stood in front of them, as if he had simply evolved out of the black-and-white sand and sky. He looked black and white himself, his hair the color of ink, curling darkly against his temples. His silver eye glowed in the moonlight; his black eye looked pupil-less. He wore a gray tunic and trousers, and daggers at his belt. He was as inhumanly lovely as a statue. "Kieran," said Mark, a sort of half-shocked exhale. "But I--" "Should have expected me." Kieran stalked forward. "You asked to borrow my steed; I lent it. The longer I go without it, the more chary Gwyn will grow. Did you hope to raise his suspicions?" "I intended to return it," Mark said, his voice low. "Did you?" Kieran crossed his arms over his chest. "Cristina, go inside," said Mark. He had dropped his hand and was looking at Kieran, not at her, his expression fixed. "Mark--" "Please," he said. "This is--if you respect my privacy, please, go inside." She hesitated. But his expression was clear. He knew what he was asking. She turned and went in through the Institute's back door, letting it bang loudly shut behind her. The stairs loomed up in front of her, but she couldn't climb them. She barely knew Mark Blackthorn. But as she went to put her foot on the first step, she thought of the scars on his back. Of the way he had curled into a ball in his bedroom that first day, the way he had accused Julian of being a dream or a nightmare sent to haunt him by the Wild Hunt. She didn't believe in the Cold Peace, had never believed in it, but Mark's pain had torn away at her beliefs. Perhaps the faeries truly were that cruel. Perhaps there really was no good in them, no honor. And if that was the case, how could she leave Mark out there, alone, with one of them? She whirled around and pushed the door open--and froze. It took a moment for her gaze to find them, but when it did, Mark and Kieran seemed to leap out at her like the images from a lighted screen. They stood in a patch of moonlight at the edge of the lot, Mark's back against one of the scrub oak trees. Kieran was leaning against him, pinning him to the tree, and they were kissing. Cristina hesitated a moment, blood rising into her face, but it was clear Mark wasn't being touched against his will. Mark's hands were tangled in Kieran's hair, and he was kissing him as fiercely as if he were starving. Their bodies were pressed together tightly: nevertheless, Kieran clutched at Mark's waist, his hands moving restlessly, desperately, as if he could pull Mark closer still. They slid up, pushing Mark's jacket off his shoulders, stroking the skin at the edge of his collar. He made a low keening sound, like a cry of grief, deep in his throat, and broke away. He was staring at Mark, his gaze as hungry as it was hopeless. Never had a faerie looked so human to Cristina as Kieran did then. Mark looked back at him, eyes wide, shining in the moonlight. A shared look of love and longing and terrible sadness. It was too much. It had already been too much: Cristina knew she shouldn't have been watching them but she hadn't been able to stop, mingled shock and fascination rooting her to the spot. And desire. There was desire, too. Whether for Mark, or for both of them, or just for the idea of wanting someone so much, she wasn't sure. She moved back, her heart pounding, about to pull the door shut after her-- And the whole parking lot lit up like a stadium as a car rounded the corner and turned into it. Music blared out the windows; Cristina could hear Emma's and Julian's voices. Her gaze darted back toward Mark and Kieran, but Kieran had vanished, a shadow into shadows. Mark was bending down to pick up his jacket as Emma and the others piled out of the car. Cristina pulled the door shut. Through it she heard Emma ask Mark where she was, and Mark say that she had gone inside. He sounded casual, calm, as if nothing had happened. But everything had happened. She had wondered, when he'd looked in her eyes and said that he'd had to make do without mirrors in the Wild Hunt, whose eyes he'd been looking into for all those years. Now she knew. The Wild Hunt, Some Years Ago Mark Blackthorn came to the Wild Hunt when he was sixteen years old, and not because he wanted to. He remembered only darkness after he had been taken from the Institute that was his home, before he woke in underground caverns, amid lichen and dripping moss. A massive man with eyes of two different colors was standing over him, carrying a horned helmet. Mark recognized him, of course. You couldn't be a Shadowhunter and not know about the Wild Hunt. You couldn't be half-faerie and not have read about Gwyn the Hunter, who had led the hunt for centuries. He wore a long blade of hammered metal at his waist, blackened and twisted as if it had been through many fires. "Mark Blackthorn, " he said, "you are with the Hunt now, for your family is dead. We are your blood kin now. " And drawing the sword, he sliced across his palm until he drew blood, and dripped it into water for Mark to drink. In the years to come Mark would see others come to the Hunt, and Gwyn say the same thing to them, and watch them drink his blood. And he would watch their eyes change, splintering into two different colors as if to symbolize the division of their souls. Gwyn believed a new recruit had to be broken down to be built back up again as a Hunter, someone who could ride through the night without sleep, someone who could suffer hunger that was close to starvation and endure pain that would break a mundane. And he believed their loyalty must be unswerving. They could choose no one over the Hunt. Mark gave his loyalty to Gwyn, and his service, but he did not make friends among the Wild Hunt. They were not Shadowhunters, and he was a Shadowhunter. The others were all of the faerie Courts, pressed into service with the Hunt as punishment. They did not like the fact that he was Nephilim, and he felt their scorn and scorned them in turn. He rode through the nights alone, on a silver mare given to him by Gwyn. Gwyn seemed, perversely, to like him, perhaps to spite the others of the Hunt. He taught Mark to navigate by the stars and to listen for the sounds of a battle that might echo through hundreds, even thousands of miles: cries of anger and the shouts of the dying. They would ride to the field of battle and, invisible to mundane eyes, divest the dead bodies of precious things. Most of them were paid in tribute to the Seelie and Unseelie Courts, but some Gwyn kept for himself. Mark slept alone, every night, on the cold ground, wrapped in a blanket, a stone for his pillow. When it was cold, he shivered, and dreamed of runes that would warm him, of the hot blaze of seraph blades. In his pocket he kept the witch light rune-stone dace Herondale had given him, though he dared not light it except when he was alone. Each night as he fell asleep he recited the names of his sisters and brothers, in order of age. Each word was weighted like an anchor, cleaving him to the earth. Keeping him alive. Helen. Julian. Tiberius. Livia. Drusilla. Octavian. The days blurred into months. Time was not like it was in the mundane world. Mark had given up counting days--there was no way to mark them down, and Gwyn hated such things. Therefore he had no idea how long he had been with the Hunt when Kieran came. He had known they were getting a new Hunter; gossip spread quickly, and besides, Gwyn always Turned the newest of them in the same place: a cavern near to the entrance of the Unseelie Court, where the walls were thickly carpeted in emerald lichen and a small natural pool welled among the rocks. They found him there when they arrived, left for Gwyn to discover. At first all Mark could see was the outline of a boy with a tangle of black hair and a slender body, the chains binding his wrists and ankles pulling it into a strange torsion. He appeared to be all bones and angles. "Prince Kieran, " said Gwyn as he approached the boy, and a murmur ran through the Hunt. If the newcomer was a prince, he was more exalted than faerie gentry. And what could a prince have done to get himself so brutally exiled from the Court, cut off from family and name, kith and kin ? The boy lifted his head when Gwyn came to him, revealing his face. He was certainly gentry. He had their strange, luminous, almost inhumanly beautiful features, high-cheekboned and black-eyed. His hair had a sheen to it of blue and green among the black, the color of the ocean at night. He turned his face away when Gwyn tried to press the water on him, mixed with blood, but Gwyn forced it down his throat. Mark watched in fascination as Kieran's right eye turned from black to silver, and the chains fell away from lacerated wrists and ankles. "You are of the Hunt now," said Gwyn with a grimness that was unusual. "Rise and join us. " Kieran was a strange addition to the group. Though his rank as prince had been stripped from him when he was exiled to the Hunt, he still carried an indefinable air of arrogance and royalty with him, which did not sit well with the others. They mocked him, called him "princeling, " and would have done worse if Gwyn had not stayed their hands. It seemed there was someone in the Courts looking out for Kieran, despite his exile. Mark could not help but watch him. Something about Kieran fascinated him. He soon learned that the prince's hair changed color depending on his mood, from night black (when he was despairing) to pale blue (when he laughed, which was not often) --always colors of the sea. It was thick and curling and sometimes Mark wanted to touch it and see if it felt like hair or something else, shot silk, a fabric that changed color in the light. Kieran rode his horse--given to him by Gwyn; it was the fiercest Mark had ever seen, black and skeletal, a mount of the dead--as if he were born to it. Like Mark, he seemed determined to ride out the pain of exile and friendlessness alone, rarely speaking to the others of the Hunt, rarely even glancing at them. Only he looked at Mark sometimes, when the others called him Nephilim and Shadow-spawn and angel-boy and other names much worse. A day came when news spread that the Clave had hanged a group of faeries in Idris for treason. The faeries had had friends among the Hunt, and in a rage, Mark's fellows demanded that Mark kneel and say the words "I am not a Shadowhunter. " When he would not, they stripped Mark's shirt from his body and whipped him bloody. They left him crumpled under a tree in a snowy field, his blood turning the white flakes to red. When he woke there was firelight and warmth, and he was lying in someone's lap. Only groggily did he come to enough consciousness to realize that it was Kieran's. Kieran lifted him in his arms and gave him water and folded a blanket around his shoulders. His touch was gentle and light. "I believe among your people, " he said, "there are healing runes. " "Yes, " Mark said in a croak, moving only very slightly. Pain from his lacerated skin jolted through him. "They're called iratzes. One would mend these injuries for me. But they cannot be made without a stele, and my stele was broken years past. " "That is a pity, " said Kieran. "I believe your skin will be scarred forevermore. " "What care I?" said Mark, listless. "It is not as if it matters much, here in the Hunt, whether I am beautiful. " Kieran gave a secret half smile at that and touched Mark's hair lightly. Mark closed his eyes. It had been years since anyone had touched him, and the feeling sent shivers down through his body despite the pain of the cuts. After that, when they rode out, they rode out together. Kieran made of the Hunt an adventure for the two of them. He showed Mark wonders that only the Fair Folk knew of: sheets of ice lying silent and silver under moonlight, and hidden glens, blooming with night flowers. They rode among the spray of waterfalls and amid the towers of clouds. And Mark was, if not happy, no longer tortured by loneliness. At night they slept curled together under Kieran's blanket, made of a thickly woven material that was always warm. One night they stopped on a hilltop, in a place green and north. There was a cairn of stones crowning the hill, something built by mundanes a thousand years back. Mark leaned against the side of it and looked out over the green country, silvering in the dark, to the distant sea. The sea, everywhere, he thought, was the same, the same sea that broke against the shores in the place he still thought of as home. "Your scars have healed, " Kieran said, touching one of his light, slender fingers to a torn place in Mark's shirt where the skin showed through. "But they are still ugly, " Mark said. He was waiting for the first stars to come out, so he could name his family on them. He didn't see Kieran draw closer until the other boy was opposite him, his face elegantly shadowed in the twilight. "Nothing about you is ugly, " Kieran said. He leaned in to kiss Mark and Mark, after a moment of surprise, turned his face up and met Kieran's tips with his. it was the first time he had ever been kissed, and he had never thought it would be by a boy, but he was glad it was Kieran. He had never expected a kiss to be so agonizing and pleasurable at the same time. He had wanted to touch Kieran's hair for months, and now he did, burying his fingers in the strands, which were turning from black to blue edged with gold. They felt like licks of flame against his skin. They curled up under the blanket together that night, but they got little sleep, and Mark forgot to number the names of his family on the stars--for that night and most nights after. Soon Mark grew used to waking with his arm thrown over Kieran's body or his hand tangled in blue-white curls. He learned that kisses and touches and professions of love could make you forget, and that the more he was with Kieran, the more he wanted to be with him and not with anyone else. He lived for the time they were alone together, usually at night, whispering so no one could overhear them. "Tell me of the Unseelie Court, " Mark would say, and Kieran would murmur tales of the dark Court and the pale King, his father, who ruled over it. And "Tell me of the Nephilim, " Kieran would say, and Mark would speak of the Angel, and of the Dark War and what had happened to him, and of his brothers and sisters. "You don't hate me?" Mark said, lying in Kieran's arms, somewhere in a high Alpine meadow. His unkempt blond hair brushed against Kieran's shoulder as he turned his head. "For being Nephilim? The others do." "You need not be Nephilim anymore. You could choose to be of the Wild Hunt. Embrace your faerie nature. " Mark shook his head. "When they beat me for saying I was a Shadowhunter, it only made me more sure. I know what I am even if I cannot say it. " "You can say it only to me," said Kieran, his long fingers ghosting across Mark's cheek. "Here in this space between us. It is safe. " So Mark pressed up against his lover and only friend and whispered into the space between them, where his cold body pressed against Kieran's warm one. "I am a Shadowhunter. I am a Shadowhunter. I am a Shadowhunter. " <|title|>Chapter 13: With No Other Thought <|startofchapter|>Emma stood in front of the mirror in her bathroom, slowly peeling off her tank top. Twenty minutes with a bottle of bleach had removed the blood from the inside of the Toyota. That had been fine. She was used to bloodstains. But there was something more visceral about this, about Julian's blood dried on her skin, red-brown patches over her ribs and shoulder. As she unzipped her jeans and wriggled out of them, she could see splatters of dried blood along the waistband, the telltale pinpricks of it up and down the seams. She balled up the jeans and top and threw them in the trash. In the shower, the water scalding hot, she scrubbed away the blood and dirt and sweat. She watched the water run pinkish down the drain. She couldn't count how many times that had happened, how often she'd made herself bleed during training and battles. Scars slashed across her midriff and shoulders, along her arms, at the backs of her knees. But Julian's blood was different. When she saw it she thought of him, shot and crumpling, the way his blood had run like water through her fingers. It was the first time in years that she'd actually thought he might die, that she might lose him. She knew what people said about parabatai, knew that it was meant to be a loss as profound as that of a spouse or a sibling. Emma had lost her parents; she had thought she knew what loss was, was prepared for it. But nothing had prepared her for the feeling that the idea of losing Jules wrenched out of her: that the sky would go dark forever, that there would never be solid ground again. Even stranger had been the feeling that had rushed through her when she realized he was going to be all right. She had become aware of his physical presence in a way that almost hurt. She had wanted to put her arms around him, to grab on to him with her fingers digging in as if she could press them together hard enough to seal their skin, interlock their bones. She knew it didn't make sense, but she couldn't explain it another way. She just knew it was intense, and painful, and a thing she hadn't felt about Julian before. And that it scared her. The water had gone cold. She spun the shower off with a savage twist of her wrist, stepped out, and toweled her hair dry. She found a clean camisole and boxer shorts folded on her laundry basket and, dressed, stepped out into her bedroom. Cristina was sitting on her bed. "Whoa," Emma said. "I didn't know you were in here! I could have come out of the bathroom stark naked or something." "I doubt you have anything I don't have." Cristina looked distracted; her dark hair was down in braids, and she was interweaving her fingers the way she did when she was preoccupied. "Is everything all right?" Emma asked, sitting down on the edge of the bed. "You look--bothered." "Do you think Mark had friends in the Wild Hunt?" Cristina asked abruptly. "No." Emma was taken aback. "At least he's never mentioned any. And you'd think he would have, if there was someone he missed." She frowned. "Why?" Cristina hesitated. "Well, he borrowed that motorcycle tonight from someone. I just hope he hasn't gotten himself in any trouble." "Mark's clever," said Emma. "I doubt he bartered his soul for the temporary use of a motorbike or anything." "I'm sure you're right," Cristina murmured, and glanced toward Emma's wardrobe. "Can I borrow a dress?" "Right now?" Emma said. "Have you got a midnight date?" "No, for tomorrow night." Cristina got to her feet to peer into the wardrobe. Several badly folded rayon dresses fell out. "It is meant to be formal. I didn't bring any formal dresses with me from home." "You won't fit into anything of mine," Emma said as Cristina held up a black dress with a design of rockets and frowned at it. "We're different shapes. You're way more--boom-chicka-boom." "Is that even English?" Cristina frowned, tossing the rocket dress onto a shelf and shutting the wardrobe door. "I don't think that's English." Emma smiled at her. "I'll take you shopping tomorrow," she said. "Deal?" "That seems so normal." Cristina smoothed her braids back. "After tonight. . ." "Cameron called me," Emma said. "I know," Cristina said. "I was in the kitchen. Why are you telling me now? Are you back together?" Emma rocked backward on the bed. "No! He was warning me. He told me that there were people who didn't want me investigating these murders." "Emma." Cristina sighed. "And you didn't say anything to us?" "He said it about me," Emma said. "I figured any danger would be my danger." "But Julian got hurt," said Cristina, knowing what Emma was going to say before she said it. "So you are worrying it was your fault." Emma picked at the fringe on the edge of her blanket. "Isn't it? I mean, Cameron warned me, he said he heard it at the Shadow Market, so I don't know if it was mundanes talking or faeries or warlocks or what, but the fact is, he warned me and I ignored it." "It was nof your fault. We already know there's someone, a necromancer most likely, killing and sacrificing mundanes and Downworlders. We already know he has an army of Mantid demons at his beck and call. It isn't as if Julian wasn't expecting and prepared for danger." "He almost died on me," Emma said. "There was so much blood." "And you fixed him. He's fine. You saved his life." Cristina waved a hand-- her nails were perfect, shining ovals, where Emma's were ragged from sparring and training. "Why are you second-guessing yourself, Emma? Is it because Julian was hurt and that frightened you? Because you have taken risks since the first time I ever met you. It is part of who you are. And Julian knows that. He doesn't just know it, he likes it." "Does he? He's always telling me not to risk myself--" "He has to," said Cristina. "You are the two halves of a whole. You must be different, like light and shadow--he brings you caution to temper your recklessness, and you bring him recklessness to temper his caution. Without each other you would not function as well as you do. That is what parabatai means." She tugged lightly on the ends of Emma's wet hair. "I do not think it is Cameron that is bothering you. That is just an excuse to berate yourself. I think it is that Julian was hurt." "Maybe," Emma said in a tight voice. "Are you sure you're all right?" Cristina's dark brown eyes were worried. "I'm fine." Emma sat back against the pillows. She collected kitschy California pillows: some looked like postcards, some were shaped like the state or said i love cali. "You don't look fine," Cristina said. "You look like--my mother used to say there was a look people got when they realized something. You look like someone who has realized something." Emma wanted to close her eyes, to hide her thoughts from Cristina. Thoughts that were treacherous, dangerous, wrong to have. "Just shock," she said. "I came close to losing Julian and--it threw me off. I'll be fine tomorrow." She forced a smile. "If you say so, manita." Cristina sighed. "If you say so." After Julian cleaned himself up, washed the blood off, and arranged to send the shreds of his poison-burned gear jacket to Malcolm, he walked down the hall to Emma's room. And stopped halfway. He'd wanted to lie down on the bed beside her, and for them to talk over the night's events, and to close their eyes together, with the sound of her breathing like the sound of the ocean, measuring out the steps toward sleep. But. When he thought of that night in the back of the car, of Emma hovering over him, panic on her face and blood on her hands, he didn't feel what he knew he should feel: fear, the memory of pain, relief that he'd healed. Instead he felt a tightening in his body that sent an ache down to the center of his bones. When he closed his eyes, he saw Emma in the witchlight, her hair tumbling out of its fastening, the light of the streetlamps shining through the strands and turning them to a sheet of pale summer-frozen ice. Emma's hair. Maybe because she took it down so rarely, maybe because Emma with her hair down was one of the first things he'd ever wanted to paint, but the long, looping pale strands of it had always been like cords that connected directly to his nerves. His head hurt, and his body ached unreasonably, wanting to be back in that car with her. It made no sense, so he forced his steps away from her door, down the hall, to the library. It was dark in there and cold and smelled of old paper. Still, Julian didn't need a light; he knew exactly what section of the room he was headed toward. Law. Julian was pulling down a red-bound book from a high shelf when a reedy cry drifted down the hall. He grabbed hold of the tome and was out of the room in an instant, rushing down the corridor. He rounded the corner and saw Drusilla's door open. She was leaning out of it, witchlight in hand, her round face illuminated. Her pajamas were covered in a pattern of frightening masks. "Tavvy's been crying," she said. "He stopped for a while, but then he started again." "Thanks for telling me." He dropped a kiss on her forehead. "Go back to bed. I'll deal with it." Drusilla withdrew, and Julian slipped into Tavvy's room, closing the door behind him. Tavvy was a curled-up ball under the covers of his bed. He was asleep, his body curved around one of his pillows, his mouth open on a gasp. Tears ran down his face. Julian sat down on the bed and put a hand on Tavvy's shoulder. "Octavian," he said. "Wake up; you're having a nightmare, wake up." Tavvy shot upright, his brown hair in wild disarray. When he saw Julian, he hiccuped and flung himself at his older brother, arms wrapping around his neck. Jules held Tavvy and rubbed his back, gently patting the sharp knobs of his spine. Too small, too skinny, his mind said. It had been a battle to get Tavvy to eat and sleep ever since the Dark War. He remembered running through the streets of Alicante with Tavvy in his arms, stumbling on the cracked paving, trying to keep his little brother's face mashed against his shoulder so that he wouldn't see the blood and the death all around him. Thinking that if they could just get through everything without Tavvy seeing what was happening, it would be all right. He wouldn't remember. He wouldn't know. And still Tavvy woke up with nightmares every week, shaking and sweating and crying. And every time it happened, the dull realization that he hadn't really saved his baby brother at all went through Julian like spikes. Tavvy's breaths evened out slowly as Julian sat there, arms around him. He wanted to lie down, wanted to curl up around his youngest brother and sleep. He needed rest so badly it was dragging at him, like a wave pulling him under and down. But he couldn't sleep. His body felt restless, unsettled. The arrow going into him had been agony; pulling it out had been worse. He'd felt his skin tear and a moment of pure, animalistic panic, the surety that he was going to die, and then what would happen to them, livvyandtyanddrusillaandtavvyandmark? And then Emma's voice in his ear, and her hands on him, and he'd known he was going to live. He looked at himself now, the mark on his ribs entirely gone--well, there was something there, a faint line of white against his tanned skin, but that was nothing. Shadowhunters lived through scars. Sometimes he thought they lived for them. Unbidden, in his mind rose the image he'd been trying to crush down since he'd returned to the Institute: Emma, in his lap, her hands on his shoulders. Her hair like drifts of pale gold around her face. He remembered thinking that if he died, at least he would die with her as close to him as she could possibly be. As would ever be allowed by the Law. As Tavvy slept, Julian reached for the law book he'd taken from the library. It was a book he'd looked at so many times that it now always fell open to the same well-worn page. On Parabatai, it said. It is decreed that those who have undergone the ceremony of parabatai and are forever bound by the terms of the oaths of Saul and David, of Ruth and Naomi, shall not enter into marriage, shall not bear children together, and shall not love each other in the manner of eros, but only the manner of philia or agape. The punishment for the contravention of this law shall be, at the discretion of the Clave: the separation of the parabatai in question from each other, exile from their families, and should the criminal behavior continue, the stripping of their Marks and their expulsion from the Nephilim. Never again shall they be Shadowhunters. So it is decreed by Raziel. Sed lex, dura lex. The Law is hard, but it is the Law. When Emma came into the kitchen, Julian was by the sink, cleaning up the remains of breakfast. Mark was leaning against the kitchen island in dark jeans and a black shirt. With his new short hair, in the daylight, he looked astonishingly different from the ragged feral boy who'd pushed back his hood in the Sanctuary. She'd gone for a deliberately long run on the beach that morning, missing the family meal on purpose, trying to clear her head. She grabbed a bottled smoothie out of the refrigerator instead. When she turned around, Mark was grinning. "As I understand it, what I am currently wearing is not semiformal enough for the performance tonight?" he inquired. Emma glanced from him to Julian. "So Mr. Rules unbent and decided you could come tonight?" Julian gave a fluid shrug. "I'm a reasonable man." "Ty and Livvy have promised to help me find something to wear," said Mark, heading for the kitchen door. "Don't trust them," Julian called after him. "Don't--" He shook his head as the door closed. "Guess he'll have to learn on his own." "That reminds me," Emma said, leaning on the counter. "We have an emergency situation." "An emergency?" With a concerned look, he thumbed off the water and turned to face her. Emma set her bottled drink down. Soap suds were clinging to Jules's forearms, and his T-shirt was damp from the hot water. She couldn't help a flash of memory: Jules in the back of the car, looking up at her with gritted teeth. The way his skin had felt, under her hands, the slipperiness of his blood. "Is it Diana?" he said, reaching for paper towels. "What?" That snapped her out of her reverie. "Is Diana all right?" "Presumably," he said. "She left a note saying she was going to be gone today. Back to Ojai to see her warlock friend." "She doesn't know about tonight." Emma leaned on the counter. "Does she?" Jules shook his head. A damp curl stuck to his cheekbone. "Didn't exactly get a chance to tell her." "You could text," Emma pointed out. "Or call." "I could," he said neutrally. "But then I'd feel like I needed to tell her about me getting hurt last night." "Maybe you should." "I'm fine," he said. "I mean, really, fine. Like nothing ever happened." He shook his head. "I don't want her insisting I stay back from tonight. The theater could be nothing, but if it's something, I want to be there." He dropped the paper towels in the trash. "If you're there, I want to be there." "I like it when you're deceptive." Emma stretched up on her toes, arms behind her head, trying to work out the kinks in her back muscles. Cool air touched the bare skin of her stomach as her tank pulled up. "If you're totally fine, though, maybe you don't ever have to tell Diana? Just a suggestion." When Julian didn't answer, she glanced up at him. He was arrested midmotion, looking at her. Each of his lashes was a perfect dark line; he was expressionless, his gaze shuttered, as if caught in a peculiar stillness. He was beautiful. The most beautiful thing she'd ever seen. She wanted to crawl inside his skin, live where he breathed. She wanted. She was terrified. She had never wanted like this around Julian before. It was because he'd almost died, she told herself. Her whole system was wired to monitor his survival. She needed him to live. He'd nearly died, and everything inside her was short-circuiting. He would be horrified, she told herself. If he knew how she was feeling-- he'd be disgusted. Things would go back to the way they were when he'd first come back from England, when she'd thought that he was angry at her. That maybe he hated her. He knew even then, said a small voice at the back of her mind. He knew about your feelings. He knew what you didn't know. She pressed her hands hard against the counter, the marble digging into her palms, the pain clearing her head. Shut up, she told the voice in her head. Shut up. "An emergency." His voice was low. "You said there was an emergency?" "A fashion emergency--Cristina needs a dress to blend in tonight, and there's literally nothing in the house." She glanced at her watch. "It should take us thirty minutes, tops." He relaxed, clearly relieved. "Hidden Treasures?" he asked. It was a good guess: Emma's favorite vintage store was well known to the family. Every time she went she picked things up for them: a bow tie for Tavvy, a flowered headband for Livvy, an old horror movie poster for Dru. "Yep. Do you want anything?" "I've always kind of wanted a Batman clock that says 'WAKE UP, BOY WONDER' when it goes off," he said. "It would liven up my room." "We've got it!" Livvy said, bounding into the kitchen. "Well, some of it, anyway. But it's weird." Emma turned to her with relief. "Got what?" "In English, Livvy," said Julian. "What's weird?" "We translated some of the lines in the cave," said Ty, trailing in on Livvy's heels. He was wearing an oversize gray hooded sweater that swallowed up his hands. His dark hair spilled over the edge of the hood. "But they don't make sense." "Are they a message?" Emma said. Livvy shook her head. "Lines from a poem," she said, unfolding the paper she held. But our love it was stronger by far than the love Of those who were older than we-- Of many far wiser than we-- And neither the angels in Heaven above Nor the demons down under the sea Can ever dissever my soul from the soul Of the beautiful Annabel Lee.... " 'Annabel Lee,' " said Julian. "Edgar Allan Poe." "I know the poem," Livvy said, scrunching up her eyebrows. "I just don't know why it was written on the walls of the cave." "I thought maybe it was a book cipher," said Ty. "But that would mean there was a second half of it. Something in another location, maybe. Might be worth checking with Malcolm." "I'll add it to the list," said Julian. Cristina stuck her head in through the kitchen door. "Emma?" she said. "Are you ready to go?" "You look worried," said Livvy. "Is Emma taking you somewhere to kill you?" "Worse," Emma said, heading over to join Cristina at the door. "Shopping." "For tonight? First, I am so jealous, and second, don't let her take you to that place in Topanga Canyon--" "That's enough!" Emma clapped her hands over Cristina's ears. "Don't listen to her. She's lost her mind from all that code breaking." "Pick me up some cuff links," Jules called, heading back toward the sink. "What color?" Emma paused halfway out the door with Cristina. "I don't care as long as they hold my cuffs together. Otherwise they'll be sad and unlinked," Jules said. "And get back as quick as you can." The sound of the water running in the sink was drowned out by Livvy, who had already begun reciting more of the poem. It was many and many a year ago, In a kingdom by the sea ... "This is where you want to buy clothes?" Cristina asked, her eyebrows arched, as Emma pulled the Toyota into a dirt parking lot surrounded by trees. "It's the closest place," Emma said, turning off the car. In front of them was a single freestanding building with a sign boasting foot-high letters in glitter that spelled out the words hidden treasures. A massive red-and-white popcorn machine stood next to the store, along with a painted model of a curtained caravan, advertising the services of Gargantua the Great. "And besides, it's awesome." "This does not look like a place you buy glamorous dresses," Cristina said, wrinkling up her nose. "This looks like a place where you are kidnapped and sold to the circus." Emma grabbed her by the wrist. "Don't you trust me?" she wheedled. "Of course not," Cristina said. "You're crazy." But she let Emma drag her into the store, which was filled with kitschy knickknacks: Fiestaware platters, old china dolls, and, up by the register, racks of vintage jewelry and watches. A second room opened off the first. It was full of clothes--amazing clothes. Secondhand vintage Levi's, fifties pencil skirts in tweed and bombazine, and tops in silk and lace and crushed velvet. And in a smaller second room off the main one, the dresses. They looked like hanging butterflies: sheets of red organza, watercolor-printed charmeuse, the hem of a Balmain gown, the froth of a tulle petticoat, like foam on water. "Didn't Julian say he needed cuff links?" Cristina said, pulling Emma to a stop by the counter. The salesgirl behind it, wearing a pair of cat's- eye glasses and a name tag that said sarah, studiously ignored them. Emma ran her eyes over the display of men's cuff links--most were joke items, shaped like dice or guns or cats, but there was a section of nicer ones: consignment Paul Smith and Burberry and Lanvin. As she ran her gaze over them, she felt suddenly shy. Picking out cuff links seemed like something a girlfriend would do. Not that she'd ever done it for Cameron, or anyone else she'd dated even briefly, but she'd never cared enough to want to. When Julian had a girlfriend, Emma knew, she would absolutely be the sort of girl who would pick out cuff links for him. Who would remember his birthday and call him every day. She would adore him. How could she not? Emma picked up a pair of gold-plated cuff links with black stones set in them, almost blindly. The thought of Julian with a girlfriend sent a pain through her that she couldn't comprehend. Setting the cuff links down on the counter, she walked into the small room full of dresses. Cristina followed her, looking worried. I used to come here with my mom, Emma thought, running the back of her hand across the rack of satins and silks and bright rayons. She loved crazy vintage things, old Chanel jackets, beaded flapper dresses. But out loud all she said was "We have to hurry--we shouldn't be spending so much time away from the Institute while the investigation's happening." Cristina grabbed up a shimmering cocktail dress in pink brocade sprinkled with tiny gold flowers. "I'm going to try this on." She disappeared into a changing booth with a curtain made from a Star Wars bedsheet. Emma pulled another dress from the rack: pale silk with beaded silver straps. Looking at it made her feel the way she did when she looked at a gorgeous sunset or one of Julian's paintings or his hands moving over the brushes and bottles of paint. She went into the dressing room to change. When she came out, Cristina was standing in the middle of the room, scowling down at her pink dress. It clung like Saran Wrap to her every curve. "I think it's too tight," she said. "I think it's supposed to be that tight," said Emma. "It makes your boobs look great." "Emma!" Cristina looked up, scandalized, then gasped. "Oh, you look so lovely!" Emma touched the ivory-and-silver material of the dress with uncertain hands. White meant death and mourning to Shadowhunters; they rarely wore it casually, though the fact that it was ivory meant she could get away with it. "You think?" Cristina was smiling at her. "You know, sometimes you are just like I thought you would be, and sometimes you are so different." Emma moved to look in the mirror. "What do you mean, what you thought I would be like?" Cristina picked up a snow globe and frowned at it. "You know, it wasn't just Mark I heard about before I came here. I heard about you. Everyone said you would be the next Jace Herondale. The next great Shadowhunter warrior." "I'm not going to be that," said Emma. Her own voice sounded calm and small and distant in her ears. She couldn't believe she was saying what she was saying. The words seemed to be coming out without her thoughts forming them first, as if they were creating their own reality by being spoken. "I'm not special, Cristina. I don't have extra Angel blood or special powers. I'm an ordinary Shadowhunter." "You are not ordinary." "I am. I don't have magic powers. I'm not cursed or blessed. I can do exactly what everyone else can do. The only reason I'm good is because I train." The salesgirl, Sarah, stuck her head back around the door, her eyes saucer wide. Emma had forgotten she was there. "Do you need any help?" "I need so much help, you have no idea," Emma said. Alarmed, Sarah retreated to her counter. "This is embarrassing," Cristina said in a whispered hiss. "She probably thinks we are lunatics. We should go." Emma sighed. "I'm sorry, Tina," she said. "I'll pay for everything." "But I don't even know if I want this dress!" Cristina called as Emma vanished back into the changing cubicle. Emma whirled around and pointed at her. "Yes, you do. I was serious about your boobs. They look amazing. I don't even think I've ever seen that much of your boobs before. If I had boobs like that, you better believe I'd show them off." "Please stop saying 'boobs,'" Cristina wailed. "It's a terrible word. It sounds ridiculous." "Maybe," said Emma, yanking the dressing room door shut. "But they look great." Ten minutes later, dresses in shopping bags, they were driving back down the canyon road toward the ocean. Cristina, in the seat next to Emma, sat with her legs crossed demurely at the ankles, not propped up on the dashboard like Emma's would have been. All around them the familiar scenery of the canyon rose up: gray rock, green scrub, and chaparral. Oak trees and Queen Anne's lace. Once, Emma had climbed up into these mountains with Jules and found an eagle's nest, a tiny cache of the bones of mice and bats inside it. "You are wrong about why you are good at what you do," Cristina said. "It is not just training. Everyone trains, Emma." "Yeah, but I kill myself training," Emma said. "It's just about all I do. I get up and train, and run, and I split my hands on the punching bag, and I train for hours into the night, and I have to, because there is nothing else special about me and nothing else that matters. All there is, is training and finding out who killed my parents. Because they were the ones who thought I was special, and whoever took them away from me--" "Other people think you are special, Emma," said Cristina, sounding more like an older sister than ever. "What I have is trying," said Emma, her voice tinged with bitterness. She was thinking of the tiny bones in the nest, how fragile they'd been, how easily snapped between a pair of fingers. "I can try harder than anyone else in the world. I can make revenge the only thing I have in my life. I can do that, because I have to. But it means it's all I have." "It's not all you have," Cristina said. "What you haven't had is your moment. Your chance to be great. Jace Herondale and Clary Fairchild weren't heroes in a vacuum--there was a war. They were forced to make choices. Those moments come for all of us. They will come for you, too." She laced her fingers together. "The Angel has a plan for you. I promise it. You are more prepared than you think. You have stayed strong not just through training but through the people around you-- loving them and being loved. Julian and the others, they have not let you isolate yourself, alone with your revenge and your bitter thoughts. The sea wears down cliffs, Emma, and turns them into sand; so love wears us down and breaks our defenses. You only do not know how much it means, to have people who will fight for you when it goes wrong --" Her voice cracked, and she looked toward the window. They had reached the highway; Emma almost drove into traffic in alarm. "Cristina? What is it? What happened?" Cristina shook her head. "I know something happened to you in Mexico," Emma said. "I know someone hurt you. Just please tell me what it was and what they did. I promise I won't try to hunt them down and feed them to my imaginary fish. I just--" She sighed. "I want to help." "You cannot." Cristina glanced down at her interlaced fingers. "Some betrayals cannot be forgiven." "Was it Perfect Diego?" "Let it go, Emma," Cristina said, and so Emma did, and the rest of the way back to the Institute they talked about their dresses and how best to conceal weapons in items of clothing that were not meant to hide an armory. But Emma had noticed the way Cristina had flinched when she'd said Diego's name. Maybe not now, maybe not today, she thought, but she would find out what had happened. Julian flew downstairs at the loud, repetitive pounding on the front door of the Institute. He was still barefoot; he hadn't had a chance to put shoes on yet. Once he'd finished cleaning up after breakfast, he'd spent an hour trying to convince Uncle Arthur that no one had stolen his bust of Hermes (it was under his desk), found out that Drusilla had locked herself in Tavvy's playhouse in a sulk because she hadn't been invited to the diner the night before. Tavvy discovered Ty had been hiding a skunk in his room and started screaming. Livvy was busy convincing Ty to release the skunk back into the wild; Ty thought that the fact that he and Livvy had translated the Poe lines meant he'd earned the right to keep the skunk. Mark, the only sibling who hadn't given Julian any trouble that day, was hiding somewhere. Julian swung the door open. Malcolm Fade stood on the other side, wearing jeans and the kind of sweatshirt you could tell was expensive because it appeared to be filthy and torn, but artfully so. Someone had spent time and money ripping that sweatshirt. "You know, it's not a good idea to whack on the door like that," said Julian. "We keep a lot of weapons down here in case someone tries to break in." "Huh," said Malcolm. "I'm not sure what that first statement has to do with the second statement." "Don't you? I thought it was obvious." Malcolm's eyes were a brilliant purple, which usually meant he was in a peculiar mood. "Aren't you going to let me in?" "No," Julian said. His mind was whirling with thoughts of Mark. Mark was upstairs, and Malcolm couldn't see Mark. Mark's return was too much of a secret to ask him to keep--and too much of a clue as to the reason for their investigation. Julian schooled his features into a look of pleasant blandness, but didn't move from his place blocking the door. "Ty brought a skunk inside," he said. "Believe me, you don't want to come in." Malcolm looked alarmed. "A skunk?" "A skunk," Julian said. Julian believed that all the best lies were based on truth. "Did you translate any of the markings?" "Not yet," Malcolm said. He moved his hand--not much, a small gesture, but the copies of the partially translated markings they'd given him appeared, held delicately between his fingers. Sometimes, Julian thought, it was easy to forget that Malcolm was a powerful user of magic. "But I did discover their origins." "Really?" Julian tried to look shocked. They already knew the language was an ancient one of Faerie, though they hadn't been able to tell Malcolm that. On the other hand, this was a chance to check and see if the Fair Folk had been telling them the truth. Julian eyed Malcolm with renewed interest. "Wait, maybe this isn't the markings." Malcolm eyed the papers. "It seems to be a recipe for orange cake." Julian crossed his arms over his chest. "No, it isn't." Malcolm frowned. "I definitely remember looking at a recipe for orange cake recently." Julian rolled his eyes silently. Sometimes with Malcolm you just had to be patient. "Never mind," Malcolm said. "That was in a copy of O magazine. This--" He tapped the paper. "An ancient language of Faerie--you were right; it predates Shadowhunters. Anyway, that's the language origin. I can probably get more done in the next few days. But that's not why I came by." Julian brightened. "I did some examining of the poison on that fabric you sent me last night. I checked it against different toxins. It was a cataplasm--a concentrate of a rare type of the belladonna plant with demon poisons. It should have killed you." "But Emma healed me," said Julian. "With an iratze. So are you saying we should be looking for--" "I wasn't saying anything about looking," Malcolm interrupted. "I'm just telling you. No iratze should have been able to fix you. Even accounting for the strength of parabatai runes, you absolutely shouldn't have survived." His odd violet eyes fixed on Julian. "I don't know if it's something you did, or something Emma did, but whatever it was--was impossible. You shouldn't be breathing right now." Julian trailed up the stairs slowly. He could hear yelling from above him, but not the sort that sounded as if anyone was in actual trouble. Telling the difference between play yelling and actual yelling was an absolute necessity when you were in charge of four kids. His mind was still on what Malcolm had told him, about the cataplasm. It was unnerving to be told that you should be dead. There was always the possibility that Malcolm was wrong, but somehow Julian doubted it. Hadn't Emma said something about finding belladonna plants near the convergence? Thoughts of poison and convergences vanished from his mind as he turned down the corridor from the stairs. The room they kept Tiberius's computer in was filled with light and noise. Julian moved into the doorway and stared. There was a video game alive and flickering on the computer screen. Mark was sitting in front of it, mashing rather desperately at the buttons on a controller as a truck sped toward him on-screen. It crushed his character with a splat, and he tossed the controller aside. "The box serves the Lord of Lies!" he announced indignantly. Ty laughed, and Julian felt something tug at his heart. The sound of his brother laughing was one of Julian's favorite noises, in part because Ty did it so sincerely, without any attempt to cover up his laughter or any sense he should hide it. Wordplay and irony often weren't funny to Ty, but people acting silly was, and he had an absolute and sincere amusement at the behavior of animals--Church falling off a table and trying to regain his dignity--that was beautiful to Julian. In the dead of night, lying in bed staring at his murals of thorns, Julian sometimes wished he could put down the role that required him to always be the one telling Ty he couldn't have skunks in his room or reminding him it was time to study or coming in to shut his lights off when he was reading instead of sleeping. What if, like a normal brother, he could watch Sherlock Holmes movies with Ty and help him collect lizards without worrying that they were going to escape and run through the Institute? What if? Julian's mother had always stressed the difference between doing something for someone and giving them the tools to do it themselves. It was how she had taught Julian to paint. Julian had always tried to do that for Ty, too, though it had often seemed like he was feeling his way in the dark: making books, toys, lessons that seemed tailored to the special way Ty thought--was it the right thing to do? He thought it had helped. He hoped. Sometimes hope was all you had. Hope, and watching Ty. There was a pleasure in seeing Ty become more himself, need help and guidance less and less. Yet there was a sadness, too, for the day his brother wouldn't need him anymore. Sometimes, in the depths of his heart, Julian wondered if Ty would want to spend time with him at all, once that day had come--with the brother who was always making him do things and was no fun at all. "It's not a box," Ty said. "It's a controller." "Well, it lies," said Mark, turning around in his chair. He saw Julian, leaning in the doorway, and nodded. "Well met, Jules." Julian knew this was a faerie greeting and struggled internally not to point out to Mark that they'd already met that morning in the kitchen, not to mention several thousand times before that. He won over his baser impulses, but just barely. "Hi, Mark." "Is everything all right?" Julian nodded. "Could I talk to Ty for a second?" Tiberius stood up. His black hair was messy, getting too long. Julian reminded himself to schedule a haircut for both twins. Another thing to add to the calendar. Ty came out into the corridor, pulling the computer room door shut behind him. His expression was wary. "Is this about the skunk? Because Livvy took it back outside." Julian shook his head. "It's not about the skunk." Ty lifted his face. He'd always had delicate features, more elfin than Helen or Mark's. His father had said he was a throwback to earlier generations of Blackthorns, and he looked not unlike some of the family portraits in the dining room they rarely used, slender Victorian men in tailored clothes with porcelain faces and black, curling hair. "Then what is it?" Julian hesitated. The whole house was still. He could hear the faint crackle of the computer on the other side of the door. He had thought about asking Ty to look into the poison that he had been shot with. But that would require him to say, I was dying. I should be dead. The words wouldn't come. They were like a dam, and behind them were so many other words: I'm not sure about anything. I hate being in charge. I hate making the decisions. I'm terrified you'll all learn to hate me. I'm terrified of losing you. I'm terrified of losing Mark. I'm terrified of losing Emma. I want someone to take over. I'm not as strong as you think. The things I want are wrong and broken things to want. He knew he could say none of this. The facade he showed them, his children, had to be perfect: A crack in him would be like a crack in the world to them. "You know I love you," he said, instead, and Ty looked up at him, startled, meeting his gaze for a flicker of a moment. Over the years, Julian had come to understand why Ty didn't like looking into other people's eyes. It was too much movement, color, expression, like looking into a blaring television set. He could do it--he knew it was something people liked, and that it mattered to them--but he didn't see what the fuss was about. Ty was searching now, though, seeking in Julian's face the answer to his odd hesitancy. "I do know," Ty said, finally. Julian couldn't help the ghost of a smile. It was what you wanted to hear, wasn't it, from your children? That they knew they were loved? He remembered when he had been carrying Tavvy upstairs, once, when he'd been thirteen; he'd tripped and fallen, twisting his body around so that he would land on his back and head, not caring if he was hurt as long as Tavvy was all right. He'd cracked himself pretty hard on the head, too, but he'd sat upright fast, his mind racing: Tavvy, my baby, is he okay? It was the first time he'd thought "my baby" and not "the baby." "I don't understand why you wanted to talk to me, though," Ty said, his dark brows drawn together in puzzlement. "Was there a reason?" Julian shook his head. In the distance, he could hear the front door open, the faint sound of Emma and Cristina's laughter carrying. They were back. "No reason at all," he said. <|title|>Chapter 14: Bright Eyes <|startofchapter|>Standing in the marble entryway, Julian chanced one last look in the mirror. He had made Livvy look up "semiformal" for him and had his grim suspicions confirmed: It meant a dark suit. The only one he had was a black Sy Devore vintage one Emma had fished out of a bin at Hidden Treasures. It had a charcoal silk lining and mother-of-pearl buttons on the vest. When he'd put it on she'd clapped her hands and told him he looked like a movie star, so of course he'd bought it. "You look very handsome, Andrew." Julian spun around. It was Uncle Arthur. His stained gray robe was loosely belted around sagging jeans and a torn T-shirt. Gray stubble spiked along his jaw. Julian didn't bother to correct his uncle. He knew how much he looked like his father had when he was young. Maybe it comforted Arthur to imagine that his brother was still alive. Maybe seeing Julian in formal clothes reminded Arthur of years past, when he and his brother had been young and gone to parties and dances. Before everything had fallen apart. Julian knew that Arthur grieved for his brother, in his own way. It was hidden under the layers of faerie enchantment and trauma that had shattered his mind. If it were not for the fact that Arthur was so retiring and so studious, Julian could only assume his condition would have been discovered before, when he lived at the London Institute. He also guessed that his uncle had gotten worse since the trauma of the Dark War. Still, sometimes, when Arthur had taken the medicine Malcolm provided, Julian could catch glimpses of the Shadowhunter he had been long ago: brave, sharp, and with a sense of honor like Achilles or Aeneas. "Hello, Arthur," he said. Arthur nodded decidedly. He placed his open palm against Julian's chest. "I have a meeting with Anselm Nightshade," he said in a deep voice. "Good to know," Julian said. It was good to know. Arthur and Anselm were friends, sharing a love of the classics. Anything that kept Arthur busy was an asset. Arthur turned with almost military precision and marched across the foyer and through the doors of the Sanctuary. They clanged shut behind him. Laughter floated down into the entryway. Julian turned away from the mirror just in time to see Cristina coming down the steps. Her brown skin glowed against the old-fashioned pink brocade of her dress. Gold chandelier earrings swung from her ears. After her came Emma. He registered her dress, but barely--that it was pale ivory, that it floated around her like angel wings. The hem brushed her ankles, and he could see the tips of white boots underneath, knew there were knives tucked into the tops, their handles pressed against her calves. Her hair was loose, and it rippled down her back in dark gold waves. There was a movement, a softness to it that he knew he could never capture in paint. Gold leaf, maybe, if he painted like Klimt, but even then it would be a pale comparison to the real thing. She reached the bottom of the stairs and he realized that the material of her dress was just fine enough that he could see the shape and suggestion of her body through it. His pulse started a hard beat against the inside of his cuffs. His suit felt too tight, his skin hot and scratchy. She smiled at him. Her brown eyes were outlined with gold; it picked up the lighter flecks in her irises, those circles of copper he had spent his childhood counting, memorizing. "I brought them," she said, and for a moment he forgot what she was talking about. Then he remembered and held out his wrists. Emma unfurled her fingers. Gold cuff links set with black stones glimmered in her palm. Her touch was gentle as she took each of his hands in hers, turned it over, and carefully fastened the French cuffs of his shirt. She was quick, efficient, but he felt each glide and movement of her fingertips against the skin of his inner wrist like the touch of hot wires. She dropped his hands, stepped back, and pretended to survey him thoughtfully. "I guess you'll do," she said. Cristina gave a gasp. She was looking up, toward the top of the stairs; Julian followed her gaze. Mark was descending the staircase. Julian blinked, not quite believing his eyes. His older brother seemed to be wearing a long, slightly ratty fake-fur coat--and nothing else. "Mark," he said. "What are you wearing?" Mark paused halfway down the stairs. His legs were bare. His feet were bare. Julian was 99 percent sure all of him was bare except for the coat, which was fairly loose. It was more of Mark than Julian had seen since they'd shared a bedroom when he was two. Mark looked puzzled. "Ty and Livvy told me this was semiformal." It was then that Julian became aware of the pealing laughter from above. Ty and Livvy were seated along the upstairs railing of the staircase, giggling. "And I told you not to trust them!" Emma's lips were twitching. "Mark, just--" She held out a hand. Cristina was standing looking up at Mark with both her cheeks bright red, her hands clapped over her mouth. "Go back up to the landing, okay?" She turned to Jules and dropped her voice. "You have to find him something else to wear!" "You think?" Emma raised her eyes in exasperation. "Jules. Go into my room, okay? Trunk at the foot of the bed, there's some of my parents' old clothes. My dad wore a tux at his wedding. There were rune bands around the cuffs but we can rip those off." "But your dad's tux--" She looked up at him, sideways. "Don't worry about it." A dozen flecks of gold in her left eye, only seven in her right. Each one like a tiny starburst. "I'll be right back," Julian said, and jogged up the stairs toward his brother. Mark was on the landing, his arms held out in front of him as if he were examining the sleeves of his fur coat and deciding that they, in fact, were the problem. Dru, holding Tavvy's hand, had joined the twins. They were all giggling. The glow on Ty's face when he looked at Mark made Julian warm and cold all at once. What if Mark decided not to stay? What if they couldn't find the killer and he was taken back to the Wild Hunt? What if? "Would you say I'm overdressed or underdressed?" Mark inquired, arching his eyebrows. Emma burst out laughing. She collapsed onto the bottom step of the staircase. A moment later Cristina had joined her. They clutched each other, helpless with laughter. Julian wanted to laugh too. He wished he could. He wished he could forget the darkness that flickered at the edge of his vision. He wished he could close his eyes and fall, forgetting for one moment that there was no net stretched out below to catch him. "Are you ready yet?" Julian asked the closed door of the bathroom. He'd retrieved John Carstairs's suit from Emma's trunk and dragged Mark back to his own bedroom to change. The thought of his brother being naked in Emma's room didn't sit well with him, even if Emma wasn't there. The door to the bathroom opened and Mark stepped out. The tux was black, simple. It was impossible to see where the runed bands of fabric had been snipped away. The elegant lines of it seemed to sweep upward, making Mark appear taller, more polished. For the first time since his return, every bit of the feral faerie child in him appeared to have been brushed away like cobwebs. He looked human. Like someone who'd always been human. "Why do you bite your nails?" he said. Julian, who hadn't even been conscious that he was gnawing on the side of his thumb-- the satisfying pain of skin between his teeth, the metal of the blood in his mouth --dropped his hands into his lap. "Bad habit." "It's something people do when they're stressed," said Mark. "Even I know that." His fingers scrabbled uselessly at his tie. He frowned down at it. Julian got to his feet and went over to his brother, taking the loops of the tie in his hands. He couldn't remember who had taught him how to knot a tie. Malcolm, he thought. It had almost certainly been Malcolm. "But what do you have to be stressed about, little brother?" Mark said. "You weren't carried away by the faeries. You've spent your life here. Not that the life of a Shadowhunter isn't stressful, but why are you the one with the bloody hands?" Julian's fingers faltered for a moment. "You don't know everything about me, Mark. Just like I'm willing to bet I don't know everything about you." Mark's blue-and-gold eyes were wide and guileless. "Ask me." "I'd rather learn in my own time." Julian gave the tie a final tug and stepped back to examine his handiwork. Mark looked as if he might have stepped out of a catalog advertising tuxedoes--if male catalog models had pointed ears. "I wouldn't," said Mark. "Tell me one thing I don't know about you that makes you bite your fingers." Julian turned toward the door, then paused, hand on the knob. "Our father," he said. "You know what happened to him?" "He was Turned into one of the Endarkened by Sebastian Morgenstern," said Mark. "How could I forget?" "And then?" "And then?" Mark sounded puzzled. "And then he died during the Dark War." "Yes, he died," said Julian. "Because I killed him." Mark drew in his breath. There was shock in that gasp, and pity. Julian tensed. He couldn't bear being pitied. "He was coming forTy," said Julian. "I did what I had to do." "It wasn't him," Mark said swiftly. "That's what everyone says." Julian was still facing the door. He felt a light tap on his shoulder and turned to see Mark looking at him. "But everyone didn't see it happen, Julian, our father being Turned. I did," Mark said, and suddenly in his voice there was the sound of the older brother he had been, the one who knew more, had lived more. "The light in his eyes went out like a candle guttering in the dark. He was already dead inside. All you did was bury the body." There was sadness in Mark's eyes, and knowledge, the knowledge of dark things. Mark had blood on his hands too, Julian thought, and for a moment the idea was such a relief that he felt the weight on his shoulders lift incrementally. "Thank you for the assistance," Mark said formally. "With my manner of dress. I will not trust the twins again with important matters of human tradition." Julian felt his lip twitch up at the corner. "Yeah, I wouldn't." Mark looked down at himself. "I am presentable?" "You look like James Bond." Mark smiled and Julian felt a small swell of absurd gladness rise up in his chest, that his brother had gotten the reference, that he was pleased. They made their way back toward the entryway in silence, a silence pierced as they reached the landing by the sound of someone shouting. Together, they were brought up short at the top of the stairs. "Does your vision match mine, brother?" Mark asked. "If you mean am I seeing what you're seeing . . . ?" Julian hazarded. "Then yes, if you mean that the foyer is full of Chihuahuas." "It's not just Chihuahuas," said Ty, who was sitting on the top step, enjoying the spectacle. "It's a number of different small dogs of various breeds." Julian snorted. The foyer was, indeed, full of small dogs. They yipped and barked and surged. "Don't worry about the dogs," he said. "Nightshade likes to stash them in the entryway when he meets with Uncle Arthur." "Nightshade?" Mark's eyebrows went up. "Anselm Nightshade? The head of the Los Angeles vampire clan?" "Yep," Julian said. "He comes around sometimes. He and Arthur get along surprisingly well." "And the dogs . . . ?" "He likes dogs," said Ty. One of the Chihuahuas had fallen asleep by the front door, all four paws in the air. "That dog looks dead." "It isn't dead. It's relaxing." Ty seemed amused; Julian ruffled his brother's hair. Ty leaned into it, catlike. "Where are Emma and Cristina?" "They went to bring the car around," said Ty. "And Livvy went back to her room. Why can't I come with you?" "Too many of us will look suspicious," Julian said. "You'll have to stay here --guard the Institute." Ty looked unconvinced. He frowned after them as Mark and Julian hurried out the front doors. The car was pulled up in front of the Institute, the engine idling. Emma pushed the passenger-side door open and whistled. "Mark. You look amazing." Mark glanced down at himself, surprised. A surge of prickly heat ran up the insides of Julian's wrists. Cristina was in the backseat, also looking at Mark. Julian couldn't read her expression. Emma patted the seat beside her. In the dimness of the car, she was a shadow: white dress, golden hair, like a faded illustration in a children's picture book. "Hop in, Jules. You're mine--my navigator." You're mine. He slid into the seat beside hers. Right turn here," Julian said, pointing. "You'd think the Institute could afford to have reliable GPS installed in this stupid car," Emma muttered, slewing the wheel to the right. She'd tried to program it when they'd gotten into the Toyota, but it had refused to turn on. Once, the GPS had only spoken in a heavy German accent for weeks. Julian had decided it was possessed. Cristina squeaked and subsided. Emma could see her in the rearview mirror. She was subtly leaning away from Mark; it wasn't anything that someone who didn't know her well could have spotted. Mark didn't seem to have noticed. He was staring out his open window, blond hair ruffled, humming tunelessly. "Slow down, speed racer," Julian said as someone behind Emma honked. "We're late," she said. "The show is supposed to start in ten minutes. If some people hadn't decided that 'semiformal' meant 'seminaked'--" "Why are you calling me 'some people'?" Mark inquired. "I am only one person." "This is weird," Julian observed, turning back to look straight ahead. "There's nobody around on this street." "There are houses," Cristina pointed out. "They're all dark." Julian's gaze scanned the road. "A little early, don't you think, for everyone to have gone to bed?" He pointed. "There's the theater." He was right. Emma could see lights, hot neon and electricity, up ahead, the arrow shape of a sign: the midnight theater. The Hollywood Hills glittered in the distance as if they'd been dusted with starlight. Everything else was dark, even the streetlights. As they neared the theater, the sides of the street became more thickly packed with parked cars. Expensive ones--BMWs, Porsches, Italian sports cars whose names Emma couldn't remember. She pulled into a spot across from the theater and killed the engine. "Are we ready?" She swung around to look into the backseat. Cristina winked at her. Mark nodded. "Then let's go." Julian was already out of the car, opening the trunk. He rummaged through the weapons and steles, reaching out to Cristina with a pair of slim throwing knives. "Need these?" Cristina slipped the strap of her dress aside. Clipped to her bra was one of her butterfly knives, the etched rose gleaming on the handle. "I came prepared." "I didn't." Mark reached out to take the two sheathed knives, and unbuttoned his jacket to slide them into his belt. He reached up to his throat, touching the arrowhead that hung around his neck. Arrested, Julian watched him. His blue-green eyes were dark, uncertain. Emma could read the look on his face: He didn't know if his brother was ready to go into potential danger. Didn't like it. Didn't see another way. "Okay," Julian said. "Weapons hidden, any runes you want to put on now, put them in places no one will see them. Permanent runes, check to make sure they're covered up. We can't risk running into a situation where we'll be recognized by anyone with the Sight." Emma nodded. They'd already put concealing makeup on her Voyance and parabatai runes back at the Institute. She'd even done what she could to cover up the small scars that showed where runes had been and then vanished. Some runes were permanent and some temporary. Voyance, which looked like an open eye and helped you see through glamours, was permanent. So were wedding and parabatai runes. Temporary runes disappeared slowly as they were used up--healing iratzes, for instance, vanished with varying speed depending on the seriousness of the wound. A Sure-Footedness rune might last the duration of a climb up a mountain. To get the absolute best results, when going into battle, a rune ought to be as new as possible. Jules rolled his sleeve up and held his arm out to Emma. "The honors?" he said. She took a stele from the trunk and ran it over his bare forearm. Sure- Strike, Swiftness, and Courage. When she was done, she lifted her hair and turned, offering her bare back to Julian. "If you put the runes between my shoulder blades, my hair should cover them," she said. Julian didn't say anything. She felt him hesitate, and then the lightest touch of his hand on her back, steadying her. He was breathing quickly. Nerves, she thought. It was a strange situation they were walking into, and he was worried for Mark. He started on the second rune, and Emma felt a slight biting sting as the stele moved. She frowned. Usually, though runes could sting or burn when applied, runes placed on you by your parabatai didn't hurt. In fact they were almost pleasant--it was like being wrapped in the protection of friendship, the sense that someone else had sealed their dedication to you onto your skin. Strange for it to hurt. Julian finished, stepping back, and Emma let her hair fall. She turned and drew a quick Agility rune on Cristina's shoulder, under the strap of her dress. Then she looked at Mark. He shook his head, just as he had every time a rune had been offered to him before. "No runes," he said tightly. "It's fine," Julian said before anyone else could speak. "He doesn't have Marks on him, besides the Voyance, and that's covered in makeup. He looks normal." "Normal-ish," said Emma. "His ears and his eyes--" Cristina stepped forward and reached up to muss Mark's hair, spilling the curls down to cover his pointed ears. "There's nothing we can do about the eyes, but--" "Mundanes have heterochromia too," said Jules. "The main thing is, Mark, try to act normal." Mark looked affronted. "Do I ever not?" No one answered that, not even Cristina. After sliding a pair of daggers into the shoulder harness under his shirt, Julian slammed the trunk closed, and they headed across the street. The doors of the theater were thrown open. Light spilled out onto the dark pavement. Emma could hear laughter and music, smell the mingled scents of perfume and wine and smoke. At the door a young woman in a slinky red dress was taking tickets and stamping hands. Her hair was done up in forties-style Victory roll curls, and her lips were blood red. She wore ivory satin gloves that reached her elbows. Emma recognized her immediately. She'd seen her at the Shadow Market, winking at Johnny Rook. "I've seen her before," she whispered to Jules. "Shadow Market." He nodded and tucked his hand around Emma's. She jolted slightly, both at the sudden heat around her palm and in surprise. She glanced over at him, saw the look on his face as he smiled at the familiar-looking ticket girl. A little bored, a little arrogant, a lot entitled. Someone who wasn't worried about getting inside at all. He was playing a role, and taking her hand was part of it, that was all there was to it. He held out their ticket. "Mr. Smith, plus three guests," he said. There was a slight commotion behind them as Mark opened his mouth, doubtless to ask who Mr. Smith was, and Cristina stomped on his foot. The ticket girl smiled, her red lips curving up into a bow, and slowly tore the ticket in half. If she recognized Emma, she didn't show it. "Mr. Smith," she said. "Hold out your hand." Julian offered his free hand, and the ticket girl stamped it with red-black ink. The stamp was an odd little symbol, lines of water underneath a flame. "The performance is running a bit late tonight. You'll find your row and seat numbers have appeared on your ticket. Please don't sit in anyone else's seat." Her gaze went to Mark--a sharp, intent, assessing gaze. "And welcome," she said. "I believe you will find the Followers a . . . sympathetic group." Mark looked baffled. Hands stamped and ticket torn, the four of them trailed into the theater. The moment they crossed the threshold, the music rose to deafening levels, and Emma recognized it as the kind of big-band jazz ensemble her father had loved. Just because I play the violin doesn't mean I don't like dancing, she remembered him saying, swinging her mother into an impromptu fox-trot in the kitchen. Julian turned to her. "What is it?" he asked gently. Emma wished he couldn't read her moods quite so perfectly. She glanced away to hide her expression. Mark and Cristina were behind them, looking around. There was a concession stand, selling popcorn and candy. A sign reading dance hall/theater hung over the stand, pointing left. People in fancy dress were moving excitedly down the hallway. "Nothing. We should go that way," Emma said, and tugged on Julian's hand. "Follow the crowd." "Hell of a crowd," he muttered. He wasn't wrong. Emma didn't think she'd seen so many expensively dressed people in one place before. "It's like walking into a noir film." Everywhere were beautiful people, the kind of Hollywood beautiful Emma was used to seeing around Los Angeles: people who had access to gyms and tanning salons and expensive hairdressers and the best clothes. Here they looked as if they'd dressed as extras for a Rat Pack movie. Silk dresses and seamed stockings, fedoras and skinny ties and peaked lapels. Apparently Julian's Sy Devore suit had been a presciently smart choice. The room was elegant, with a pressed copper ceiling, arched windows, and closed doors marked theater left and theater right. A rug had been rolled back for dancing, and couples were swirling together to the sound of a band playing on a raised stage at the end of the room. Thanks to her father's tutelage, she recognized trombones and trumpets, drums and piano, an upright bass and--no special knowledge needed there--a piano. There was a clarinet player too, who took his lips away from the instrument long enough to grin at Emma as she came into the room. He had auburn curls, and there was something odd about his eyes. "He is faerie," Mark said, his voice suddenly tight. "At least in part." Oh. Emma shot a second look around the room, gaze sweeping over the dancers. She had dismissed them as mundanes, but . . . glancing through the crowd, she saw a pointed ear there, a flash of orange eyes or taloned fingernails here. W-H-A-T IS I-T? Jules wrote on her back, his fingertips warm through the thin material of her dress. "They're all something," Emma said. She remembered the sign at the Shadow Market, part supernatural? you're not alone. "Good thing we covered our runes. They've all got the Sight, they've all got some kind of magic." "The musicians are half-gentry Fair Folk," said Mark, "which is not surprising, for there is nothing the shining ones value more than music. But there are others here whose blood is mixed with those of merfolk, and some who are weres." "Come on, newbies!" the auburn-haired clarinetist shouted, and a sudden spotlight shone down on the Shadowhunters. "Get into the swing of things!" When Emma looked at him blankly, he wiggled his eyebrows, and she realized what was strange about his eyes. They were like a goat's, with square black pupils. "Dance.'" he shouted, and the others in the room whooped and clapped. The glare of the moving spotlight rendered Julian's face a white blur as he reached for Cristina and pulled her into the crowd. Emma's heart gave a slow, heavy thump. She pushed the feeling down, turned to Mark, and held her hands out to him. "Dance?" "I don't know how." There was something in his expression, half puzzlement and half anxiety, that sent a twinge of sympathy through Emma's heart. He took her hands uncertainly. "Faerie dances are--not like this." Emma drew him toward the crowd. His fingers in hers were slim and cold, not like Jules's warm clasp. "It's all right. I'll lead." They moved in among the dancers. Emma led, trying to remember what she'd seen in movies where there was dancing like this. Despite her promise to lead, she wondered if she'd be better off leaving Mark in charge. He had incredible grace, while all her years of fight training made her want to lunge and spin kick more than twirl and shuffle. Emma glanced over at a girl with short, bright green hair. "Can you tell what everyone is?" she asked Mark. He blinked, his pale lashes scattering light. "She's part dryad," he said. "Wood faerie. Probably not as much as half. Faerie blood can show up generations later. Most humans who have the Sight have faerie blood years back." "What about the musicians?" Mark swung Emma in a turn. He'd started to lead, instinctively. There was something forlorn about the music, Emma thought, as if it were drifting down from a high, distant place. "The clarinetist is part satyr. The bassist with the pale blue skin, some kind of merfolk. Kieran's mother was a nixie, a water faerie, and--" He broke off. Emma could see Jules and Cristina, her hot pink dress startling against the black of his suit. He twirled her. Emma bit the inside of her lip. "Kieran? That gentry prince who came with you to the Institute?" Mark was sharp-boned light and shadows in the moving illumination. The air smelled like incense--like the cheap sweet stuff they burned on the Venice boardwalks. "We were friends in the Wild Hunt." "Well, he could have been less of a jerk to you, then," Emma muttered. "I don't think he could have, actually." Mark smiled, and Emma could see where the human in him mixed with the fey--faeries, in her experience, never smiled with such openness. She made a face. "Was there anything about the Hunt that wasn't awful? Was any of it, I don't know, fun?" "Parts." He laughed and spun her. There was that edge of fey again, the wildness of it. She paced back, slowing the dance. "What parts?" He whirled her in a circle. "I'm not supposed to talk about it. It's a geas." Emma exhaled. "Like if you told me, then you'd have to kill me?" "Why would I kill you?" Mark sounded honestly bewildered. She tipped her head back and smiled at him. Sometimes talking to him was like talking to Ty, she thought. She found herself making jokes she thought were obvious and then realizing they weren't obvious at all unless you understood the subtle codes of social interaction. She didn't know how she'd learned them, just that she had, and Ty still struggled with them, and so, it seemed, did Mark. Trying to look at the world through Ty's eyes, Julian had said once, was like looking into a kaleidoscope, shaking it up, and then looking again. You saw all the same glimmering crystals, just in a different formation. "The Wild Hunt was freedom," Mark said. "And freedom is necessary." In Mark's eyes Emma could see a wilderness of stars and treetops, the fierce shine of glaciers, all the glittering detritus of the roof of the world. It made her think of riding that motorcycle over the ocean. Of the freedom to be wild and untrammeled. Of the ache she felt in her soul sometimes to be connected to nothing, answerable to nothing, bound by nothing. "Mark--" she began. Mark's expression changed; he was looking past her suddenly, his hand tightening on hers. Emma glanced where he was looking but saw only the cloakroom. A bored-looking coat-check girl perched on the counter, smoking a cigarette out of a silver holder. "Mark?" Emma turned back to him, but he was already moving away from her, vaulting over the counter of the coat-check station--much to the bored girl's amusement--and vanishing. Emma was about to follow him when Cristina and Julian swung into her line of sight, blocking her. "Mark ran off," Emma announced. "Yeah, he's not exactly a team player yet," said Julian. He was ruffled from dancing, his cheeks flushed. Cristina didn't have a hair out of place. "Look, I'll go after him, and you two dance--" "If I might cut in?" A tall young man appeared in front of them. He looked like he was probably about twenty-five, nattily dressed in a herringbone suit and matching fedora. His hair was bleached blond and he wore expensive-looking shoes with red soles that flashed fire as he walked. A gaudy pink cocktail ring glittered on his middle finger. His gaze was fixed on Cristina. "Would you like to dance?" "If you don't mind," Julian said, his voice easy, polite, reaching to put a hand on Cristina's arm. "My girlfriend and I, we're . . ." The man's friendly expression changed--infinitesimally, but Emma could see it, a tautness behind his eyes that made Julian's words trail off. "And if you don't mind," he said, "I think you may have failed to notice I'm a Blue." He tapped his pocket, where an invitation that matched the one they'd found in Ava's purse was folded--matched it, except for being a pale shade of blue. He rolled his eyes at their puzzled expressions. "Newbies," he muttered, and there was an undercurrent of something unpleasant--almost scornful-- in his dark eyes. "Of course." Cristina shot a quick look at Julian and Emma, and then turned back to the stranger with a smile. "We're so sorry to have misunderstood." Julian's face was grim as Cristina headed onto the dance floor with the man who'd called himself a Blue. Emma sympathized. She comforted herself with the knowledge that if he tried anything on the dance floor, Cristina would fillet him with her butterfly knife. "We'd better dance too," said Julian. "Looks like it's the only way not to be noticed." We've already been noticed, Emma thought. It was true: Though no fuss had been made over their arrival, plenty of people in the crowd were casting them sideways glances. There were quite a few of the Followers who looked entirely human--and indeed, Emma wasn't totally clear on their policy regarding mundanes--but as newcomers, she imagined they were still objects of attention. Certainly the behavior of the clarinetist had indicated as much. She took Julian's hand and they moved into the outside of the crowd, toward the end of the room, where the shadows were deeper. "Half faeries, ifrits, weres," Emma murmured, taking Julian's other hand so that they faced each other. He looked more ruffled than he had before, his cheeks flushed. She couldn't blame him for being unsettled. In most crowds, their runes, if discovered, would mean nothing. She had the feeling this crowd was different. "Why are they all here?" "It isn't easy, having the Sight, if you don't know others who do," Julian said in a low voice. "You see things nobody else sees. You can't talk about it because no one will understand. You have to keep secrets, and secrets--they break you apart. Cut you open. Make you vulnerable." The low timbre of his voice shuddered down through Emma's bones. There was something in it that frightened her. Something that reminded her of the glaciers in Mark's eyes, distant and lonely. "Jules," she said. Muttering something like "never mind," he spun her away, then pulled her back toward him. Years of practicing fighting together made them an almost perfect dancing team, she realized with surprise. They could predict each other's movements, glide with each other's bodies. She could tell which way Julian would step by the cadence of his breath and the faint tightening of his fingers around hers. Julian's dark curls were wildly tousled, and when he drew her near him, she could smell the clove spice of his cologne, the faint scent of paint underneath. The song ended. Emma looked up and over at the band; the clarinetist was watching her and Julian. Unexpectedly, he winked. The band struck up again, this time a slower, softer number. Couples moved together as if magnetized, arms wrapping around necks, hands resting on hips, heads leaning together. Julian had frozen. Emma, her hands still in his, stood stock-still, not moving, not breathing. The moment stretched out, interminable. Julian's eyes searched hers; whatever he saw there seemed to decide him. His arms came up around her and he pulled her close. Her chin hit his shoulder, awkwardly. It was the first awkward thing they'd done together. She felt him inhale, a hitching breath against her. His hands splayed, warm, under her shoulder blades. She turned her head. She could hear his heartbeat, swift and furious, under her ear, feel the hardness of his chest. She reached up to loop her arms around his neck. There was enough of a height difference between them that when she locked her fingers, they tangled in the hair at his nape. A shiver went through her. She'd touched Julian's hair before, of course, but it was so soft there, there at the vulnerable space just under the fall of loose curls. And the skin was soft too. She stroked downward with her fingers, reflexively, and felt at the same time the top bump of his spine and his swiftly inhaled breath. She looked up at him. His face was white, eyes cast down, dark lashes feathered against his cheekbones. He was biting his bottom lip, the way he always did when he was nervous. She could see the dents his teeth made in the soft skin. If she kissed him, would he taste like blood or cloves or a mixture of the two? Sweet and spicy? Bitter and hot? She made herself shove the thought down. He was her parabatai. He wasn't for kissing. He was-- His left hand moved down over her back to her waist, sliding around to lightly cup her hip. Her body jolted. She'd heard of people having butterflies in their stomachs, and she knew what they meant: that flapping, uneasy feeling deep in your gut. But she had it now everywhere. Butterflies under all of her skin, fluttering, sending shivers that moved in waves up and down her body. She began to trace her finger over his wrist, meaning to write on him: J-U-L-l-A-N, W-H-A-TA-R-E Y-O-U D-O-l-N-G? But he didn't seem to notice. For the first time, he wasn't hearing their secret language. She stopped, stared up at him; his eyes when they met hers were unfocused, dreamy. His right hand was in her hair, winding it through his fingers. She felt the sensations as if each individual hair were a live wire connected to one of her nerve endings. "When you came down the stairs tonight," he said, his voice thick and low, "I was thinking about painting you. Painting your hair. That I'd have to use titanium white to get the color right, the way it catches light and almost glows. But that wouldn't work, would it? It's not all one color, your hair, it's not just gold: It's amber and tawny and caramel and wheat and honey." Normal Emma would have made a joke. You make it sound like a breakfast cereal. Normal Emma and Normal Julian would have laughed. But this wasn't Normal Julian; this was a Julian she'd never seen, a Julian with his expression stripped down to the elegant bones of his face. She felt a wave of desperate wanting, lost in the way his eyes looked, in the curves of his cheekbones and jaw, the unexpected softness of his mouth. "But you never paint me," she whispered. He didn't answer. He looked agonized. His pulse was pounding triple time. She could see it in his throat. His arms were locked in place; she sensed he needed to hold her where she was, not let her come an inch closer. The space between them was heated, electric. His fingers curled around her hip. His other hand slid down her back, slowly, gliding along her hair until he reached bare skin where the back of the dress dipped down. He closed his eyes. They had stopped dancing. They were standing still, Emma barely breathing, Julian's hands moving over her. Julian had touched her a thousand times: while they trained, while they fought or tended each other's wounds. He had never touched her like this. He seemed like someone under a spell. Someone who knew he was under a spell, and was fighting against the pull of it with every nerve and fiber, the percussion of a terrible internal struggle pounding through his veins. She could feel his pulse through his hands, against the bare skin of her back. She moved toward him, just a little, barely an inch. He gasped. His chest expanded against hers, brushing the swell of her breasts through the thin material of her dress. The sensation whipped through her like electricity. She couldn't think. "Emma," he said in a choked voice. His hands contracted, sharply, as if he'd been stabbed. He was pulling her. Toward him. Her body slammed up against his. The crowd was a blur of light and color around them. His head lowered toward hers. They breathed the same breath. There was a clash of cymbals: shattering, deafening. They broke apart as the doors of the theater were thrown open, the room flooding with bright light. The music stopped. A loudspeaker crackled to life. "Will the audience please enter the theater," said a sultry female voice. "The performance of the Lottery is about to begin." Cristina had broken away from the man in the herringbone suit and was making her way toward them, face flushed. Emma's heart was pounding. She chanced a look up at Julian. For the briefest of moments he looked like someone who'd been staggering through the Mojave Desert, half-dead from sun, and had seen a glimmer of water up ahead only to have it turn out to be a mirage. "Still no Mark?" Emma said hastily as Cristina reached them. Not that there was a real reason Cristina would know where Mark was; Emma just didn't want her looking at Julian. Not when he looked like that. Cristina shook her head. "We'd better go in, then," Julian said. His voice was normal, his expression smoothing itself into normalcy. "Mark'll catch up." Emma couldn't help but look at him in surprise. She'd always known Julian was a decent actor--Shadowhunters had to lie and play parts all the time--but it was as if she'd imagined the expression she'd seen on his face a second ago. As if she'd imagined the last ten minutes. As if none of it had happened at all. <|title|>Chapter 15: The Angels Not Half So Happy <|startofchapter|>"What are you doing here?" Mark hissed into the darkness. He was standing in the coat closet, surrounded by racks of expensive clothes. The temperature dropped in Los Angeles at night, even in the summer, but the coats were light: linen and seersucker men's jackets, silk and gossamer women's wraps. There was very little light, but Mark didn't fight it when a pale hand reached out from behind a leather trenchcoat and yanked him through a coatrack. Kieran. His hair was the darkest of dark blues today, almost black, the color of waves during a roiling storm. Which meant he was in a vile mood. His silver-black eyes glowed in the darkness. "How else am I supposed to see you?" he demanded, shoving Mark up against the wall. There was little space behind the coats; it was close and hot. Mark felt himself gasp, and not just from the force of the wall hitting his back. Rage was rolling off Kieran in waves that he could feel; they twisted inside him, deep down in a place where the cold waters of Faerie had once chilled his heart. "I cannot enter the Institute, save the Sanctuary, and I would be killed if I was found there. Am I meant to spend every night waiting in the desert shadows in the hopes that you might deign to visit me?" "No," Mark said, even as Kieran pressed him farther back, his knee wedging itself between Mark's legs. His words were furious but his hands on Mark's body were familiar: thin, cool fingers working the buttons of his shirt, slipping between them to brush his skin. "We're supposed to stay away from each other until this is over." Kieran's eyes blazed. "And then what? You will come back to the Hunt voluntarily, for me? You think me such a fool. You have always hated it." "But I did not hate you," Mark said. The coatroom smelled like a million perfumes mixed together: colognes that clung to coats and jackets tickling his nose. They were synthetic smells, not real: false tuberose, false jasmine, false lavender. Nothing in the mundane world was real. But then, was anything in Faerie any realer? "Did not hate me?" Kieran said in a cold voice. "What an honor. How complimented I am. Do you even miss me?" "I miss you," said Mark. "And am I meant to believe that? Remember, half blood, I know well that you can lie." Mark flicked his eyes up to Kieran's. He saw the storm in those eyes, but behind the storm he saw two boys as small as stars in a distant sky, locked together under a blanket. They were the same height; he had only to reach across slightly and press his mouth to Kieran's. The faerie prince stiffened against him. He didn't move, hesitant rather than unresponsive. Mark's hands came up to cradle Kieran's face, and then Kieran did move, pressing forward to kiss Mark with an intensity that sent Mark's head flying back against the wall. Kieran tasted of blood and cold night sky and for a moment Mark was flying free with the Hunt. The night sky was his road to conquer. He rode a silver- white horse made of moonlight down a path of stars. Surrounded by shouts and laughter and cries, he cut a path through the night that opened the world to his searching eyes; he saw places no human gaze had seen, hidden waterfalls and secret valleys. He stopped to rest on the peaks of icebergs and galloped his horse down the foam of waterfalls, the white arms of water nymphs reaching up to catch at him. He lay with Kieran in the grass of a high Alpine meadow, hand in hand, and counted a thousand billion stars. Kieran was the first to break away. Mark's breath was coming hard. "Was there a lie in that kiss?" "No. But--" Kieran looked wondering. "Are those stars in your eyes for me or for the Hunt?" "The Hunt was pain and glory," said Mark. "But you were what made me able to see the glory and not only the pain." "That girl," Kieran said. "You came back with her the other night, on my steed." Mark realized with a jolt that he meant Cristina. "I thought perhaps you loved her." His eyes were lowered. His hair had lightened to a silvery blue, the ocean after a storm. Mark remembered that Kieran was no older than he was; though an ageless faerie, he had lived less than twenty years. And he knew even less than Mark did about humans. "I don't think one falls in love that quickly," said Mark. "I like her." "You cannot give her your heart," said Kieran, "though you may do whatever else you like with her." Mark had to stifle a laugh. Kieran, showing his own sort of kindness. Faeries believed in promises over fidelity of body or heart. One made a promise to one's beloved, and one abided by that promise. Demanding a promise of physical fidelity was rare, but one could absolutely demand fidelity of the heart, and faeries usually did. The punishment for breaking a promise of love was severe. "She is the daughter of an old family," he said. "A sort of princess. I don't think she would look at me twice." "She looked at you several times while you were dancing with the blond girl." Mark blinked. Partly in surprise that he had so quickly forgotten how literal faeries were. And partly in surprise that he himself had remembered such a human expression and used it so unconsciously. It was pointless to try to explain to Kieran all the ways that Cristina would never want him. She was too kind to show her revulsion at his faerie blood, but revolted he was sure she must be, under the surface. Instead he tucked his hands into the waistband of Kieran's breeches and pulled the other boy toward him to take another kiss, and with it memories of the Hunt like sweet wine. Their kisses were hot, tangled. Two boys under a blanket, trying not to make noise, not to wake the others. Kissing to blot out the memories, kissing away the blood and dirt, kissing away the tears. Mark's hands made their way under Kieran's shirt, tracing the lines of scars on his back. There, they were matched in pain, though at least those who had whipped Mark were not his own family. Kieran's hands slipped ineffectually on Mark's pearl buttons. "These mundane clothes,'' he said between his teeth. "I hate them." "Then take them off me," Mark murmured, forgetful and dazed and lost in the Hunt. His hands were on Kieran but in his mind he was spinning through the northern lights, the sky painted blue and green like the heart of the ocean. Like Blackthorn eyes. "No." Kieran smiled and stepped back. He was rumpled, his shirt gaping open at the front. Wanting beat through Mark's blood, to lose himself in Kieran and forget. "You told me once humans want what they cannot have. And you are half-human." "We want what we cannot have," Mark said. "But we love what shows us kindness." "I will take wanting, for now," said Kieran, and placed his hand over the necklace at Mark's throat. "And the memory of my gift to you." Elf-bolts took a great deal of magic to make and were very valuable. Kieran had given it to him not long after he joined the Wild Hunt, and had strung the point on a chain so Mark could wear it near his heart. "Shoot straight and true," said Kieran. "Find the killer, and then come back to me." "But my family," Mark said, his hand closing reflexively over Kieran's. "Kier, you must--" "Come back to me," Kieran repeated. He kissed Mark's closed hand, once, and ducked out through the dangling coats. Though Mark scrambled after him immediately, he was already gone. The interior of the theater was gorgeous, a romantic ode to the glory days of cinema's golden age. A curved ceiling split into eights by gold-painted beams, each segment painted with a scene from a classic film, done in baroque jewel tones: Emma recognized Gone with the Wind and Casablanca, but not others--a man carrying another man across burning golden sands, a girl kneeling at the feet of a boy holding a gun across his shoulders, a woman whose white dress blew up around her like the petals of an orchid. A heavy sweet scent hung in the air as people hurried to take their seats in the semicircular space. The seats were upholstered in purple velvet, each with a gold M embroidered across the back. As the ticket girl had promised, their ticket now had their row and seat numbers printed on it. They found them and filed in, Cristina first, then Emma, then Julian. He sat down beside Emma. "Waiting for Midnight?" she said, pointing at the seat backs. "Probably," he said, and went back to looking at the stage. The curtains were drawn back and a massive painting of an ocean view covered the back wall. The stage itself was bare, the floor gleaming polished boards. Emma felt flushed. Julian's voice had been calm, neutral. But the expression on his face only a few minutes ago flashed across her vision anyway: the way he'd looked when he held her on the dance floor, that naked look in his eyes, all pretense stripped away. That glimpse had shown her an intent and agonized Julian she'd never known. A hidden face she'd never seen, that she didn't think anyone had ever seen. She felt Cristina shift beside her and turned with quick guilt: She'd been so caught up in her own bewilderment that she'd forgotten to ask Cristina why she'd looked so flustered. Cristina was glaring across the theater. Her eyes were glued to the man in the herringbone suit. He was seating himself next to an elegant blond woman in a silver dress and high heels. "Ugh," Cristina said. "I practically had to peel him off me. What a pervert. My mother would just have stabbed him." "Do you want us to kill him?" Emma suggested, only half-joking. "We could kill him, after the show." "That would be a waste of our energy," Cristina said dismissively. "I'll tell you what I found out: He is a half werewolf. And he's been a member of the Followers, that's what he called them, for six months now. That's what he meant by being a Blue." "The fact that he's been a Follower for a long time, or the fact that he's part lycanthrope?" Julian asked. "Both, I think," Cristina said. "He went to great pains to tell me all about what it meant to be part werewolf. How he's stronger and faster than a human. He says he could kick through a brick wall." She rolled her eyes. "I don't even get it," said Emma. "How do you wind up being half- werewolf?" "It means you have the werewolf virus, but it's dormant," said Jules. "You can pass it on, but you can't Turn yourself. You'll never change into a wolf, but you do have increased speed and strength." "He said they all have increased speed and strength," said Cristina. "Every time they hold a Lottery, he said, the Followers all get stronger." "Sympathetic magic," Julian said. Suddenly there was a commotion in their row. "Am I late?" It was Mark, seeming flustered, tumbling into the seat beside Julian. His fair hair looked as if he'd been standing in front of a wind machine. "Sorry, I got distracted." Julian looked at him for a long moment. "Don't tell me," he said finally. "I don't want to know." Mark looked surprised. "You don't?" he said. "I would." "I do," chimed in Emma, but before Mark could say anything, the lights in the theater dimmed. Silence fell instantly--not the slow hushing of voices Emma would have expected, but an abrupt, unnatural cessation of noise. A shiver passed up the back of her neck just as a single spotlight lit up the stage. The band had gathered in the orchestra pit. They began to play a quiet melody, almost mournful, as a black-velvet-draped object was wheeled out onto the stage by two uniformed men. The music faded, and there was the tap-tap of high heels; a moment later the woman who had been taking tickets at the door appeared. She had changed and was wearing a gorgeous full- length dress of black and dark blue lace that looked like foam on the ocean. Even at a distance Emma could see the dark kohl liner ringing her eyes. The woman reached out a hand, the nails painted viper red, and seized hold of the black velvet, tearing it aside and hurling it dramatically to the floor. Revealed underneath was a machine. A large transparent drum sat atop a metal plinth; inside the glass were hundreds of colored, numbered balls. A metal chute stuck out from the machine, and in front of the chute was a tray. "Ladies and gentlemen," said the woman onstage. "I'm Belinda Belle." " 'Belinda Belle'?" Julian whispered. "Made-up name." "You're a genius detective," Emma whispered back. "Genius." He made a face at her, and Emma felt a wave of relief. This was her and Julian, making faces at each other, making each other laugh. That was normal. The woman on the stage continued, "Welcome to the Lottery." The room was silent. Belinda smiled, resting her hand on the device, perfectly still. "A lottery machine," murmured Julian. "That's literal." "The Guardian could not be with us tonight," said Belinda. "Security has required tightening. The last hunt was interrupted by Nephilim, and the value of the sacrifice was endangered." There was a low hum. A jolt went through Emma. Nephilim. The woman had said "Nephilim." These people knew about Shadowhunters. It wasn't a surprise so much as a confirmation of what Emma had suspected all along. There was something going on here, something that reached its threaded tendrils into Downworld and clawed at the roots of everything they knew. "The sacrifice?" Emma whispered. "Does she mean human sacrifice?" S-H-H-H, Julian wrote on her arm. She saw with a pang as his fingers touched her skin that his nails were bitten down to the quick. The music picked up. Onstage, Belinda pressed a button on the side of the machine. The metal arms whirred to life. The balls spun around inside the globe, becoming a blur of color like the inside of a kaleidoscope. Turn, and turn, and turn. Emma on the beach, her dad's arm around her. Kaleidoscopes are like magic, Emma. No two people who look into them ever see the same thing. Emma's heart ached with memory. The machine whirred more quickly, then more quickly still, and spit out a red ball. It shot down the chute and fell into the tray. Belinda picked it up delicately. A tense stillness had fallen over the crowd. It was the stillness of cats poised to spring. "Blue," she said, her voice ringing in the silence. "Blue 304." The moment hung, frozen and suspended. It was broken by a man rising to his feet. He moved warily, like a statue brought to sudden and reluctant life. It was the man Cristina had danced with, the one in the herringbone suit. He was very pale now, and the woman in the silver dress was edging away from him. "Mr. Sterling," said Belinda, and let the ball fall back into the tray with a clink. "The Lottery has chosen you." Emma couldn't help but look around, trying not to seem as if she was staring. The audience sat stonily, most expressionless. Some wore looks of relief. The man in the herringbone suit--Sterling--seemed dazed, as if he'd been punched in the solar plexus and was about to gasp in air. "You know the rules," Belinda said. "Mr. Sterling has two days of freedom before the hunt begins. No one may help him. No one may interfere with the hunt." Her eyes searched the audience. "May Those Who Are Older grant us all good fortune." The music started up again. Everyone began to rise to their feet, the room filling with the buzz of low conversation. Emma was on her feet like a shot, but Julian's hand closed around her arm before she could bolt out of the room. He was smiling; it looked clearly fake to her but would probably convince anyone who didn't know him. "They're going to kill him," Emma whispered urgently. "Everything she said--the hunt--' "We don't know that," Julian said without moving his lips. "Emma is right," Mark said. They were hurrying forward, pushed toward the exits by the mass of the crowd. The band was playing "As Time Goes By" from Casablanca, the sweet melody completely incongruous with the sense of anxiety whipping through the room. "A hunt means death." "We have to offer him help," Cristina said. Her tone was flat. "Even if he is a pervert," Emma confirmed. "It's what we do--" "You heard the rules," Jules said. "No interfering." Emma spun around, stopping dead. Her eyes met Julian's. "Those rules," she said, and took his hand, her fingers moving over his skin. T- H-E-Y D-O-N-TA-P-P-L-Y T-O US. Darkness blossomed in the blue-green irises she knew so well: an admission of defeat. "Go," he said. "Take Cristina." Emma caught Cristina's hand and the two of them were shoving through the crowd, Emma using her elbows and boots--stomping viciously on several feet--to push past the other theatergoers. They reached the central aisle. She was aware of Cristina asking her in a hissed whisper how they were going to find Mark and Julian again. "At the car," said Emma. She saw Cristina's puzzled look but didn't bother saying that she knew the plan the way she always knew Julian's plans. She knew them because she knew him. "There he is." Cristina pointed with her free hand. They had made it to the lobby. Emma followed her indication and saw a flash of the red soles of shoes. Mr. Sterling, slipping out the door. The woman he'd come with was nowhere to be seen. They bolted after him, darting around the crowd. Emma crashed into a girl with rainbow-dyed hair who made a surprised "Oof!" sound. "Sorry!" Emma yelled just as she and Cristina escaped through the small circle of people standing around the theater entrance. The Hollywood sign twinkled, brilliant, above them. Where the street curved, Emma could see Sterling disappearing around a corner. Emma broke into a flat-out run, Cristina on her heels. This was why she ran every day on the beach. So she could fly over pavement without feeling it, so that her breath didn't catch and running felt like flying. Cristina was just behind her. Her dark hair had come down out of its careful bun and flew behind her like a dark flag. They turned the corner. They were on a side street; bungalow houses lined the road, most of their windows dark. Sterling was standing just beside a massive, expensive-looking silver Jeep, his hand still on the remote key. He stared at them in total astonishment as they skidded to a halt in front of him. "What--?" he sputtered. Up close it was possible to see how shaken he looked. He was pale and sweating, his throat working convulsively. "What are you doing?" His eyes flashed yellow-green in the light from the streetlamps. Half- werewolf he might be, Emma thought, but he looked like a scared mundane. "We can help you," she said. His throat worked again. "What are you talking about?" he demanded, so savagely that Emma heard a snicking sound to her left and realized Cristina had flipped open her butterfly knife. She hadn't moved, but it shone in her hand, a silent threat should Sterling take one step toward Emma. "The Lottery," Emma said. "You got picked." "Yeah, I know. You think I don't know?" Sterling snarled. "You shouldn't even be talking to me." He ran his hands through his hair distractedly. His key ring fell from his grip and rattled to the ground. Emma took a step forward, reaching for it. She held it out to him. "No!" he shouted hoarsely and skittered backward, like a crab. "Don't touch me! Don't come near me!" Emma tossed the keys at his feet and held her hands up, palms open. She was aware of where all her own weapons were, the daggers in her boots, under the hem of her dress. She missed Cortana, though. "We don't want to hurt you," she said. "We want to help, that's all." He bent down and warily grabbed his keys. "You can't help me. No one can help me." "Your lack of trust is very hurtful," said Emma. "You have no idea what's going on here." He laughed a sharp, unnatural laugh. "Don't you get it? No one can help me, especially not some stupid kids --" He paused then, looking at Emma. At her arm, specifically. She glanced down and cursed under her breath. The makeup that covered her parabatai rune was smeared--probably from when she had bumped into that girl in the lobby--and the Mark was clearly visible. Sterling looked the opposite of thrilled. "Nephilim," he snarled. "Jesus, just what I need." "We know Belinda said not to interfere," Emma began hastily. "But since we are Nephilim--" "That's not even her name." He spat into the gutter. "You don't know anything, do you? Goddamn Shadowhunters, thinking they're the kings of Downworld, messing everything up. Belinda should never have allowed you in." "You could be a little more polite." Emma felt an edge creep into her voice. "Considering we're trying to help you. And that you felt Cristina up." "I didn't," he said, his eyes flicking between them. "You did," Cristina said. "It was very disgusting." "Then why are you trying to help me?" Sterling asked. "Because nobody deserves to die," Emma said. "And to be honest, there're things we want to know. What's the point of the Lottery? How does it make you all stronger?" He stared at them, shaking his head. "You're insane." He slammed his thumb down on his key remote; the Jeep's headlights flashed as it unlocked. "Stay away from me. Like Belinda said. No interfering." He jerked the door open and hurled himself into the car. A second later the Jeep was screeching away down the street, leaving black tire marks on the asphalt. Emma expelled a breath. "Kind of hard to stay desperately concerned about his well-being, isn't it?" Cristina looked after the Jeep. "It is a test," she said. Her knife had disappeared, slipped back under her collar. "The Angel would say we were put here to save not only those we like but also the unpleasant and disagreeable." "You said your mother would have stabbed him." "Yes, well," said Cristina. "We don't always agree about everything." Before Emma could reply, the Institute's Toyota pulled up in front of them. Mark leaned out the back window. Even with everything that was happening, Emma felt a spark of happiness that Jules had saved the seat next to him for her. "Your chariot, fair ones," Mark said. "Enter and hie we away before we are followed." "Was that English?" Cristina demanded, climbing in beside him. Emma darted to the car to slide into the front seat. Julian looked over at her. "That looked like a pretty dramatic conversation." The car slid forward, away from the odd street, the peculiar theater. They passed over the tire tracks the Jeep had made on the road. "He didn't want our help," said Emma. "But he's getting it anyway," Julian said. "Isn't he?" "If we can track him down," said Emma. "They could all have been using assumed names." She put her feet up on the dashboard. "It might be worth asking Johnny Rook. Since they were advertising at the Shadow Market and he knows everything that happens there." "Didn't Diana tell you to stay away from Johnny Rook?" said Julian. "Isn't Diana kind of faraway right now?" Emma said sweetly. Julian looked resigned but also amused. "Fine. I trust you. If you think there's a reason, we'll go ask Rook." They were turning onto La Cienega. The lights and clamor and traffic of Los Angeles exploded all around them. Emma clapped her hands. "And that's why I love you." The words slipped out without her thinking. Neither Cristina nor Mark seemed to notice--they were arguing about whether "hie" was a word--but Julian's cheeks turned a dull brick red and his hands tightened on the wheel. When they reached the Institute, a storm was building out over the ocean--a roil of blue-black clouds spiked with lightning. Lights were on inside the building. Cristina began mounting the steps wearily. She was used to late nights of hunting, but something about the experience at the theater had tired her soul. "Cristina." It was Mark, on the step below her. One of the first things Cristina had noticed about the Institute was that depending on which direction the wind was blowing from, it smelled either of ocean water or of the desert. Of sea salt or of sage. Tonight it was sage. The wind blew through Mark's hair: Blackthorn curls bleached of all their color, silvery as the moon on the water. "You dropped these outside the theater," he said, and held out his hand. She looked down and past him for a moment, to where Julian and Emma were standing by the foot of the steps. Julian had pulled the car up and was lifting Cortana out of the trunk. It caught the light and shimmered like Emma's hair. She reached for it, glancing down to run her hand along the scabbarded blade, and Cristina saw Julian glance involuntarily at the curve of her neck. As if he couldn't help it. Cold fear weighted down Cristina's stomach; she felt as if she were watching trains hurtling toward each other on the same track, with no way of stopping either one. "Cristina?" Mark said again, a question rising in his voice. Something glittered in his open palm. Two somethings. The gold earrings that had fallen out while she was running, that she had assumed were lost somewhere on a Los Angeles square of pavement. "Oh!" She took them from him, slipping them into the pocket of her coat. He watched her, his mismatched eyes curious. "They were a gift," she said. "From someone--from an old friend." She remembered Diego putting them into her hand, and there had been nervousness in his dark eyes, a wondering if she would like them. But she had, because he had given them to her. "They're pretty," Mark said. "Especially against your hair. It looks like black silk." Cristina exhaled. Emma was looking up at Julian, smiling. There was uncertainty on her face, uncertainty that cut at Cristina's heart. Emma reminded her of herself, she thought, just before she turned that corner in the garden where she'd heard Jaime and Diego talking. Before everything had fallen apart. "You shouldn't say those sort of things to me," she said to Mark. The wind blew his hair across his face; he pushed it back. "I thought mortal women liked compliments." He sounded honestly puzzled. "Do faerie women like them?" "I don't know many," he said. "The Seelie Queen does enjoy a compliment. But there were no women in the Hunt." "But there was Kieran," she said. "And what would he say if he knew you were telling me I was pretty? Because the way he looks at you . . ." A look of shock passed over Mark's face. He glanced down quickly at Julian, but his brother was absorbed in Emma. "How do you--?" "I saw you," she said. "In the parking lot. And when you disappeared today at the theater, I would guess that was because of him as well?" "Please tell no one, Cristina." The look of fear on his face broke her heart. "They would punish him, and me as well. We both swore we would not reveal our relationship to any Shadowhunters, lest they think I would be too loyal to Faerie and too likely to return to it, and not agree to our bargain. Also, Kieran is forbidden to see me now that I am out of the Hunt." "I will tell no one," said Cristina. "I have not mentioned it, not to Emma, not to anyone." "You are as kind as you are lovely," he said, but the words sounded rehearsed. "I know you think you can't trust mortals. But I will not betray you." There was nothing rehearsed about the look he gave her then. "I meant it when I said you were beautiful. I want you, and Kieran would not mind--" "You want me?" "Yes," Mark said simply, and Cristina looked away, suddenly very aware of how close his body was to hers. Of the shape of his shoulders under his jacket. He was lovely as faeries were lovely, with a sort of unearthliness, as quicksilver as moonlight on water. He didn't seem quite touchable, but she had seen him kiss Kieran and knew better. "You do not want to be wanted?" In another time, the time before, Cristina would have blushed. "It is not the sort of compliment mortal women enjoy." "But why not?" said Mark. "Because it makes it sound like I am a thing you want to use. And when you say Kieran would not mind, you make it sound as if he would not mind because I do not matter." "That is very human," he said. "To be jealous of a body but not a heart." Cristina had studied faeries closely. It was true that unmarried faerie folk, regardless of sexual orientation, placed a very low value on physical fidelity, though a much greater value than humans did on emotional loyalty. There were few if any vows that had to do with sex, but many that had to do with true love. "You see, I do not want a body without a heart," she said. He did not reply, but she could read the look in his eyes. If she said the word, she could have Mark Blackthorn, for some value of having him. It was a strange thing to know, even if she did not want what he offered. But if he were offering more --well, there had been a time she had thought she would never want anyone again. It was good to know that wasn't true. "Is Kieran the reason?" she said. "That you might return to Faerie, even if the killer is caught?" "Kieran saved my life," said Mark. "I was nothing in the Wild Hunt." "You are not nothing. You are the son of the Lady Nerissa." "And Kieran is the son of the King of the Unseelie Court," said Mark flatly. "He did everything for me in the Wild Hunt. Protected me and kept me alive. And he has only me. Julian and the others, they have each other. They do not need me." But he didn't sound convinced. He spoke as if the words were dead leaves, blowing across some hollow and aching space inside him. And in that moment Cristina yearned toward him more than she ever had, for she knew that feeling, to be so hollowed out by loss that you felt as if the wind could blow through you. "That is not love," Cristina said. "That is debt." Mark set his jaw. He had never looked more like a Blackthorn. "If there is one thing I have learned in my life, and I grant I have not learned much, it is this: Neither Fair Folk nor mortals know what love is or is not. No one does." <|title|>Chapter 16: By The Side <|startofchapter|>"So, basically, you kind of solved the investigation," said Livvy. She was lying on the rug in Julian's room. They were all sprawled around his bedroom: Cristina perched neatly on a chair, Ty sitting against a wall with his headphones on, Julian cross-legged on his bed. He'd taken off his jacket and rolled up his sleeves. The cuff links Emma had given him gleamed on the nightstand. Mark lay on his stomach across the foot of the bed, eye to eye with Church, who'd decided to pay them a visit, probably because of the weather. "I mean, now we know who did it. The murders." "Not exactly," said Emma. She was sitting on the floor, leaning her back against the nightstand. "I mean, here's what we do know. This group, these Followers or whatever they call themselves, they're responsible for Stanley Wells's murder. The Followers are mostly people who've had some brush with the supernatural. They have the Sight, they're part faerie--Sterling's sort of a werewolf. Every month they hold a Lottery. Someone gets picked, and that someone becomes a sacrifice." "Wells was a sacrifice," said Julian. "So it stands to reason that the other eleven murders have been because of this cult too." "It also explains the fey bodies," said Cristina. "Since so many of them are half-fey, it makes sense that they've been picked for the sacrifices." Julian glanced at Mark. "Do you think the Courts know if the bodies were half-fey or full-blooded?" "Hard to say," said Mark, still staring at the cat. "They often cannot tell just by looking, and some of the Followers are full-blood faeries." "It seems like full-blood faeries would have better things to do." It was Ty, having pulled the headphones from his ears. Emma could faintly hear classical music drifting from them. "Why would they join something like this?" "It is a place for lost souls," said Mark. "And since the Cold Peace, many of the Fair Folk are lost. It makes sense." "I saw them advertising at the Shadow Market," said Emma. "I saw Belinda there too. They seemed to be specifically looking for anyone with the Sight, anyone who seemed frightened or alone. Having a group to belong to, being promised good luck and wealth, getting strength from the sacrifices--you can see how it would be appealing." "They do seem very confident," Cristina said. "How much do they know about the existence of Nephilim, I wonder?" "Sterling seemed afraid of us," said Emma. "It's weird. He got picked, so that means they're going to sacrifice him. You'd think he'd want any help he could get, even from Shadowhunters." "But getting help is forbidden, right?" said Livvy. "If they caught him accepting it, they could torture him. Do worse than kill him." Cristina shuddered. "Or he could be a true believer. Maybe he thinks it would be a sin to accept help." "Men have gone to their deaths for less," said Mark. "How many of them do you think there were? The Followers?" "About three hundred," said Julian. "Well, if we can't go to the faeries yet, we've got two options," said Emma. "One, we track down every one of those three hundred losers and beat them up until they tell us who did the actual killing." "That seems impractical," said Ty. "And time-consuming." "Or we could go straight to finding out who the leader is," Emma said. "If anyone knows, it's that Belinda girl." Julian ran a hand through his hair. "Belinda's not her real name--" "I'm telling you, Johnny Rook knows her," Emma said. "In fact, he probably knows a lot, given that information about the Shadow World is his business. We're asking him." "Yes, you agreed to this already in the car," Mark said, and frowned. "This cat is looking at me with judgment." "He's not," said Jules. "That's just his face." "You look at me the same way," Mark said, glancing at Julian. "Judgy face." "This is still progress," Livvy said stubbornly. She glanced at Mark sideways, and Emma saw anxiety in her gaze. It was so rare for Livvy to show the worry she felt that Emma sat up straight. "We should go to the faerie convoy, tell them the Followers are responsible--" "We can't," said Diana, appearing in the doorway. "The fey were very specific. The one with blood on his hands.' You might think they want progress reports, but I don't think they do. They want results, and that's all." "How long have you been eavesdropping?" Julian asked, though there was no hostility in the question. He glanced at his watch. "It's awfully late for you to be here." Diana sighed. She did look bone weary. Her hair was untidy and she was uncharacteristically dressed down in a sweatshirt and jeans. There was a long scrape across one of her cheeks. "I went by the convergence on my way back from Ojai," she said. "I got in and out fast. Only had to kill one Mantid." She sighed again. "It doesn't look like anyone's been back there since the night you went. I'm worried our necromancer's found a new place." "Well, if he doesn't use a convergence, the next time he uses dark magic, he'll show up on Magnus's map," said Ty. "Did you find anything useful in Ojai?" Emma asked. "What warlock is up there? It's not anyone we know, is it?" "No." Diana leaned against the doorjamb, clearly not planning on saying anything else. "I did hear about the Followers; I suppose I shouldn't be surprised you were tracking them down here. I wish you'd told me, but--" "You'd already left," said Jules. He leaned back on his hands. His dress shirt stretched across his chest. Knowing what his body looked like under the cotton was not helping Emma's concentration. She looked away, hating her uncontrolled thoughts. "But I can give you the summary." As he started to talk, Emma quietly turned and walked out of the room. She could hear Julian's voice behind her, recounting the events of the evening. She knew he'd tell the story exactly right; she knew she didn't have to worry. But right now there were two people she urgently needed to talk to, and she needed to do it alone. "Mom," Emma whispered. "Dad. I need your help." She had taken off her dress and boots and stashed them in a corner with her weapons. The weather had worsened: Gusts tore around the Institute, rattling the copper gutters, streaking the panes of glass with feathery patterns of silver. In the distance, lightning flashed over the water, illuminating it like a sheet of glass. In her pajamas, Emma sat cross-legged, facing her open closet. To a stranger the closet might look like a jumble of photos and string and scribbled notes, but to her it was a love letter. A love letter to her parents, whose photograph was at the center of the compilation. A photo of them smiling at each other, her dad caught in the middle of laughing, his blond hair shining in the sun. "I feel lost," she said. "I started this because I thought there was some connection between these murders and what happened to you. But if there is, I think I'm losing it. Nothing connects to the attack on the Institute. I feel like I'm wandering through fog and I can't see anything clearly." It felt like there was something stuck in her throat, something hard and painful. Part of her wanted nothing more than to run out into the rain, feel it spill down over her. Walk or run down to the beach, where the sea and the sky would be melding into one, and let her screams be drowned out by thunder. "There's more," she whispered. "I think I'm messing up. As--as a Shadowhunter. Ever since the night Jules got hurt, when I healed him, ever since then when I look at him, I feel--things I shouldn't. I think about him the way you aren't supposed to think about your parabatai. I'm sure he doesn't feel the same way, but just for a few minutes tonight, when we were dancing, I was . . . happy." She closed her eyes. "Love's supposed to make you happy, isn't it? It's not supposed to hurt?" There was a knock on her door. Jules, she thought. She scrambled up just as the door opened. It was Mark. He was still in his formal clothes. They were very dark against his blond hair. Anyone else would have seemed awkward, she thought as he moved into the room and glanced at her closet, then at her. Anyone else would have asked if they were barging in or interrupting, considering she was in pajamas. But Mark behaved as if he'd arrived for an appointment. "The day I was taken," he said. "It was the same day your parents were killed." She nodded, glancing at the closet. Having it open made her feel strangely exposed. "I told you I was sorry about what happened to them," he said. "But that isn't enough. I didn't realize that this investigation would become about me. About my family trying to keep me here. That my presence would be stealing from you the meaning of what you were doing." Emma sat down on the foot of the bed. "Mark . . . It's not like that." "It is like that," he said. His eyes were luminous in the strange light-- her window was open, and the illumination that streamed in was touched by the glow of lightning-infused clouds. "They should not be working on this only to keep me, when I might not stay." "You wouldn't go back to Faerie. You wouldn't." "All that was promised was that I would choose," he said. "I have not--I cannot--" His hands balled into fists at his sides, the frustration clear on his face. "I thought you would understand. You are not a Blackthorn." "I am Julian's parabatai," she said. "And Julian needs you to stay." "Julian is strong," he said. "Julian is strong," she agreed. "But you are his brother. And if you go--I don't know if I can pick up those pieces." His eyes flicked back to her closet. "We survive losses," he whispered. "We do," Emma said. "But my parents didn't leave me on purpose. I don't know what would have happened to me if they had." Thunder cracked, snapping through the room. Mark's hand crept to his throat. "When I hear thunder, see lightning, I think I should be riding through it," he said. "My blood calls out for the sky." "Who gave you that pendant?" she asked. "It's an elf-bolt, isn't it?" "In the Hunt, I had skill with them," he said. "I could strike at an enemy while riding, and hit the target nine times out of ten. He called me 'elf- shot' because--" Mark broke off, turning to look at Emma where she perched on the bed. "We are alike, you and I," he said. "The storm calls you as it calls me, doesn't it? I saw in your eyes earlier--you wanted to be out in it. To run on the beach, perhaps, as the lightning comes down." Emma took a shaking breath. "Mark, I don't--" "What's going on?" It was Julian. He had changed out of his suit and was standing in the doorway. The look on his face as he glanced from Mark to Emma--Emma couldn't describe it. She'd never seen Jules look like that before. "If you two are busy," he said, and his voice was like the edge of a knife, "with each other, I can come back some other time." Mark looked puzzled. Emma stared. "Mark and I were talking," Emma said. "That's it." "We are done now." Mark rose to his feet, one of his hands resting on the elf-bolt. Julian looked at them both levelly. "Tomorrow afternoon, Diana's taking Cristina to Malcolm's," he said. "Something about Cristina needing to interview the High Warlock about how we do things here as opposed to Mexico City. Probably Diana just wants to check up on how Malcolm's translation is coming and she needs an excuse." "Okay, then we can head to Rook's," said Emma. "Or I could go on my own if you want--he's used to me. Not that our last interaction was so friendly." She frowned. "No, I'll come with you," Julian said. "Rook needs to understand it's serious." "And I?" said Mark. "Am I to be a part of this expedition?" "No," Julian said. "Johnny Rook can't know you're back. The Clave doesn't know, and Rook is someone who doesn't keep secrets, he sells them." Mark looked up at his brother through his hair, his strange, odd- colored eyes gleaming. "Then I suppose I will sleep in," he said. He gave one last glance at Emma's closet--there was something in his expression, something disquieted--and left, closing the door behind him. "Jules," Emma said, "what's wrong with you? What was that about, 'if you two are busy with each other'? Do you think Mark and I were making out on the floor before you came in?" "It wouldn't have been my business if you had been," Julian said. "I was giving you privacy." "You were being a jerk." Emma slid off the bed and went over to her dresser to take off her earrings, looking at Julian in the mirror as she did so. "And I know why." She saw his expression change and tighten, surprise giving way to unreadability. "Why?" "Because you're worried," she said. "You don't like breaking the rules and you don't think going to Rook's is a good idea." He moved restlessly into the room and sat down on her bed. "Is that how you think of me?" he said. "Emma, if we need to go to Rook's, then I'm part of the plan. I'm in it, a hundred percent." She looked at herself in the mirror. Long hair didn't hide the Marks on her shoulders; her arms had muscles; her wrists were strong and sturdy. She was a map of scars: the old white scars from used-up runes, wending trails of cuts, and the splotches of burns from acidic demon blood. She felt suddenly old, not just seventeen instead of twelve, but old. Old in her heart, and too late. Surely if she were going to find her parents' murderer she would have done so by now. "I'm sorry," she said. He leaned back against her headboard. He was wearing an old T-shirt and pajama bottoms. "What for?" For the way I feel. She shoved the words back. If she was having strange feelings about Jules, it wasn't fair to tell him about them. She was the one in the wrong. And he was hurting. She could see it in the set of his mouth, the darkness behind his light eyes. "Doubting you," she said. "Back at you." He flopped back onto her pillows. His shirt, untucked, rode up, giving Emma a clear view of his stomach, the corrugation of muscles, the smatter of golden freckles over his hip.... "I don't think I'm ever going to find out what happened to my parents," she said. At that he sat up, which was a relief. "Emma," he said, and then paused. He didn't say Why would you say that? Or What do you mean? Or any of the other things people said to fill up space. Instead, he said, "You will. You're the most determined person that I've ever known." "I feel farther away now than I've ever felt. Even though we actually have a connection, even though we're following up on it. I don't see how their deaths could be connected to the Midnight Theater or the Lottery. I don't see--" "You're afraid," Jules said. Emma leaned against the dresser. "Afraid of what?" "Afraid we'll find out something about them you don't want to know," he said. "In your mind, your parents are perfect. Now that we're actually closing in on answers, you're worried you'll find out they were--" "Not perfect?" Emma fought to keep the edge of tension out of her voice. "Bad people?" "Human," he said. "We all find out the people who are supposed to take care of us are human eventually. That they make mistakes." He pushed his hair back out of his eyes. "I live in dread of the day the kids all figure that out about me." "Julian," Emma said. "I hate to tell you this, but I think they've already figured that out." He smiled and slid off the bed. "Insults," he said. "I guess that means you're fine." He moved to the door. "We can't tell Diana we're going to Rook's," she said. "She thinks he's a crook." "She's not wrong." The dim light in the room sparked off Julian's bracelet. "Emma, do you want me to--" He hesitated, but Emma heard the unspoken words. Stay with you? Stay with me, she wanted to say. Stay and make me forget my nightmares. Stay and sleep next to me. Stay and chase the bad dreams away, the memories of blood. But she only forced a smile. "I should get to sleep, Jules." She couldn't see his expression as he turned to leave the room. "Good night, Emma." Emma woke late the next day: sometime overnight, the storm had washed the sky clean of clouds, and the afternoon sun was bright. Her head aching, she clambered out of bed, showered and changed, and nearly collided with Cristina outside her bedroom door. "You slept so long, I was worried," Cristina scolded. "Are you okay?" "I will be once I have breakfast. Maybe something chocolate." "It's much too late for breakfast. It's past lunchtime. Julian sent me up to get you--he says he has drinks and sandwiches in the car but you have to get going now." "Do you think they're chocolate sandwiches?" Emma inquired, falling into step beside Cristina as they both headed for the stairs. "What's a chocolate sandwich?" "You know: bread, chocolate bar, butter." "That is disgusting." Cristina shook her head; the pearls in her earlobes gleamed. "Not as disgusting as coffee. You off to Malcolm's?" Cristina flashed a smile. "I shall ask a million questions of your purply- eyed warlock so that Diana doesn't think about you and Julian or whether you might be at Mr. Rook's." "I'm not sure he's a mister," Emma said, stifling a yawn. "I've never heard anyone call him anything but 'hey. Rook' or sometimes 'that bastard.'" "That is very rude," said Cristina. There was something playful in her dark eyes. "I think Mark is nervous about being alone with the younger ones. This should be very amusing." She tugged one of Emma's damp braids. "Julian is waiting for you downstairs." "Good luck distracting Malcolm," Emma called as Cristina strode off down the hallway toward the kitchen where Diana was, presumably, waiting. Cristina winked. "Good luck getting information, cuata" Shaking her head, Emma headed down to the parking lot, where she found Julian standing beside the Toyota, examining the contents of the trunk. Beside him was Mark. "I thought Cristina was going to be here," Mark was saying as Emma approached. "I did not realize she was going to Malcolm's. I did not think that I would be left alone with the children." "They're not children," Julian said, nodding a greeting at Emma. "Ty and Livvy are fifteen; they've looked after the others before." "Tiberius is angry that you are not allowing him to come with you to Rook's," said Mark. "He said he was going to lock himself in his room." "Terrific," said Julian. His voice was rough; he looked as if he hadn't slept. Emma wondered what could have kept him up. Research? "I guess you'll know where he is. Look, the only one who needs looking after is Tavvy." Mark looked ill with horror. "I know." "He's a kid, not a bomb," said Emma, buckling on a weapons belt. There were several seraph blades and a stele thrust through it. She wasn't in gear. just jeans and a jacket that would hide the sword on her back. Not that she expected trouble, but she hated going out without Cortana, currently napping in the trunk. "It'll be okay. Dru and Livvy can help." "Maybe this mission of yours is too dangerous," Mark said, as Julian slammed the trunk shut. "A faerie would tell you that a rook is a black crow-- a bird of ill omen." "I know," Julian said, sliding a final, thin dagger into the holder strapped around his wrist. "It also means to cheat or to swindle. It was my word of the day last year from Diana." "Johnny Rook is a swindler, all right," Emma agreed. "He swindles mundanes. We'll be fine." "The children could set themselves on fire," Mark said. He didn't sound like he was joking. "Ty and Livvy are fifteen," said Emma. "They're nearly the same age you were when you joined the Hunt. And you were--" "What?" Mark turned his odd eyes on her. "I was fine?" Emma felt herself flush. "An afternoon in their own home is not exactly the same as being kidnapped by cannibalistic faerie predators." "We didn't eat people," Mark said indignantly. "At least not to my knowledge." Julian unlocked the driver's side door and slid inside. Emma climbed into the passenger seat as he leaned out the window and looked sympathetically at his brother. "Mark, we have to go. If anything happens, have Livvy text us, but right now Rook is the best chance we have. Okay?" Mark straightened up as if readying for battle. "Okay." "And if they do manage to set themselves on fire?" "Yes?" Mark said. "You'd better find a way to put them out." Johnny Rook lived in Victor Heights, in a small craftsman bungalow with dusty windows sandwiched between two ranch houses. It had a disused air that Emma assumed was carefully cultivated. It looked like the sort of place neighborhood children would skip over when searching for candy on Halloween. Otherwise it was a nice street. There were kids playing hopscotch a few houses down, and an old man reading a newspaper in his gazebo, surrounded by lawn gnomes. When Julian pictured mundane life, it looked a lot like this. Sometimes he thought it wouldn't be so bad. Emma was strapping Cortana on. They were already glamoured, so there was no worry about the children down the street seeing her as she pulled the strap tight, a small frown line appearing between her eyebrows as she got the fit right. Her hair shone in the California sunlight, brighter than the gold of Cortana's hilt. The white scars on her hands gleamed, too, diffuse, a lacelike patchwork. No. Mundane life was not an option. Emma lifted her head and smiled at him. A familiar smile, easy. It was like last night--the dancing and the music that still seemed to him like a fever dream--hadn't happened. "Ready to go?" she said. The paved path that led to the front door was cracked where the roots of trees had grown up, their inexorable force snapping the pavement. The persistence of growing things, Julian thought, and wished he had a canvas and paints. He was reaching for his phone to snap a picture when it went off with the dull ring that signaled a text message. He glanced at the screen. It was from Mark. CANT FINDTY. Julian frowned and thumbed a reply while jogging up the steps after Emma, did you look in his bedroom? There was an ornate knocker on the front door in the shape of a wild- haired, wild-eyed Green Man. Emma lifted it and let it fall as Julian's phone beeped again. do you take me for a buffoon? of course I did. "Jules?" Emma said. "Is everything all right?" "Buffoon?" he muttered, his fingers flying over the touch pad. what does LIVVY SAY? "Did you just mutter 'buffoon'?" Emma demanded. Julian could hear footsteps approaching from the other side of the door. "Julian, try to act not weird, okay?" The door flew open. The man standing on the other side was tall and rangy, dressed in jeans and a leather jacket. His hair was so close- cropped it was hard to tell its color, and tinted glasses hid his eyes. He slumped against the doorjamb the moment he saw Emma. "Carstairs," he said. It was a sound between a prayer and a groan. Julian's phone pinged, liwy says she doesn't know. The man raised an eyebrow. "Busy?" he said sardonically. He turned to Emma. "Your other boyfriend was politer." Emma flushed. "This isn't my boyfriend. This is Jules." "Of course. I should have recognized the Blackthorn eyes." Rook's voice turned silky. "You look just like your father, Julian." Julian didn't much like the man's smirk. Then again, he'd never liked anything about Emma associating with Rook. Mundanes who dabbled in magic, even ones with the Sight, were a gray area to the Clave--there wasn't a Law, but neither were you supposed to deal with them. If you needed magic done, you hired a nice. Clave-approved warlock. Not that Emma had ever cared much about the approval of the Clave. LIWY'S LYING. SHE ALWAYS KNOWS WHERE TY IS. MAKE HER TELL YOU. JuleS shoved the phone back into his pocket. It wasn't unusual for Ty to vanish, into corners of the library or places in the hill where he could coax lizards out from under their rocks. And he was angry, which made it more likely he'd hide. The man swung the door open. "Come in," he said in a resigned tone. "You know the rules. No taking out weapons, Carstairs. And no back talk." "Define 'back talk,"' Emma said, stepping inside. Julian followed her. A wave of magic as thick as smoke in a burning building hit him. It hung in the air of the small living room, almost visible in the dim light that filtered through the yellowing curtains. Tall craftsman bookshelves held spell books and grimoires, copies of The Malleus Maleficarum, the Pseudomonarchia Daemonum, The Lesser Key of Solomon, and a blood-red volume with the words Dragon Rouge lettered on the spine. A yellowish rag rug that matched the curtains lay crookedly on the floor; Rook kicked it aside with an unpleasant grin. Under it was revealed a spell circle chalked onto the hardwood planks. It was the kind of circle warlocks stood inside when they summoned demons; the circle created a protective wall. It was actually two circles, one inside the other, making a sort of frame, and inside the frame were scrawled the sigils of the seventy Lords of Hell. Julian frowned as Rook stepped neatly into the circle and crossed his arms. "A protection circle," Rook said unnecessarily. "You can't get in." "And you can't get out," Julian observed. "Not easily, anyway." Rook shrugged. "Why would I want to?" "Because that's some powerful magic you're playing with." "Don't judge," Rook said. "We who cannot wield the magic of Heaven must use what comes to hand." "The sigils of Hell?" Julian said. "There's some middle ground between Hell and Heaven, surely." Rook flashed a grin. "There's all the world," he said. "It's a messy place, Shadowhunter, and we don't all get to keep our hands clean." "There's a difference between dirt and blood," Julian said. Emma shot him a quelling look, one that said: We're here because we need something. She didn't always have to write on his skin for him to know what she was thinking. The curtains rustled, though there was no breeze. "Look, we're not here to bother you," Emma said. "We just want some information, and we'll go." "Information isn't free," said Rook. "I've got something good for you this time. Better than cash," Emma said. Avoiding Julian's eyes, she took a pale column of silvery-white stone from the inside of her jacket pocket. She flushed slightly, aware of Julian's eyes on her as he realized what she was holding: an unnamed seraph blade. "What is he going to do with adamasl" Julian demanded. "Adamas that has been treated by the Iron Sisters goes for a high price at the Shadow Market," said Rook, not taking his eyes off Emma's prize. "But it still depends on what you want to know about." "The Midnight Theater and the Followers," Emma said. "We want to know about them." Rook narrowed his eyes. "What do you want to know?" Emma gave him a brief rundown of the events of the night before, leaving out Mark and how they'd found out about the Lottery in the first place. When she was done, Rook whistled. "Casper Sterling," he said. "I always thought that guy was a scumbag. Yakking on about how he was better than werewolves, better than humans, too. Can't say I'm sorry his number came up." "Johnny," Emma said severely. "They're going to catch him." An odd expression flickered across Rook's face, but it vanished quickly. "And you want me to do what about it? They're a whole organization, Carstairs." "We need to know who their leader is," said Julian. "Belinda called him the Guardian. He's the one we need to find." "I don't know," said Rook. "I'm not sure pissing off the Followers is worth even adamas." But his eyes clung to the silvery-white stuff longingly. Emma pressed the advantage. "They'll never know you had anything to do with it," she said. "But I saw you flirting with Belinda at the Shadow Market. She's got to know." Rook shook his head. "She doesn't." "Huh," Emma said. "Okay, which of them does?" "None of them. The leader's identity is totally secret. I don't even know if it's a man or a woman. The Guardian could be either, you know?" "If I find out you're hiding something you know from me, Johnny," Emma said in a cold voice, "there will be consequences. Diana knows I'm here. You won't be able to get me in trouble with the Clave. But I could get you in trouble. Serious trouble." "Emma, forget it," Julian said in a bored voice. "He doesn't know anything. Let's take the adamas and go." "They get two days," Rook said in a thin, angry voice. "When their numbers get picked. They get two days before the kill has to happen." He glared at them both, as if somehow this was their fault. "It's sympathetic magic. The energy of the death of a supernatural creature powers the spell that makes them all stronger. And the leader--he shows up for the kill. That much I know. If you're there for the death, you'll see him. Or her. Whoever it is." "The Guardian shows up at the murder?" Emma said. "To harvest the energy?" "So if we shadow Sterling, if we wait for someone to attack him, we'll see the Guardian?" Julian said. "Yeah. That should work. I mean, you're crazy to want to be there at some big dark-magic party, but I guess it's your business." "I guess it is," Julian said. His phone buzzed again, uwy wont tell me ANYTHING. SHE'S LOCKED HERSELF IN HER ROOM. HELP. A tendril of worry uncurled in Julian's stomach. He told himself he was being stupid. He knew he worried about his siblings too much. Ty had probably wandered off after an animal, was petting a squirrel or cuddling a stray cat. Or he might have shut himself away with a book, not wanting to socialize. Julian thumbed out a response: go outside and look for him in the back GARDEN. "Still texting?" said Rook, a mocking tone to his voice. "I'm guessing you have a pretty rich social life." "I wouldn't worry," said Julian. "My phone's almost out of battery." The phone whirred again, headed outside, it said, and then the screen went black. He shoved it into his pocket as an enormous crash sounded from downstairs, and after it, the sound of a bitten-off cry. "What the hell?" said Rook. The shock in his voice was real; Emma must have heard it too, because she was already moving toward the steps that led downstairs. Rook shouted after them, but Julian knew it would take him a moment to free himself from his protection circle. Without another glance at Rook, he darted after Emma. Kit Rook pressed himself into the shadow of the stairwell. Voices filtered down from upstairs, along with dim sunlight. His father always sent him down into the cellar when they had visitors. Especially the kind of visitors that had him running for his chalk so he could draw a protection circle. Kit could only see shadows moving upstairs, but he could hear two voices. Young voices, to his surprise. A boy's and a girl's. He had a pretty good idea what they were, and it wasn't Downworlders. He'd seen the look on his father's face when they'd knocked on the door. Rook hadn't said anything, but he wore that expression for only one thing: Shadowhunters. Nephilim. Kit felt the slow burn of anger start in his stomach. He'd been sitting on the sofa watching TV and now he was crouched in the basement like a thief in his own home because Shadowhunters thought they had the right to legislate magic. To tell everyone what to do. To-- A figure hurtled at him out of the shadows. It hit him hard in the chest and he staggered back and slammed into the wall behind him, breath knocked out of his body. He gasped as light flared up around him--pale white light, held in the cup of a human hand. Something sharp kissed the base of Kit's throat. He sucked in air and raised his eyes. He was staring right at a boy his own age. Ink-black hair and eyes the color of the edge of a knife, eyes that darted away from his as the boy scowled. He had a long, thin, black-clad body and pale skin Marked all over with the runes of the Nephilim. Kit had never been this close to a Shadowhunter. The boy had one hand on his glowing light--it wasn't a flashlight or anything electronic; Kit knew magic when he saw it--and the other gripped a dagger whose point rested against Kit's throat. Kit had imagined before what he'd do if a Nephilim ever grabbed him. How he'd stomp on their feet, break their bones, snap their wrists, spit in their faces. He did none of those things, thought of none of those things. He looked at the boy with the knife to his throat, the boy whose black eyelashes feathered down against his cheekbones as he glanced away from Kit, and he felt something like a shock of recognition pass through him. He thought, How beautiful. Kit blinked. Though the other boy wasn't looking directly at him, he seemed to note the movement. In a harsh whisper, he demanded, "Who are you? What are you doing here? You're too young to be Johnny Rook." His voice was lovely. Clear and low, with a rasp to it that made him sound older than he was. A rich boy's voice. "No," said Kit. He felt dazed and puzzled, as if a bright camera flash had gone off in his eyes. "I'm not." The boy still wasn't looking directly at Kit. As if Kit weren't worth looking at. Kit's dazed feeling was starting to fade, to be replaced by anger. "Go on," Kit said, challenging. "Figure it out." The boy's expression clouded, then cleared. "You're his son," he said. "Johnny Rook's son." And then his lip did curl, just the slightest curl of contempt, and anger boiled up in Kit. He jerked aside fast, away from the dagger, and kicked out. The other boy spun, but Kit caught him with a glancing blow. He heard a cry of pain. The light tumbled from the boy's hand, winking out, and then Kit was being shoved up against the wall again, a hand scrabbling to fist itself in his shirt, and the dagger was back at his throat, and the other boy was whispering, "Be quiet, be quiet, be quiet," and then the room was full of light. The other boy froze. Kit looked up to see two other Shadowhunters standing on the cellar steps: a boy with blazing blue-green eyes and the blond girl he had seen at the Shadow Market the week before. They were both staring--not at him, but at the boy gripping his shirt. The boy winced but held his ground, defiance chasing alarm across his face. Aha, Kit thought with dawning realization. You're not supposed to be down here, are you? "Tiberius Blackthorn," said the boy with blue-green eyes. "What on earth are you doing?" Emma stood and gawked at Ty, completely brought up short. It was as if the Institute had suddenly appeared in the middle of Johnny Rook's cellar: The sight of Ty was familiar, and yet totally incongruous. Ty looked rumpled and more frazzled than she'd seen him in years, though his grip on his dagger was steady. Diana would have been pleased. She would probably not have been pleased that he was pointing it at the throat of a mundane boy--he looked about fifteen, and oddly familiar. She'd seen him before, Emma realized, at the Shadow Market. His hair was a mass of blond tangles; his shirt was clean but ragged, his jeans worn to a faded pallor. And he looked ready to punch Ty in the face, which was unusual for a mundane in his position. Most of them were much more unsettled by a knife to the throat. "Ty," Julian said again. He looked furious--fury with an edge of panic. "Ty, let go of Johnny Rook's son." The blond boy's eyes widened. "How did you--how do you know who I am?" he demanded. Julian shrugged. "Who else would you be?" He tilted his head to the side. "Maybe you know something about the Lottery at the Midnight Theater?" "Jules," Emma said. "He's just a kid." "I'm not a kid!" the boy protested. "And my name is Kit." "We're trying to help," Julian said. The blond boy--Kit--scowled. Julian softened his voice. "We're trying to save lives." "My father told me that's what Shadowhunters always say." "Do you believe everything he says?" "He was right this time, wasn't he?" Kit pointed out. His gaze slid to Emma; she remembered noticing that he had the Sight. She'd thought he was Rook's assistant, though, not his son. They looked nothing alike. "You said it." "I meant--" Julian began. "I don't know anything about a lottery," Kit snapped. He glanced at Tiberius. What was odder, perhaps, was that Ty was looking at him. Emma remembered Ty, years ago, saying. Why do people say "look at me" when they mean "look at my eyes"? You could be looking at any part of a person and you're still looking at them. But he was looking curiously at Kit's eyes as if they reminded him of something. "Kit!" The voice was a roar. Emma heard skidding footsteps on the stairs, and Johnny Rook appeared. One of his sleeves was singed. Emma had never seen him look so furious. "Leave my son alone!" Ty steadied his grip on the knife, straightening his spine. He faced Johnny Rook without a speck of fear. "Tell us about the Lottery," he said. Kit winced. Emma could see it, even in the gloom. Ty didn't seem frightening to her, but then, she'd cuddled him when he was three years old. But fear was clear in Johnny Rook's face: As far as he was concerned, Nephilim had snuck a Shadowhunter into his basement to murder his son. "I'll give you Casper Sterling's address," he said as Kit stared at him, looking bewildered. Clearly he had rarely seen his father so shaken. "I've got it, okay? He's got a bunch of identities, he isn't easy to find, but I know where he lives. All right? Good enough? Let my son go!" Ty lowered the knife and stepped back. He kept it in his hand, his eyes on Kit as the other boy rubbed ruefully at the dent in his throat. "Dad, I--" Kit started. "Be quiet. Kit," Johnny Rook snapped. "I've told you. Don't say anything in front of Nephilim." "We're on the same side," Julian said in his calmest voice. Johnny Rook whirled on him. His face was red, his throat working. "Don't you dare tell me what side I'm on, you know nothing, nothing --" "Enough!" Emma shouted. "By the Angel, what are you so frightened of?" Johnny slammed his mouth shut. "I'm not frightened," he said through his teeth. "Just get out," he said. "Get out, and don't ever come here again. I'll text you the address but after that, don't call, don't ask me for favors. We're done, Nephilim." "Fine," Emma said, gesturing for Ty to come toward her and Julian. "We'll go. Ty--" Ty slid the knife he'd been holding into his belt and darted up the steps. Julian turned and went after him. The boy at the bottom of the stairs didn't watch them go; his eyes were fixed on his father. He wasn't much younger than Emma--maybe by a year or two--but she felt a sudden inexplicable surge of protectiveness toward Johnny Rook's son. If he had the Sight, then all of Downworld was open to him: terrifying and inexplicable. In his own way he was like Tiberius, living in a world he saw differently than everyone else. "Fine, Johnny," Emma said again, loudly. "But if you change your mind, you have my number in your phone. Under Carstairs." Johnny Rook glared at her. "Call me," Emma said again, and this time she looked directly at Kit. "If you ever need anything." "Get OUT." Rook looked as if he were going to explode or have a heart attack, so with a last look over her shoulder, Emma went. Emma found Ty out by the car. Clouds had gathered, scudding in quick bursts across the sky. Ty was leaning against the trunk, the wind ruffling his black hair. "Where's Jules?" she asked as she got close. "Over there." He pointed. "I got into the house with an Open rune. I broke the lock on the basement door. He's fixing it." Emma glanced over toward Johnny Rook's and saw Jules's lean, long figure outlined by the stuccoed wall. She opened the trunk of the car, unbuckling her weapons belt. "How did you get here, anyway?" "I hid in the backseat. Under that blanket." Ty pointed. Emma could see the edge of a pair of headphones peeking out from under the quilt's fuzzy edge. "You think Julian's mad at me?" With the knife put away, he looked very young, his gray eyes clear and open, fixed on the clouds overhead. "Ty." Emma sighed. "He's going to murderate you." Julian was heading back toward them. Ty said, "That's a neologism." Emma blinked. "It's a what?" "A word you made up. Shakespeare made up words all the time." Emma smiled at him, oddly touched. "Well, 'murderate' isn't exactly Shakespeare." Ty braced himself as Julian walked directly up to him, not breaking stride, his jaw set, his blue-green eyes as dark as the deep part of the ocean. He reached Ty and caught hold of him, pulling him into a fierce hug. He pressed his face down into his little brother's black hair as Ty stood, frozen and astonished at Julian's lack of anger. "Jules?" he said. "Are you all right?" Julian's shoulders shook. He held his little brother tighter, as if he could crush Ty into himself, into a place where he'd always be safe. He put his cheek against Ty's curls, squeezing his eyes shut, his voice muffled. "I thought something happened to you," he said. "I thought Johnny Rook might--" He didn't finish his sentence. Ty put his arms carefully around Julian. He patted his back, gently, with his slender hands. It was the first time Emma had seen Ty comfort his older brother--almost the first time she'd ever actually seen Julian let someone else take care of him. They were silent on the long highway drive back to the Institute; silent as the clouds cleared away, blown inland by the ocean air. The sun was low on the water as they drove up the Pacific Coast Highway. They were silent as they got out of the car and Julian finally really spoke. "You shouldn't have done that," he said, looking at Tiberius. He'd stopped shaking--thankfully, since he'd been driving--and his voice was steady and soft. "It was too dangerous for you to come with us." Ty put his hands in his pockets. "I know what you think. But this is my investigation too." "Mark texted me to tell me you were missing," Julian said, and Emma started; she should have guessed that was what all the business with Jules's phone had been about. "I almost walked right out of Rook's house. I don't think he would have let us back in." "I'm sorry you were worried," said Ty. "That's why I hugged you outside Rook's house, because I was sorry you were worried. But I'm not Tavvy. I'm not a child. I don't need to always be there so that you or Mark can find me." "You shouldn't have come into Rook's house either." Julian's voice rose. "It wasn't safe." "I wasn't planning to come inside. Just to look at the house. Observe it." Ty's soft mouth hardened. "Then I saw you go in, and I saw someone moving around downstairs. I thought they might come up and attack you when you didn't expect it. I knew you didn't realize anyone was down there." "Jules," Emma said. "You would have done the same thing." Jules shot her an exasperated look. "Ty's only fifteen." "Don't say it's dangerous because I'm fifteen," Ty said. "You did things just as dangerous when you were fifteen. And Rook wouldn't have told you Sterling's address if I hadn't been holding a knife on his son." "That's true," said Emma. "He got into that protection circle too fast." "You couldn't have known he had a son hidden down there," Julian said. "You couldn't have predicted what would happen, Ty. It was luck." "Prediction is magic," Ty said. "It wasn't that, and it wasn't luck, either. I've heard Emma talk about Rook. Diana too. He sounded like someone who would hide things. Who you couldn't trust. And I was right." He looked hard at Jules; he wasn't looking him in the eye, but his gaze was direct. "You always want to protect me," he said. "But you won't ever tell me when I'm right. If you let me make decisions on my own, maybe you'd worry about me less." Julian looked stunned. "It could help that we know Rook has a son," said Ty. He spoke with a clear confidence. "You can't be sure it won't. And I got you Sterling's address. I helped, even if you didn't want me there." In the dim light spilling down from the Institute, Julian looked as vulnerable as Emma had ever seen him. "I'm sorry," he said, almost formally. "I didn't mean to make it sound like you didn't help." "I know the Law," said Ty. "I know fifteen isn't grown up. I know we need Uncle Arthur, and we need you." He frowned. "I mean, I can't cook at all, and neither can Livvy. And I wouldn't know how to put Tavvy to bed. I'm not saying you need to put me in charge or let me do whatever I want. I know there are rules. But some things--maybe Mark could do them?" "But Mark--" Julian began, and Emma knew his fear. Mark might not stay. He might not want to. "Mark's just getting to know you all again and know what it's like being here," Julian said. "I don't know if we could ask him to do too much." "He wouldn't mind," said Ty. "He likes me. He likes us." "He loves you," said Julian. "And I love you too. But Ty, Mark might not-- If we don't find the killer, Mark might not be able to stay here." "That's why I want to help solve the mystery," said Ty. "So Mark can stay. He could take care of us, and you could rest." He pulled his jacket closed, shivering; the wind off the ocean was intensely cool. "I'm going to go inside and find Livvy. Mark too. He was probably worried." Julian stared after Ty as he went into the house. The look on his face--it was as if Emma were looking at one of his paintings, but crumpled and torn, the colors and lines jumbled. "They all think that, don't they?" he said slowly. "They all think Mark is going to stay." Emma hesitated. A few days before, she would have told Julian not to be ridiculous. That Mark would stay with his family, no matter what. But she had seen the night sky in Mark's eyes when he talked of the Hunt, heard the cold freedom in his voice. There were two Marks, she thought sometimes: the human and the faerie. Human Mark would stay. Faerie Mark could not be predicted. "How could they not?" Emma said. "If I got one of my parents back somehow--and then thought they were going to leave again, voluntarily--" Julian looked ashen. "We live in a world of demons and monsters, and the thing that scares me the most is the idea that Mark might decide he belongs with the Wild Hunt and leave. Even if we solve the mystery and satisfy the Fair Folk. He might still go. And he'll smash their hearts to pieces. They'll never recover." Emma moved closer to Julian, laying a hand against his shoulder. "You can't protect the kids against everything," she said. "They have to live in the world and deal with what happens in the world. And that means loss sometimes. If Mark chooses to leave, it'll be awful. But they're strong kids. They'll live through it." There was a long silence. Finally Julian spoke. "Sometimes I almost wish Mark hadn't come back," he said in a dry, tense voice. "What does that make me?" H-U-M-A-N, Emma traced on his back, and for a moment he leaned into her, seeming to draw comfort from her, the way parabatai were supposed to. The noises of the desert dimmed around them--it was something parabatai could do, create a quiet space where there was nothing but themselves and the live connection of magic that bound them. A loud crash broke through the silence. Julian drew away from Emma with a start. There was another crash, clearly coming from inside the Institute. Julian spun around; a moment later he was racing up the back steps of the house. Emma followed him. There was more noise: She could hear it even on the staircase, the clanging of dishware, the sound of laughing voices. They hurried upstairs, side by side. Emma reached the kitchen first and swung the door open. She gasped. <|title|>Chapter 17: The Demons Down Under The Sea <|startofchapter|>It looked as if the kitchen had exploded. The refrigerator had been emptied out. Ketchup decorated its once-white surface in scarlet swirls. One of the pantry doors was hanging off its hinges. The Costco tub of maple syrup had been dragged out, and syrup covered almost every available surface. A massive bag of powdered sugar had been torn open and Tavvy was sitting inside it, completely covered in white powder. He looked like a tiny abominable snowman. Mark seemed to have tried cooking, since there were pans on the stove, filled with burned substances that were pouring smoke into the air. The flames were still on. Julian darted to turn them off while Emma stared. Julian's kitchen, which he'd stocked with food for five years, kept clean and cooked in, made pancakes in--was destroyed. Bags of candy had been ripped open and littered the floor. Dru was sitting on the counter, poking at a glass of something foul-looking and humming happily to herself. Livvy was curled up on one of the bench seats, giggling, a stick of licorice in her hand. Ty was beside her, licking a speck of sugar from the back of his wrist. Mark emerged from the pantry wearing a white apron with red hearts on it and carrying two pieces of singed bread. "Toast!" he announced happily, before catching sight of Julian and Emma. There was a silence. Julian appeared to be struggling for words; Emma found herself backing toward the door. She had suddenly remembered the fights Mark and Julian used to have when they were children. They had been vicious and bloody in scope, and Julian had given as good as he got. In fact, sometimes he had given before he got. Mark raised his eyebrows. "Toast?" "That's my toast," Ty pointed out. "Right." Mark crossed the room, side-eyeing Julian as he went. Julian was still wordless, slumped against the stove. "And what do you want on your toast?" "Pudding," Ty said promptly. "Pudding?" Julian echoed. Emma had to admit that when she'd imagined the first word Julian was going to say out loud in this situation, it hadn't been "pudding." "Why not pudding?" Livvy said equably, locating a container of tapioca pudding and handing it to her twin, who began to spoon it onto the bread in measured doses. Julian turned to Mark. "I thought you said she was locked in her room." "She came out when you guys texted that you found Ty," said Mark. "There didn't seem to be any reason not to," said Livvy. "And why is the toaster in the pantry?" Julian said. "I couldn't find any other. . ." Mark seemed to be searching for words. "Electrical outlets." "And why is Tavvy in a bag of sugar?" Mark shrugged. "He wanted to be in a bag of sugar." "That doesn't mean you should put him in a bag of sugar." Julian's voice rose. "Or practically destroy the stove. Or let Drusilla drink--what is in that glass, Dru?" "Chocolate milk," Dru said promptly. "With sour cream and Pepsi." Julian sighed. "She shouldn't be drinking that." "Why not?" Mark untied the apron around his waist and flung it aside. "I do not understand the source of your anger, brother. They're all alive, aren't they?" "That's a pretty low bar," Julian said. "If I'd realized all you thought you had to do was keep them alive--" "That's what you said," Mark said, half angry and half bewildered. "You joked about it, said they could take care of themselves--" "They can!" Julian had risen to his full height; he seemed suddenly to tower over Mark, bigger and broader and altogether more adult than his brother. "You're the one causing the chaos! You're their older brother, do you even know what that means? You're meant to take better care of them than this!" "Jules, it's fine," Livvy said. "We're fine" "Fine?" Julian echoed. "Ty sneaked out--and I'll talk to you about that later, Livia--got into Johnny Rook's house, and held his son at knifepoint; Livvy locked herself in her room, and Tavvy is possibly permanently coated in sugar. As for Dru, we've got about five minutes until she throws up." "I won't," Dru said, scowling. "I'll clean it," Mark said. "You don't know how!" Julian was white-faced and furious. Emma had rarely seen him so angry. "You," he said, still looking at Mark, "you used to look after them, but I guess you've forgotten that. I guess you've forgotten how to do anything normal." Mark flinched. Tiberius stood up; his gray eyes burned in his pale face. His hands were moving at his sides, fluttering. Moth's wings-- wings that could hold a knife, could cut a throat. "Stop," he said. Emma didn't know whether he was talking to Julian, to Mark, or to the room in general, but she saw Julian freeze. She felt her heart contract as he looked around the room at his brothers and sisters. Dru sat unmoving; Tavvy had climbed out of the sugar and was gazing at Julian with wide blue-green eyes. Mark was unmoving: his face pale, color striping the high cheekbones that marked out his faerie heritage. There was love in his family's eyes as they looked at Julian, and worry and fear, but Emma wondered if Jules could see any of it. If all he saw was the children he had given up so much of his life for, happy with someone else. If, like her, he looked at the kitchen and remembered how he had taught himself to clean it when he was twelve years old. Taught himself to cook: simple things at first, spaghetti and butter, toast and cheese. A million cheese sandwiches, a million burns on Julian's hands and wrists from the stove and the spatter. The way he'd walked down the path to the highway every few days to accept the grocery delivery, before he could drive. The way he'd dragged and carried all their food back up the hill. Julian on his knees, skinny in jeans and sweatshirt, scrubbing the floor. The kitchen had been designed by his mother, it was a piece of her, but it was also a piece of everything he'd given over the years to his family. And he would do it again, Emma thought. Of course he would: He loved them that fiercely. The only thing that made Julian angry was fear, fear for his sisters and brothers. He was afraid now, though Emma wasn't sure why. She saw only the look on his face as he registered their resentment of him, their disappointment. The fire seemed to go out of him. He slid down the front of the stove until he was sitting on the floor. "Jules?" It was Tavvy, white granules coating his hair. He shuffled close and put his arms around Julian's neck. Jules made an odd sound, and then he pulled his brother in and hugged him fiercely. Sugar sifted down onto his black gear, dusting it with white powder. The kitchen door opened and Emma heard a gasp of surprise. She turned and saw Cristina gaping at the mess. "jQue desastre!" It didn't exactly require a translation. Mark cleared his throat and began stacking dirty dishes in the sink. Not so much stacking them as flinging them, really. Livvy went over to help him while Cristina stared. "Where's Diana?" Emma asked. "She's home. Malcolm Portaled us there and back," said Cristina, not taking her eyes off the charred pots on the stove. "She said she needed to catch up on sleep." Still holding Tavvy, Julian stood up. There was powdered sugar on his shirt, in his hair, but his face was calm, expressionless. "Sorry about the mess, Cristina." "It's fine," she said, looking around the room. "It is not my kitchen. Though," she added hastily, "I can help you clean up." "Mark will clean up," Julian said, without looking at his brother. "Did you and Diana find anything out from Malcolm?" "He had gone to see some warlocks he thought might be able to help," said Cristina. "We talked about Catarina Loss. I've heard of her-- she teaches at the Academy sometimes, Downworlder studies. Apparently both Malcolm and Diana are good friends with her, so they exchanged a lot of stories I didn't really understand." "Well, here's what we learned from Rook," said Emma, and launched into the story, leaving out the part where Ty had almost sliced off Kit Rook's head. "So someone needs to tail Sterling," said Livvy eagerly when Emma was done. "Ty and I could do it." "You can't drive," Emma pointed out. "And we need you here for research." Livvy made a face. "So we get stuck here reading 'it was many and many a year ago' nine thousand times?" "There's no reason we can't learn how to drive," said Ty, looking mulish. "Mark was saying, it's not like it matters that we're not sixteen, it's not as if we have to obey mundane laws anyway--" "Did Mark say that?" Julian said quietly. "Fine. Mark can teach you how to drive." Mark dropped a plate into the sink with a crash. "Julian--" "What is it, Mark?" said Jules. "Oh, right, you don't actually know how to drive, either. And of course teaching someone to drive takes time, but you might not actually be here. Because there's no guarantee you're staying." "That's not true," Livvy said. 'We've practically solved the case--" "But Mark has a choice." Julian was looking at his older brother over his baby brother's head. His blue-green gaze was a steady fire. "Tell them, Mark. Tell them you're sure you'll choose us." Promise them, his gaze said. Promise them you won't hurt them. Mark said nothing. Oh, Emma thought. She remembered what Julian had said to her outside. This was what he was afraid of: that they loved Mark too much already. He would give up the children he loved to Mark without a murmur, if it was what they wanted--if, as Ty had said, they wanted Mark to take care of them. He would give them up because he loved them, because their happiness was his, because they were his breath and blood. But Mark was his brother too, and he loved him as well. What did you do, what could you do, when what threatened the ones you loved was something else you loved just as much? "Julian." To everyone's surprise, it was Uncle Arthur, standing in the doorway. He cast a brief, uninterested look over the mess in the kitchen, before zeroing in on his nephew. "Julian, I need to talk to you about something. Privately." Faint worry flickered in the back of Julian's eyes. He nodded to his uncle just as something buzzed in Emma's pocket. Her phone. Her stomach clenched. It was only two words, not from a number but from a series of zeroes, the convergence. Something had tripped the monitor at the convergence site. Her mind raced. It was nearly sunset. The convergence door would be opening-- but the Mantids would be stirring as well. She needed to leave immediately to get there at the safest time. "Did someone call you?" Julian asked, glancing over at her. He was setting down Tavvy, ruffling his hair, gently pushing him toward Dru, who was looking distinctly green. Emma stifled a frown--wouldn't the message have gone to him, too? Or not--she remembered him saying that his phone was nearly dead, back at Johnny Rook's. And Diana was asleep. Emma realized she might well be the only person here who had received the convergence message. "Just Cameron," she said, grabbing for the first available name she could think of. Jules's eyes shuttered; maybe he was still worried she was going to tell Cameron about Mark. He looked pale. His expression was calm, but she could feel a tense misery coming off him in waves. She thought of the way he had clung to Ty in front of Johnny Rook's house, the way he had looked at Mark. At Arthur. Her training said she should bring Julian with her to the convergence. He was her parabatai. But she couldn't tear him away from his family right now. She just couldn't. Her mind rebelled against the thought in a way she couldn't bring herself to examine too closely. "Cristina." Emma turned to her friend. "Can I talk to you in the hallway?" With a worried look, Cristina followed Emma out into the corridor. "Is this about Cameron?" Cristina said as soon as the kitchen door shut behind them. "I do not think I am up to giving any romantic advice right now --" "I do have to go see Cameron," said Emma, her mind working quickly. She could bring Cristina with her to the convergence. Cristina was trustworthy; she wouldn't mention to anyone what they were doing. But Julian had been so clearly hurt--not just hurt, gutted--by her going to the cave alone with Mark and not telling him. And so much had strained and troubled their parabatai relationship--she couldn't do it to him again by bringing someone else with her. "But it's not that. Look, someone needs to tail Sterling. I don't think anything's going to happen with him-- we're still within the window of two days--but just in case." Cristina nodded. "I can do it. Diana left the truck; I'll take it. I need the address, though." "Julian has it. And I'll give you a note for him." "Good, because he'll ask," said Cristina dryly. There was a sudden terrible noise from the kitchen: the sound of Dru running across the kitchen floor and throwing up noisily into the sink. "Oh, poor girl," said Emma. "But I mean, that thing she drank was really disgusting. ..." "Emma, I know that you're not telling me the truth. I know you are not going to see Cameron Ashdown." Cristina held up a hand, stifling Emma's protest. "And it is all right. You would not lie to me without good reason. It's just--" "Yes?" Emma said. She tried to keep her eyes guileless. It was better, she told herself. If Diana caught her, if she got in trouble, she'd be the only one who did: Cristina and Julian didn't deserve that. She could weather it on her own. "Be careful," Cristina said. "Don't make me regret lying for you, Emma Carstairs." The sun was a brilliant ball of flame out over the ocean as Emma steered the Toyota up the dirt road that led to the convergence. The sky was darkening fast. The Toyota bumped the last few yards over the field, nearly rolling into a shallow ditch before she braked and cut the engine. She got out, reaching back inside to pull out weapons. She had left Cortana back at the Institute. It had caused her a pang, but walking out with it strapped to her back would have invited questions. At least there were seraph blades. She tucked one into her belt and thumbed her witchlight stone out of her pocket, glancing around as she did--it was oddly quiet here, with no sound of insects, small animals, or birdsong. Only the wind in the grass. The Mantl'd demons. At night they probably came out and ate everything living. She shuddered and strode toward the cave. The convergence entrance was opening, a thick black line against the granite. She glanced back once, worriedly--the sun was lower than she would have liked, dying the ocean water bloody. She'd parked as close as she could to the cave entrance so that if it was dark when she emerged, she could get to the car quickly. It was looking more and more likely that she'd have to kill some Mantids on the way, though. As she strode toward the sheer wall of rock, the black line widened a little more, as if welcoming her. She leaned against the rock with one hand, peering into the gap. It smelled oddly of seawater. She thought of her parents. Please let me find something, she prayed. Please let me find a clue, discover how this connects to what was done to you. Please let me avenge you. So I can sleep at night. Inside the gap, Emma could see the dim gleam of the rock corridor leading into the cave's heart. Gripping her witchlight, Emma plunged into the convergence. Night had nearly fallen--the sky was shading from blue to indigo, the first stars twinkling out above the distant mountains. Cristina sat with her legs up on the dashboard of the truck, her eyes fixed on the two-story ranch house that belonged to Casper Sterling. The Jeep she recognized was parked in the court in front of the house, under an old-growth olive tree. A low wall ran around the property; the neighborhood, just beside Hancock Park, was full of expensive but not particularly showy houses. Sterling's was closed, shuttered and dark. The only evidence she had that he was home was the car in the driveway. She thought of Mark, then wished she hadn't. She was doing that a lot these days--thinking of Mark and then regretting it. She had worked hard to return her life to normal after she left Mexico. No more romances with brooding and troubled men, no matter how handsome. Mark Blackthorn wasn't brooding or troubled exactly. But Mark Blackthorn belonged to Kieran and the Wild Hunt. Mark Blackthorn had a divided heart. He also had a soft, husky voice, startling eyes, and a habit of saying things that turned her world backward. And he was an excellent dancer, from what she'd seen. Cristina rated dancing highly. Boys who could dance well, kissed well--that was what her mother always said. A dark shadow ran across the roof of Sterling's house. Cristina was up and out of the car in seconds, her seraph blade in her hand. "Miguel," she whispered, and it blazed up. She was heavily glamoured enough that she knew no mundane could see her, but the blade provided precious light. She moved forward carefully, her heart pounding. She remembered what Emma had told her about the night Julian had been shot: the shadow on the roof, the man in black. She eased up to the house itself. The windows were dark, the curtains motionless. Everything was still and silent. She moved toward the Jeep. She slipped her stele out of her pocket just as a shape dropped to the ground beside her with an oomph. Cristina leaped out of the way as the shadow unfolded; it was Sterling, dressed in what Cristina imagined mundanes thought gear looked like. Black pants, black boots, a tailored black jacket. He stared at her, and his face turned slowly purple. "You,"he snarled. "I can help you," Cristina said, keeping her voice and her blade steady. "Please let me help you." The hatred in his eyes startled her. "Get away," he hissed, and yanked something out of his pocket. A gun. A handgun, small caliber, but enough to make Cristina step back. Guns were something that rarely entered Shadowhunter life; they belonged to mundanes, to their world of ordinary human crime. But they could still spill Shadowhunter blood and split Shadowhunter bones. He backed away, pointing the gun at her, until he reached the end of his driveway. Then he turned and ran. Cristina bolted after him, but by the time she'd reached the end of the driveway, he was disappearing around the corner of the street. Apparently he hadn't exaggerated--weres really were faster than humans. Faster, even, than Shadowhunters. Cristina muttered a mild curse and trudged back to the Jeep. She drew her stele from her belt with her free hand and, crouching down, carefully marked a small tracking rune into the side of the vehicle, just above the wheel. It wasn't a total disaster, she thought, trudging back to the truck. As Emma had said, they were still within the two-day window before the "hunt" began. And having put a tracking rune on Sterling's car was sure to help. If they just stayed away from his house, let him think they'd given up, hopefully he'd get careless and start driving. Only when she climbed into the truck and slammed the door behind her did she see that her phone was flashing. She'd missed a call. She picked it up and her heart fell into her stomach. Diego Rocio Rosales. She dropped the phone as if it had turned into a scorpion. Why, why, would Diego call her? She'd told him never to speak to her again. Her hand stole to the charm at her throat and she clutched it, her lips moving in a silent prayer. Give me the strength not to call him back. "Are you feeling better. Uncle?" Julian said. Arthur, slumped behind the desk in his office, looked up with faded, distant eyes. "Julian," he said. "I need to talk to you." "I know. You said." Julian leaned back against a wall. "Do you remember what it was about?" He felt exhausted, scraped out, hollow as a dry bone. He knew he should regret what he'd said in the kitchen about Mark. He knew he should be sympathetic to his uncle. But he couldn't dredge up the emotion. He didn't really remember leaving the kitchen: He recalled handing Tavvy off, as much as you could hand off a sugarcoated seven-year-old; he recalled them all promising they would clean up their dinner of cheese and chocolate and brownies and burned things. Even Dru, once she'd stopped throwing up into the sink, had sworn she'd scrub the floor and gel the ketchup off the windows. Not that Julian had realized until that moment that there was ketchup on the windows. He'd nodded and gone to leave the room, and then stopped to look around for Emma. But at some point Emma had left with Cristina. Presumably they were somewhere talking about Cameron Ashdown. And there was nothing Julian wanted less than to join in on that. He didn't know when that had happened, that the thought of Cameron made him not want to see Emma. His Emma. You always wanted to see your parabatai. They were the most welcome face in the world to you. There was a wrongness about not wanting it, as if the earth had suddenly started spinning in the other direction. "I don't think I do," Arthur said after a moment. "There was something I wanted to help with. Something about the investigation. You are still investigating, aren't you?" "The murders? The ones the faerie convoy came to us about? Yes." "I think it was about the poem," Arthur said. "The one Livia was reciting in the kitchen." He rubbed at his eyes, obviously tired. "I was passing by and I heard it." "The poem?" Julian echoed, confused. '"Annabel Lee'?" Arthur spoke in his deep, rumbling voice, sounding out the lines of poetry as if they were the lines of a spell. "But our love it was stronger by far than the love Of those who were older than we-- Of many far wiser than we-- And neither the angels in Heaven above Nor the demons down under the sea Can ever dissever my soul from the soul Of the beautiful Annabel Lee--" "I know the poem," Julian interrupted. "But I don't--" '"Those who were older,'" Arthur said. "I've heard the phrase before. In London. I can't remember what it was in connection with." He picked up a pen from the desk, tapped it against the wood. "I'm sorry. I just--I can't remember." "Those Who Are Older," murmured Julian. He remembered Belinda, back at the theater, smiling with her blood-red lips. May Those Who Are Older grant us all good fortune, she'd said. An idea bloomed in the back of Julian's mind, but, elusive, disappeared when he tried to chase it. He needed to go to his studio. He wanted to be alone, and painting would unlock his thoughts. He turned to go and only paused when Uncle Arthur's voice cut through the dusty air. "Did I help you, boy?" he said. "Yes," said Julian. "You helped." When Cristina returned to the Institute, it was dark and silent. The entryway lights were off, and only a few windows glowed--Julian's studio, the bright spot of the attic, the square that was the kitchen. Frowning, Cristina went directly there, wondering if Emma had returned yet from her mysterious errand. If the others had managed to clean up the mess they'd made. At first glance the kitchen seemed deserted, only a single light on. Dishes were piled in the sink, and though someone had clearly scrubbed the walls and counters, there was still food crusted onto the stove, and two large trash bags, stuffed full and half-spilling their contents, propped against the wall. "Cristina?" She blinked into the dimness, though there was no mistaking the voice. Mark. He was sitting on the floor, his legs crossed. Tavvy was asleep beside him --on him, really, his head resting in the crook of Mark's arm, his small legs and arms curled up like a potato bug's. Mark's T-shirt and jeans were covered with powdered sugar. Cristina slowly unwound her scarf and placed it on the table. "Has Emma returned yet?" "I don't know," Mark said, his hand carefully stroking Tavvy's hair. "But if she has, she's probably gone to sleep." Cristina sighed. She'd probably have to wait until tomorrow to see Emma, find out what she'd been doing. Tell her about Diego's phone call, if she could get up the nerve. "Could you--if you don't mind--get me a glass of water?" Mark asked. He looked down half-apologetically at the boy in his lap. "I don't want to wake him." "Of course." Cristina went to the sink, filled a glass, and returned, sitting down cross-legged opposite Mark. He took the glass with a grateful expression. "I'm sure Julian isn't that angry with you," she said. Mark made an inelegant noise, finishing the water and setting the glass down. "You could pick up Tavvy," Cristina suggested. "You could carry him to bed. If you want him to sleep." "I like him here," Mark said, looking down at his own long, pale fingers tangled in the little boy's brown curls. "He just-- They all left, and he fell asleep on me." He sounded amazed, wondering. "Of course he did," Cristina said. "He's your brother. He trusts you." "Nobody trusts a Hunter," Mark said. "You are not a Hunter in this house. You are a Blackthorn." "I wish Julian agreed with you. I thought I was keeping the children happy. I thought that's what Julian would have wanted." Tavvy shifted in Mark's arms and Mark moved too, so that the edge of his boot was touching the tip of Cristina's. She felt the contact like a small shock. "You have to understand," she said. "Julian does everything for these children. Everything. I have never seen a brother who is so much like a parent. He cannot only tell them yes, he has to tell them no. He must deal in discipline and punishment and denial. Whereas you, you can give them anything. You can have fun with them." "Julian can have fun with them," Mark said a little sulkily. "He can't," said Cristina. "He is envious because he loves them but he cannot be their brother. He must be their father. In his mind, they dread him and adore you." "Julian's jealous?" Mark looked astonished. "Of me?" "I think so." Cristina met his eyes. At some point, in knowing him, the mismatch between his blue and his golden one had stopped seeming strange to her. The same way it had stopped seeming strange to be in the Blackthorns' kitchen, speaking English, instead of at home, where things were warm and familiar. "Be kind to him. He has a gentle soul. He is terrified you will leave and break the hearts of all these children he loves so very much." Mark looked down at Tavvy. "I don't know what I will do," he said. "I did not realize how it would tear at my heart to be back among them. It was thinking of them, of my family, that helped me live through the first years I was in the Hunt. Every day we would ride, and steal from the dead. It was cold, a cold life. And at night I would lie down and conjure their faces to lull me to sleep. They were all I had until--" He broke off. Tavvy sat up, scrubbing his small hands through his tangled hair. "Jules?" He yawned. "No," said his brother quietly. "It's Mark." "Oh, right." Tavvy gave him a blink-eyed smile. "Think I crashed from all the sugar." "Well, you were inside a bag of it," Mark said. "That could have an effect on anyone." Tavvy got to his feet and stretched, a full little-boy stretch with his arms outraised. Mark watched him, a look of wistfulness in his eyes. Cristina wondered if he was thinking about all the years and milestones he'd missed in Tavvy's life. Of all his siblings, his youngest had changed the most. "Bed," Tavvy said, and wandered out of the kitchen, pausing at the door to say, "Night, Cristina!" shyly before scampering off. Cristina turned back to Mark. He was still sitting with his back against the refrigerator. He looked exhausted, not just physically, but as if his soul were tired. She could get up and go to bed, Cristina thought. She probably should. There was no reason for her to stay here and sit on the floor with a boy she barely knew, who would most likely disappear out of her life in months, and who was probably in love with someone else. Which, she thought, might be exactly what drew her to him. She knew what it was like to leave someone you loved behind. "Until?" she prompted. Mark's eyelids lifted slowly, showing her the banked fire in gold and blue eyes. "What?" "You said your family, the memory of your family, was all you had until something. Until Kieran?" "Yes," Mark said. "Was he the only one who was kind to you?" "In the Hunt?" said Mark. "There is not kindness in the Hunt. There is respect, and a sort of camaraderie of brothers. They feared Kieran, of course. Kieran is gentry, a Prince of Faerie. His father, the King, gave him to the Hunt as a sign of goodwill to Gwyn, but he also demanded his good treatment. That good treatment was extended to me, but even before Kieran, they came slowly to respect me." His shoulders hunched. "It was worst when we attended the revels. Faeries from all over would come to those, and they did not appreciate a Shadowhunter's attendance. They would do their best to draw me aside, to taunt and torment me." "Did no one intervene?" Mark laughed shortly. "The ways of Faerie are brutal," he said. "Even for the greatest among them. The Queen of the Seelie Court can be deprived of her powers if her crown is stolen. Even Gwyn, who leads the Wild Hunt, must yield authority to any who steals his cloak. You cannot imagine they would show mercy to a half-Shadowhunter boy." His lip curled. "They even had a rhyme they would mock me with." "A rhyme?" Cristina held up a hand. "Never mind, you do not need to tell it to me, not if you don't wish to." "I no longer care," Mark said. "It was an odd bit of doggerel. First the flame and then the flood, in the end it's Blackthorn blood." Cristina sat up straight. "What?" "They claimed it meant Blackthorn blood was destructive, like flood or fire. That whoever made up the rhyme was saying Blackthorns were bad luck. Not that it matters. It's just a bit of nonsense." "That isn't nonsense," Cristina exclaimed. "It means something. The words written on the bodies . . ." She frowned in concentration. "They are the same." "What do you mean?" '"Fire to water,'" she said. "It is the same--they are simply different translations. When English is not your first language, you understand the sense of the words differently. Believe me, 'Fire to water' and 'First the flame and then the flood,' they could be the same thing." "But what does that mean?" "I'm not sure." Cristina pushed her hands into her hair in frustration. "Please, promise me you'll mention it to Emma and Jules as soon as you can. I could be wrong, but. . ." Mark looked baffled. "Yes, of course--" "Promise." "Tomorrow, I promise." His smile was bemused. "It occurs to me that you know a great deal about me, Cristina, and I know very little about you. I know your name, Mendoza Rosales. I know you left something behind in Mexico. What was it?" "Not a something," she said. "Someone." "Perfect Diego?" "And his brother, Jaime." She waved away Mark's raised eyebrow. "One of them I was in love with, and the other was my best friend. They both broke my heart." She was almost astonished to hear the words come out of her mouth. "For your heart twice broken, I am sorry," said Mark. "But is it wrong that I am glad that it brought you into my life? If you had not been here when I arrived--I do not know that I could have borne it. When I first saw Julian, I thought he was my father. I did not know my brother so grown. I left them children, and now they are no longer that. When I knew what I had lost, even with Emma, those years of their lives . . . You are the only one I have not lost something with, but rather gained a new friendship." "Friendship," Cristina agreed. He extended his hand, and she looked at him, bemused. "It is traditional," he said, "among the fey, for a declaration of friendship to be accompanied by a clasp of hands." She put her hand in his. His fingers closed about her own; they were rough where they were calloused, but lithe and strong. And not cool, as she had imagined they would be, but warm. She tried to hold back the shiver that threatened to spread up her arm, realizing how long it had been since she had held someone's hand like this. "Cristina," he said, and her name sounded like music when he spoke it. Neither of them noticed the movement at the window, the flash of a pale face looking in, or the sound of an acorn being viciously crushed between narrow fingers. The large chamber inside the cave hadn't changed since the last time Emma had been in it. The same bronze walls, the same chalked circle on the floor. The same large glass doors fixed into the walls and wavering darkness behind them. Energy crackled against her skin as she walked into the circle. The magic of the glamour. From inside the circle, the room looked different-- the walls seemed faded and flowing, as if they were in an old photograph. The porthole doors were dark. The circle itself was empty, though there was a strange smell inside it, a mixture of sulfur and burned sugar. Making a face, Emma stepped out of the circle and approached the leftmost porthole door. Up close it no longer looked dark. There was light behind it. It was illuminated from within, like a museum display. She stepped closer still and stared through the glass. Beyond the glass door was a small, square space, like a closet. Inside it was a large brass candelabra, though there were no candles fastened to the holders. It would have made a wicked weapon, Emma thought, with its long spikes, meant to be jammed into soft wax. There was also a small pile of what looked to Emma like ceremonial clothes--a dark red velvet robe, a pair of long earrings that flashed with rubies. Delicate gold sandals. Was the necromancer a woman? Emma stepped quickly to the second door. With her nose to the glass, she could see what looked like water. It surged and moved, and dark shapes slipped through it--one bumped against the glass, and she jumped back with a shout before realizing that it was only a small, striped fish with orange eyes. It gazed at her for a moment before disappearing back into the dark water. She lifted her witchlight close to the glass, and now the water was truly visible--it was radiant, a deep blue-green, the color of Blackthorn eyes. She could see fish and drifting seaweed and strange lights and colors beyond the glass. Apparently they were dealing with a necromancer who liked aquariums and fish. Maybe even turtles. Shaking her head, Emma stepped back. Her eyes lit on the metal object fixed between the doors. At first she had thought it looked like a carved knife sticking out of the wall, but now she realized it was a lever. She reached out and closed her hand around it. It was cold under her fingers. She yanked it down. For a moment nothing happened. Then both of the porthole doors swung wide. An unearthly howl tore through the room. Emma turned and stared in horror. The second porthole was wide open and glowing bright blue, and Emma could see that it wasn't an aquarium at all--it was a door into the ocean. A great, deep universe of water opened on the other side of the door, of whipping seaweed and surging currents and the dark, shadowy shapes of things much bigger than fish. The stench of salt water was everywhere. Flood, Emma thought, and then she found herself lifted off her feet and dragged toward the ocean as if she were being sucked down a drain. She only had time to scream once before she was hauled through the doorway and the water closed over her head. Cameron Ashdown. Julian was painting. Cristina had given him Emma's note after he'd left the attic: a terse note, to the point, just saying she was going to Cameron's and not to wait up. He'd crumpled it up in his hand and muttered something to Cristina. A second later he was sprinting toward the stairs and his studio. Ripping open his supply cabinet, tumbling out the paints. Unzipping his gear jacket, throwing it down, yanking the caps off the tubes of oil paint and squeezing the colors onto the palette until the sharp smell of the paint filled the room and cut through the fog in his head. He attacked the canvas, holding the brush like a weapon, and the paint seemed to spill out of him like blood. He was painting in black and red and gold, letting the events of the past days drain out of him as if they were poisonous venom. The brush slashed across the blank canvas and there was Mark on the beach, the moonlight shining across the vicious scars on his back. There was Ty with his knife to Kit Rook's throat. Tavvy screaming with his nightmares. Mark cringing away from Julian's stele. He was aware he was sweating, his hair sticking to his forehead. He tasted salt and paint in his mouth. He knew he shouldn't be here; he should be doing what he always did: minding Tavvy, finding new books to feed Ty's curiosity, putting healing runes on Livvy when she cut herself fencing, sitting with Dru while she watched bad horror films. He should be with Emma. But Emma wasn't here; she was off having her own life, and that was as it should be, as parabatai were meant to be. It wasn't a marriage, the parabatai bond. It was something there were no words for in mundane English. He was meant to want Emma's happiness more than he wanted his own, and he did. He did. So why did he feel like he was being stabbed to death from the inside? He fumbled for the gold paint, because the longing was rising up in him, beating in his veins, and only painting her would take it away. And he couldn't paint her without gold. He caught up the tube and-- Choked. The brush rattled from his hand onto the ground, and he crumpled to his knees. He was gasping, his chest spasming. He couldn't drag air into his lungs. His eyes burned and the back of his throat burned too. Salt. He was choking on salt. Not the salt of blood, but the salt of the ocean. He tasted the sea in his mouth and coughed, his body clenching as he spat up seawater onto the floor. Seawater? He wiped the back of his hand across his mouth, his heart pounding. He'd gone nowhere near the ocean today. And yet he could hear it in his ears, as if he were listening to a seashell. His body ached, and his parabatai rune throbbed. Shocked and dizzy, he placed his hand over the rune. And he knew. He knew without knowing how he knew, knew it down in his soul where his connection to Emma had been forged in blood and fire. He knew in the way that she was a part of him, the way her breathing was his breathing, and her dreams were his dreams, and her blood was his blood, and when her heart stopped he knew that his would too, and he would be glad, because he wouldn't want to live one second in a world that didn't have her in it. He closed his eyes and saw the ocean rise up behind his eyelids, blue-black and depthless, charged with the force of the first wave that had ever crashed on the first lonely beach. And he knew. Whither thou goest, I will go. "Emma," he whispered, and took off at a run. Emma was not sure what terrified her most about the ocean. There was the rage of the waves--dark blue and tipped with white like lace, they were deceptively beautiful, but as they neared the shore, they closed in like fists. She had been trapped by a breaking wave once and she remembered the feeling of falling, as if she were plunging down an elevator shaft, and then the force of the water pinning her to the sand. She had choked and struggled, trying to free herself, to push her way back up to the air. There was also the depth of it. She had read, before, about people who had been abandoned out to sea, how they had gone insane thinking about what was below them: the miles and miles of water and the dark and toothy and slippery things that lived in it. As she was slammed through the porthole door and into the ocean, salt water swallowed Emma, filled her eyes and ears. She was surrounded by water, blackness opening up below her like a pit. She could see the pale square of the porthole door, receding in the distance, but try as she might, she couldn't kick her way toward it. The current was too strong. Hopelessly, she looked up. Her witchlight stone was gone, sinking through the water below her. The light from the ever-receding porthole lit the area around her, but she could see nothing but darkness above. Her ears were popping. Raziel only knew how deep down she was. The water near the porthole was pale green, the color of jade, but everywhere else it was black as death. She reached for a stele. Her lungs were already aching. Floating in the water, kicking out against the current, she jammed the tip of the stele against her arm and scrawled a Breathing rune. The ache in her lungs eased. With the pain gone, the fear came crashing in, blinding in its intensity. The Breathing rune kept her from struggling for air, but the horror of what might be around her was nearly as intense. She reached for the seraph blade in her belt and pulled it free. Manukel, she thought. The blade came to life in her hand, spilling out light, and the water around her turned to murky gold. For a moment Emma was dazzled; then her vision cleared, and she saw them. Demons. She screamed, and the bubbles rose up around her, silent. They were below her, like nightmares rising: lumpy, slippery creatures. Waving tentacles crowned with jagged teeth flailed toward her. She swung Manukel and severed the spiked limb reaching for her leg. Black blood exploded into the water, billowing up in clouds. A scarlet, snakelike thing shot toward her through the water. She kicked out, collided with something fleshy and soft. She gagged on revulsion and stabbed downward; more blood spilled. The sea around her was turning to charcoal. She kicked up toward the surface, carried on a billow of demon blood. As she rose, she could see the white moon, a blurred pearl on the surface of the water. The Breathing rune had burned off her skin; her lungs felt as if they were collapsing. She could feel the churn of water under her feet, didn't dare to look down. She reached up, up toward where the water ended, felt her hand break the surface, the chill of air on her fingers. Something caught at her wrist. Her seraph blade fell from her hand, a glowing point of light that tumbled away from her as she was hauled to the surface of the water. She gasped in air, but it was too soon. Water filled her lungs, her chest, and darkness slammed into her with the force of a truck. Idris, 2009 It was at Emma and Julian's parabatai ceremony that she learned two important things. The first was that she wasn't the only Carstairs left in the world. Their parabatai ceremony was performed in Idris, because they had fought in the Dark War, and their valor was recognized. At least, Julian said, it was recognized sometimes--not when they really wanted anything important, like his sister back from Wrange! Island, but when the Nephilim felt like throwing a party about how awesome Nephilim were, it was always a feature. When they arrived, they looked around the streets of Alicante, astonished. The last time they had been in the capital city of Idris, it had been wrecked by the Dark War. The streets torn up, nails hammered into walls to keep out faeries, the doors of the Accords Hall torn away. Now it was pristine again, the cobblestones back in place, the canals winding by the houses, and the demon towers glimmering over it all. "It seems smaller," Julian said, looking around from the Accords Hall steps. "It's not that it's smaller." The voice belonged to a young man with dark hair and dark eyes, smiling down at them. "It's that you've grown." They stared at him. "Don't you remember me?" he said. He lowered his voice as if he were quoting. "Emma Cordelia Carstairs. Stay with your parabatai. Sometimes it's braver not to fight. Protect them, and save your vengeance for another day." "Brother Zachariah?" Emma was astonished. "You helped us during the Dark War--" "I am no longer a Silent Brother, " he said. "Only an ordinary man. My name is James. James Carstairs. But everyone calls me Jem." There was astonishment, and there was chatter, and Julian gave Emma space to be shocked and to pepper former Brother Zachariah with questions. Jem explained that he had become a Silent Brother in 1878, but he had shed the role now so that he could marry the woman he loved, the warlock Tessa Gray. Julian asked if that meant he was a hundred and fifty years old and Jem admitted that he nearly was, though he didn't look it. He looked about twenty-three. "Why didn't you tell me back then?" Emma demanded as they wended their way into the Silent City, down long stone staircases. "That you were a Carstairs?" "I thought I might die," he said candidly. "It was a battle. It seemed a cruel thing to tell you if I wasn't going to live through the day. And after that Tessa cautioned me that I should give you time, to grieve for your parents, to adjust to your new life. " He turned and looked at her, and his expression was both sorrowful and affectionate. "You're a Shadowhunter, Emma. And neither Tessa nor I are Nephilim, not anymore. To come and live with me, though you would be welcome, you'd have to give up being a Shadowhunter. And that was too cruel a choice to place in front of you." "Come and live with you?" It was Julian, a warning sharp in his tone. "Why would she do that? She has a home. She has a family." "Exactly, " Jem said. "And there is more. Can you give me a moment alone with Emma?" Julian checked in with Emma with his eyes, and she nodded. He turned and made his way down the stairs, glancing back several times to make sure she was all right. Jem touched her arm with light fingers. She was wearing ceremonial gear, ready for the ritual, but she could feel the scar she had given herself with Cortana flare when he touched her, as if recognizing their shared blood. "I wanted to be here for you, for this, " he said. "For I had a parabatai myself once, and the bond of it is precious to me." Emma didn't ask what had happened to Jem's parabatai. Silent Brothers were forbidden from having parabatai, and besides, a hundred and thirty years was a long, long time. "But I don't know when I can be with you again,"he said. "Tessa and I, we have to find something. Something important." He hesitated. "It will be dangerous looking for it, but once it's found Td like to be part of your life once more. Like a sort of uncle. " He gave a half smile. "You might not guess it, but I have a lot of experience in being an uncle." His gaze was steady on hers, and though there was no physical resemblance between them, for that moment Emma was reminded of her father--of his level gaze and kind face. "I'd like that," she said. "Can I ask you one more thing?" He nodded, his expression serious. It was easy to imagine him as an uncle: He looked so young, but there was a calm certainty underneath that made him seem ageless, like a faerie or a warlock. "Yes?" "Did you send me your cat?" "Church?" He started to laugh. "Yes. Has he been taking care of you? Did he bring you the gifts I gave?" "The shells and sea glass?" She nodded. "The bracelet Julian's wearing is made out of sea glass Church brought me. " His laughter softened into a smile that was a little bit sad. "As it should be," he said. "What belongs to one parabatai, belongs to the other. For you are one heart now. And one soul. " Jem stayed with Emma through the ceremony, which was witnessed by Simon and Clary, whom she suspected would become parabatai themselves one day. After the ceremony, Julian and Emma were led through the streets to the Accords Hall, where there was a special dinner in their honor. Tessa--a pretty, brown-haired girl who looked about Clary's age--had joined them, hugging Emma tightly and exclaiming over Cortana, which she said she had seen before a long time ago. Other parabatai got up and spoke about their bond and their experiences. Waves of radiant happiness seemed to come off the pairs of best friends as they talked. Jace and Alec spoke about nearly dying in the demon realms together, grinning, and Emma felt a sense of joy at the thought that one day she and Jules would be up there, smiling dopily at each other and talking about how their bond had gotten them through times when they'd thought they were going to die. At some point during the speeches, Jem had slipped quietly from his chair and disappeared through the doors to Angel Square. Tessa had dropped her napkin and hurried after him; as the doors closed, Emma could see them on the dimly lit steps. Jem had his head down on Tessa's shoulder. She wanted to go after them, but she was already being swept up to the front of the Hall by Clary and made to give some sort of speech, and Julian was with her, smiling that calm smile that hid a million thoughts. And Emma had been happy. She'd been wearing one of her first great thrift store finds, a real gown, not like the ragged jeans she usually wore until they fell to pieces. Instead she'd put on a brown Paraphernalia dress scattered with pale gold blossoms like sunflowers growing out of a field and let her hair, which reached her waist, out of its usual ponytail. She'd shot up like a weed in the past year, and she nearly reached dace's shoulder when he came over to congratulate her and Julian. She'd had the worst crush of all time on dace when she was twelve and she still felt a little awkward around him. He was nearly nineteen years old now, and even better-looking than he had been -- taller, broader, tanned, and with his hair bleached from sunlight, but more than anything else, happier- looking. She remembered a tense-looking, beautiful boy who burned with revenge and heavenly fire, and now he looked at ease with himself. Which was nice. She was happy for him, and for Clary, who smiled and waved at her across the room. But she no longer got butterflies in her stomach when he smiled at her, or wanted to crawl under something and die when he hugged her and told her she looked pretty in her new dress. "You've got a lot of responsibility now, " he said to Julian. "You'll have to make sure she winds up with a guy who deserves her." Julian was strangely white-faced. Maybe he was feeling the effects of the ceremony, Emma thought. It had been strong magic, and she still felt it sizzling through her blood like champagne bubbles. But Jules looked as if he were getting sick. "What about me?" Emma said quickly. "Don't I have to make sure Jules winds up with someone who deserves him?" "Absolutely. I did it for Alec, Alec did it for me -- well, actually, he hated Clary at first, but he came around. " "I bet you didn't like Magnus much, either," said Julian, still with the same odd, stiff look on his face. "Maybe not, " said Jace, "but I never would have said so. " "Because it would have hurt Alec's feelings?" Emma asked. "No, " said Jace, "because Magnus would have turned me into a hat rack, " and he wandered back toward Clary, who was laughing with Alec, both of them looking happy. Which was as it should be, Emma thought. One's parabatai should be friends with the person you loved, your spouse or boyfriend or girlfriend, because that was how it worked. Though when she tried to imagine the person she'd be with, someone she might marry and stay with forever, there was only a sort of blurry space. She couldn't picture the person at all. "I have to go," Julian said. "I need some air." He brushed the back of his hand across Emma's cheek before making for the double doors of the Hall. It was a ragged touch: His nails were bitten down to the edges. Later that night Emma woke up from a dream of fiery circles, her skin burning hot, the sheets tangled around her legs. They had been put up in the old Blackthorn manor house, and Julian was far away, down corridors she didn't know like she knew the hallways of the Institute. She went to the window. It was a short drop down to the garden path. She kicked her feet into slippers and climbed outside. The path curved around the gardens. Emma made her way along it, breathing in the cool, clean air of Idris, untouched by smog. The sky above was brilliant with a million stars, totally free of light pollution, and she wished Julian was with her so she could show it to him, and then she heard voices. The Blackthorn manor had burned down quite a long time ago and been rebuilt near to the Herondale manor. Emma wandered down a number of pretty paths until she found a wall. There was a gate set into the wall. As Emma approached it, she could hear the murmured voices more clearly. She crept to the side of the gate and peered through the bars. On the other side, a green lawn sloped down to the Herondale manor, a pile of white and tawny stone. The grass was sparkling with dew under the starlight and starred with the white flowers that grew only in Idris. "And that constellation right there, that's the Rabbit. See how it has ears?" It was Jace's voice. He and Clary were sitting in the grass, shoulder to shoulder. He was wearing jeans and a T-shirt, and Clary was in her nightgown, Jace's jacket around her shoulders. Jace was pointing at the sky. "I'm pretty sure there's no Rabbit constellation," Clary said. She hadn't changed as much as Jace had in the past years--she was still slight, her red hair bright as Christmas, her small face freckled and thoughtful. She had her head against dace's shoulder. "Sure there is," he said, and as the starlight touched his pale curls, Emma felt a faint flutter of her old crush. "And that one there, that's the Hubcap. And there's the Great Pancake." "I'm going back inside, " Clary said. "I was promised an astronomy lesson. " "What? Sailors used to navigate by the Great Pancake, " said dace, and Clary shook her head and started to stand up. dace grabbed her ankle and she laughed and tumbled over on top of him, and then they were kissing and Emma froze, because what had been a casual moment, one she could have interrupted with a friendly hello, had suddenly become something else. dace rolled over on top of Clary in the grass. She had her arms wrapped around him, her hands in his hair. His jacket had fallen off her shoulders and the straps of her nightgown were sliding down her pale arms. Clary was laughing and saying his name, saying maybe they should go back inside, and dace kissed her neck. Clary gasped and Emma heard him say, "Remember the Wayland manor? Remember that time outside?" "I remember. " Her voice was low and throaty. "I didn't think I could have you," dace said. He was propped over Clary on his elbows, tracing the line of her cheek with his finger. "It was like being in Hell. I would have done anything for you. I still would." Clary flattened her hand against his chest, over his heart, and said, "I love you. " He made a noise, a very un-dace-like noise, and Emma jerked herself away from the gate and ran back toward the Blackthorn house. She reached her window and climbed up inside, gasping. The moon shone down like a floodlight, illuminating her room. She kicked off her slippers and sat down on the bed. Her heart was hammering inside her chest. The way dace had looked down at Clary, the way she'd touched his face. She wondered if anyone would ever look at her like that. It didn't seem possible. She couldn't imagine loving anyone that much. Anyone but dules. But that was different. Wasn't it? She couldn't imagine Julian lying on top of her, kissing her like that. They were different, they were something else, weren't they? She lay back down on the bed, looking across the room at the door. Some part of her expected Jules to come through it, to come to her because she was unhappy the way he often did, seeming to know without being told. But why would he think she was unhappy? Today had been her parabatai ceremony; it should have been one of the happiest days of her life except for maybe her wedding day. Instead she felt flushed and strange and full of the strangest urge to cry. Jules, she thought, but the door didn't open, and he didn't come. Instead she curled up around her pillow and lay awake until dawn. <|title|>Chapter 18: All The Night-Tide <|startofchapter|>After the darkness, there was light. Bright white and silver--starlight on water and sand. And Emma was flying. Over the surface of the water, now shallow--she could see the sand of the beach underneath, and a pool of fire where the moon reflected. There was a pain in her chest. She twisted to get away from it and realized she wasn't flying; she was being carried. She was being held against a hard chest and arms were around her. She saw the glimmer of blue-green eyes. Julian. Julian was carrying her. Wet, dark curls crowned his head. She tried to draw in a breath to speak, and choked. Her chest spasmed; water filled her mouth, bitter and salty like blood. She saw Julian's face twist with panic, and then he was half-running up the beach, finally crashing to his knees, depositing her in the sand. She was still coughing, choking, looking up at him with frightened eyes. She saw the same fear mirrored on his face; she wanted to tell him it would be all right, everything was going to be fine, but she couldn't speak past the water in her throat. He fumbled a stele from his belt and she felt the tip burn against her skin. Her head fell back as the rune formed. She saw the moon over her, behind Julian's head like a halo. She wanted to tell him he had a halo. Maybe he'd think it was funny. But the words were drowning in her chest. She was drowning. Dying on land. The rune was finished. Julian pulled the stele back and Emma's chest seemed to cave in. She cried out, and water exploded from her lungs. She curled up, racked with deep coughs. It hurt as her body expelled the seawater. as if she were being turned inside out. She felt Julian's hand on her back, his fingers between her shoulder blades, holding her steady. At last the coughing slowed. She rolled onto her back and stared up at Julian and the sky behind him. She could see a million stars, and he still had his halo, but there was no longer anything funny about it. He was shivering, his black shirt and jeans plastered to his body, his face whiter than the moon. "Emma?" he whispered. "Jules," she said. Her voice sounded weak and rough to her own ears. "I-- I'm all right." "What the hell happened? What were you doing in the water?" "I went to the convergence," she whispered. "There was some kind of spell --it sucked me out into the ocean--" "You went to the convergence by yourself?" His voice rose. "How could you be so reckless?" "I had to try--" "You didn't have to try alone!" His voice seemed to echo off the water. His fists were clenched at his sides. She realized he wasn't shaking from cold after all--it was rage. "What the hell is the point of being parabatai if you go off and risk yourself without me?" "I didn't want to put you in danger--" "I almost drowned inside the Institute! I coughed up water! Water you breathed!" Emma stared at him in shock. She started to prop herself up on her elbows. Her hair, heavy and soaked, hung down her back like a weight. "How is that possible?" "Of course it's possible!" His voice seemed to explode out of his body. "We are bound together, Emma, bound together--I breathe when you breathe, I bleed when you bleed. I'm yours and you're mine, you've always been mine, and I have always, always belonged to you!" She had never heard him say anything like this, never heard him talk this way, never seen him so close to losing control. "I didn't mean to hurt you," she said. She started to sit up, reaching for him. He caught her wrist. "Are you joking?" Even in the darkness, his blue-green eyes had color. "Is this a joke to you, Emma? Don't you understand?" His voice dropped to a whisper. "I don't live if you die!" Her eyes searched his face. "Jules, I'm so sorry, Jules--" The wall that usually hid the truth deep in his eyes had crumbled; she could see the panic there, the desperation, the relief that had punched through his defenses. He was still holding her wrist. She didn't know if she leaned into him first or if he pulled her toward him. Maybe both. They crashed together like stars colliding, and then he was kissing her. Jules. Julian. Kissing her. His mouth moved against hers, hot and restless, turning her body to liquid fire. She clawed at his back, pulling him closer. His clothes were wet, but his skin under them was hot wherever she could touch it. When she placed her hands at his waist, he gasped into her mouth, a gasp that was half incredulity and half desire. "Emma," he said, a word halfway between a prayer and a groan. His mouth was wild on hers; they were kissing as if they were trying to tear down the bars that held them inside a prison. As if they were both drowning and they could breathe only through each other. Her bones felt as if they had turned to glass. They seemed to be shattering all through her body; she crumpled backward, pulling Julian with her, letting the weight of his body push them both down into the sand. She clutched at his shoulders, thought of the disoriented moment when he'd pulled her out of the water, the moment she hadn't quite known who he was. He was stronger, bigger than she remembered. More grown-up than she had let herself know, though every kiss was burning away her memories of the boy he had been. When he leaned closer into her, she jumped in surprise at the wet coldness of his shirt. He reached down and grasped the collar, tearing it over his head. When he leaned back down over her, the expanse of his bare skin stunned her, and her hands slid up his sides, over the wings of his shoulder blades, as if she were articulating the shape of him, creating him with the touch of her palms and fingers. The light scars of his old Marks; the heat of his skin, filmed with salty ocean water; the feel of his smooth sea-glass bracelet--he took her breath away with the Julian- ness of him. There was no one else he could be. She knew him by touch, by the way he breathed, by the beat of his heart against hers. The touch of her hands was undoing him. She could see him unraveling, piece by piece. Her knees came up to clasp his hips; her hand cupped the bare skin above the waistband of his jeans, gently as the ocean at low tide, and he shuddered against her as if he were dying. She had never seen him like this, not even when he was painting. Gasping, he tore his mouth away from hers, forcing himself still, forcing his body to stop moving. She could see what it cost him in his eyes, black with hunger and impatience. In the way that when he drew his hands away, they dug into the sand on either side of her, fingers clawing into the ground. "Emma," he whispered. "You're sure?" She nodded and reached for him. He made a sound of desperate relief and gratitude and caught her against him, and this time there was no hesitation. Her arms were open; he went into them and gathered her up against him, shivering down to his bones as she locked her ankles behind his calves, pinning him against her. As she opened herself, making her body a cradle for him to lie against. He found her mouth with his again, and as if her lips were connected to every nerve ending in her body, her whole self seemed to spark and dance. So this was what it was supposed to be like, what kissing was supposed to be like, what all of it was supposed to be like. This. He leaned in to outline her mouth, her cheek, the sandy curve of her jaw with kisses. He kissed his way down her throat, his breath warm on her skin. Tangling her hands in his wet curls, she stared up in wonder at the sky above them, wheeling with stars, shimmering and cold, and thought that this couldn't be happening, people didn't get things they wanted like this. "Jules," she whispered. "My Julian." "Always," he whispered, returning to her mouth, "always," and they fell into each other with the inevitability of a wave crashing against the beach. Fire raced up and down Emma's veins as the barriers between them vanished; she tried to press each moment, each gesture into her memory-- the feel of his hands closing on her shoulders, the drowning gasp he made, the way he dissolved into her as he lost himself. To the last moment of her life, she thought, she would recall the way he buried his face against her neck and said her name over and over as if every other word had been forgotten forever in the depths of the ocean. To the last hour. When the stars stopped spinning, Emma was lying in the curve of Julian's arm, looking up. His dry flannel jacket was spread over them. He was gazing at her, head propped up on one hand. He looked dazed, his eyes half-lidded. His fingers traced slow circles on her bare shoulder. His heart was still racing, slamming against hers. She loved him so much it felt like her chest was cracking open. She wanted to tell him so, but the words stuck in her throat. "Was that--" she began. "Was that your first kiss?" "No, I've been practicing on random strangers." He grinned, wild and beautiful in the moonlight. "Yes. That was my first kiss." A shiver went through Emma. She thought, I love you, Julian Blackthorn. I love you more than starlight. "It really wasn't that bad," she said, and smiled at him. He laughed and pulled her closer against him. She relaxed into the curve of his body. The air was cold, but she was warm here, in this small circle with Julian, hidden by the outcroppings of rock, wrapped in the flannel jacket that smelled like him. His hand was gentle in her hair. "Shh, Emma. Go to sleep." She closed her eyes. Emma slept, by the side of the ocean. And she had no nightmares. "Emma." There was a hand on her shoulder, shaking her. "Emma, wake up." She rolled over and blinked, then froze in surprise. There was no ceiling over her, only bright blue sky. She felt stiff and sore, her skin abraded by sand. Julian was hovering over her. He was fully dressed, his face gray- white like scattered ash. His hands fluttered around her, not quite touching her, like Ty's butterflies. "Someone was here." At that she did sit up. She was sitting on the beach--a small, bare half circle of a beach, hemmed in on either side by fingers of stone reaching into the ocean. The sand around her was thoroughly churned up, and she blushed, memory crashing into her like a wave. It looked like it was at least midday, though thankfully the beach was deserted. It was familiar, too. They were close to the Institute, closer than she'd thought. Not that she'd thought much. She dragged air into her lungs. "Oh," she said. "Oh my God." Julian didn't say anything. His clothes were wet, crusted with sand where they folded. Her own clothes were on, Emma realized belatedly. Julian must have dressed her. Only her feet were bare. The tide was low, seaweed lying exposed at the waterline. Their footsteps from the night before had long been washed away, but there were other footsteps embedded in the sand. It looked as if someone had climbed over one of the rock walls, walked up to them, and then doubled back and walked away. Two lines of footsteps. Emma stared at them in horror. "Someone saw us?" she said. "While we were sleeping," said Julian. "I didn't wake up either." His hands knotted at his sides. "Some mundane, I hope, just figuring we were a dumb teenage couple." He let out a breath. "I hope," he said again. Flashes of memory of the night before shot through Emma's mind-- the cold water, the demons, Julian carrying her, Julian kissing her. Julian and her, lying entwined on the sand. Julian. She didn't think she could think of him as Jules again. Jules was her childhood name for him. And they had left their childhood behind. He turned to look at her, and she saw the anguish in his sea-colored eyes. "I am so sorry," he whispered. "Emma, I am so, so sorry." "Why are you sorry?" she asked. "I didn't think." He was pacing, his feet kicking up sand. "About--being safe. Protection. I didn't think about it." "I'm protected," she said. He whirled to face her. "What?" "I have the rune," she said. "And I don't have any diseases, and neither do you, do you?" "I--no." The relief on his face was palpable and for some reason made her stomach ache. "That was my first time, Emma." "I know," she said in a whisper. "Anyway, you don't need to apologize." "I do," he said. "I mean, this is good. We're lucky. But I should have thought of it. I don't have an excuse. I was out of my mind." She opened her mouth, then closed it again. "I must have been, to do that," he said. "To do what?" She was impressed by how clearly and calmly each word came out. Anxiety beat through her like a drum. "What we did." He exhaled. "You know what I mean." "You're saying what we did was wrong." "I meant--" He looked as if he were trying to contain something that wanted to tear its way out of him. "There's nothing wrong with it morally," he said. "It's a stupid Law. But it is a Law. And we can't break it. It's one of the oldest Laws there is." "But it doesn't make sense." He looked at her without seeing her, blindly. "The Law is hard, but it is the Law." Emma got to her feet. "No," she said. "No Law can control our feelings." "I didn't say anything about feelings," said Julian. Her throat felt dry. "What do you mean?" "We shouldn't have slept together," he said. "I know it meant something to me. I'd be lying if I said it didn't, but the Law doesn't forbid sex, it forbids love. Being in love." "I'm pretty sure sleeping together is against the rules too." "Yeah, but it's not what they exile you for! It's not what they strip your Marks for!" He raked a hand through his snarled hair. "It's against the rules because--being intimate like that, physically intimate, it opens you up to be emotionally intimate and that's what they care about." "We are emotionally intimate." "You know what I mean. Don't pretend you don't." There are different kinds of closeness, intimacy. They want us to be close. But they don't want this." He gestured around at the beach as if to encompass all of the night before. Emma was shaking. "Eros" she said. "Instead of philia or agape." He looked relieved, as if her explanation meant she understood, she agreed. As if they had made some decision together. Emma wanted to scream. "Philia," he said. "That's what we have--friendship love--and I'm sorry if I did anything to screw that up--" "I was there too," Emma said, and her voice was as cold as the water. He looked at her levelly. "We love each other," he said. "We're parabatai, love is part of the bond. And I'm attracted to you. How could I not be? You're beautiful. And it's not like--" He broke off, but Emma filled the rest in for him, the words so painful they almost seemed to cut at the inside of her head. It's not like I can meet other girls, not like I can date, you're what there is, you're what's around, Cristina's probably still in love with someone in Mexico, there isn't anyone forme. There's just you. "It's not like I'm blind," he said. "I can see you, and I want you, but--we can't. If we do, we'll end up falling in love, and that would be a disaster." "Falling in love," Emma echoed. How could he not see she was already fallen, in every way you could be? "Didn't I tell you I loved you? Last night?" He shook his head. "We never said we loved each other," he said. "Not once." That couldn't be true. Emma searched her memories, as if she were rummaging desperately through her pockets for a lost key. She'd thought it. Julian Blackthorn, I love you more than starlight. She'd thought it but she hadn't said it. And neither had he. We're bound together, he'd said. But not: I love you. She waited for him to say, I was out of my mind because you risked your life or You almost died and it made me crazy or any variety of It was your fault. She thought that if he did, she would blow up like an activated land mine. But he didn't. He stood looking at her, his flannel jacket shoved up to his elbows, his exposed bare skin red from cold water and scratched with sand. She had never seen him look so sad. She lifted her chin. "You're right. It's better if we forget it." He winced at that. "I do love you, Emma." She rubbed her hands together for warmth, thought of the way the ocean wore down even stone walls over the years, wringing fragments out of what had once been impregnable. "I know," she said. "Just not like that." The first thing Emma saw when they returned to the Institute--having told Julian the story of her experience at the convergence on their way back from the beach--was that the car she'd left at the cave entrance the night before was parked at the foot of the front steps. The second was that Diana was sitting on the car's hood, looking madder than a hornet. "What were you thinking?" she demanded as Emma and Julian stopped dead in their tracks. "Seriously, Emma, have you lost your mind?" For a moment Emma felt actually dizzy--Diana couldn't be talking about her and Julian, could she? She wasn't the one who'd found them on the beach? She glanced sideways at Julian, but he was as white- faced with shock as she felt. Diana's dark eyes bored into her. "I'm waiting for an explanation," she said. "What made you think it was a good idea to go to the convergence by yourselves?" Emma was too surprised to formulate a comeback. "What?" Diana's eyes flicked from Julian to Emma and back again. "I didn't get the message about the convergence until this morning," she said. "I raced over there and found the car, empty. Abandoned. I thought--you don't know what I thought, but. . ." Emma felt a stab of guilt. Diana had been worried about her. And about Julian, who had never even gone to the convergence. "I'm sorry," Emma said, meaning it. Her conviction of the night before, her resolve that she was doing the right thing in going to the convergence, had evaporated. She felt weary now, and no closer to an answer. "I got the message and just went--I didn't want to wait. And please don't be angry at Julian. He wasn't with me. He found me later." "Found you?" Diana looked puzzled. "Found you where?" "On the beach," said Emma. "There are doorways in the cave--sort of Portals--and one of them empties right out into the ocean." Now Diana's expression was truly concerned. "Emma, you ended up in the water? But you hate the ocean. How did you--" "Julian came and pulled me out," said Emma. "He felt me panicking in the water. Parabatai thing." She glanced sideways at Julian, whose gaze was clear and open. Trustworthy. Not hiding anything. "It took us a long time to walk back." "Well, finding the seawater is interesting," said Diana, sliding off the car's hood. "I assume it's the same water found with the bodies." "How did you get the car back?" Emma asked as they started up the stairs. "What you mean, of course, is 'thank you, Diana, for bringing the car back,"' Diana said as they came inside the Institute. She glanced critically up and down Julian's and Emma's wet, sandy clothes, scraped skin, and matted hair. "How about I gather everyone in the library. It's past time for an information exchange." Julian cleared his throat. "Why didn't you?" Diana and Emma both looked at him in puzzlement. "Why didn't who, what?" Diana asked finally. "Why didn't you get the message about the convergence until this morning? My phone was dead, which was stupid of me, but--what about you?" "Nothing you need concern yourself with," Diana said shortly. "Anyway, go shower. I get that you have important information, but until you clean off the sand, I don't think I could concentrate on anything but how badly you two must itch." Emma meant to change when she got back to her room. She genuinely did. But despite her hours of sleep on the beach, she was exhausted enough that the moment she sat down on the bed, she collapsed. Hours later, after a fast shower, she threw on clean jeans and a tank top and raced out into the hallway, feeling like a mundane teenager late for class. She flew down the hall to the library to find everyone else already there; in fact, they looked as if they'd been there for a while. Ty was sitting at one end of the longest library table in a pool of afternoon sunshine, a pile of papers in front of him. Mark was by his side; Livvy was balanced on top of the table, barefoot, dancing back and forth with her saber. Diana and Dru were amusing Tavvy with a book. "Diana said you went to the convergence," said Livvy, waving her saber as Emma came in. Cristina, who had been standing by a shelf of books, gave her an uncharacteristically cool look. "Fighting Mantids without me," Mark said, and smiled. "Hardly fair." "There weren't any Mantids," said Emma. She hopped up onto the table across from Ty, who was still scribbling, and launched into the story of what she had found in the cave. Halfway through her recitation, Julian came in, his hair as damp as Emma's. He was wearing a jade-colored T-shirt that turned his eyes dark green. Their eyes met, and Emma forgot what she was saying. "Emma?" Cristina prompted after a long pause. "You were saying? You found a dress?" "This doesn't sound very likely," said Livvy. "Who keeps a dress in a cave?" "It might have been a ceremonial outfit," Emma said. "It was an elaborate robe--and very elaborate jewels." "So maybe the necromancer is a woman," said Cristina. "Maybe it really is Belinda." "She didn't strike me as that powerful," said Mark. "You can sense power?" asked Emma. "Is that a faerie thing?" Mark shook his head, but the half smile he gave felt to Emma like a sliver of Faerie. "Just a feeling." "But speaking of faerie things, Mark did give us the key to translate more of the markings," said Livvy. "Really?" said Emma. "What do they say?" Ty looked up from the papers. "He gave us the second line, and after that it was easier. Livvy and I worked out most of the third. From looking at the patterns of the markings, it seems to be about five or six lines, repeated." "Is it a spell?" Emma said. "Malcolm said it was probably a summoning spell." Ty rubbed at his face, leaving a smear of ink across one cheekbone. "It doesn't look like a summoning spell. Maybe Malcolm made a mistake. We've done a lot better than him on the translation," he added proudly as Livvy put her saber away and crouched down on the table beside him. She reached out to rub the ink from his cheek with her sleeve. "Malcolm doesn't have Mark," said Julian, and Mark gave Julian a quick, surprised smile of gratitude. "Or Cristina," said Mark. "I would never have figured out the connection if Cristina had not realized it was an issue of translation." Cristina blushed. "So how does the third line go, Tiberius?" Ty batted Livvy's hand away and recited: First the flame and then the flood. In the end, it's Blackthorn blood. Seek thou to forget what's past-- "That's it," he finished. "That's what we have so far." "Blackthorn blood?" echoed Diana. She had climbed up onto a library ladder to hand a book down to Tavvy. Emma frowned. "I don't really love the sound of that." "There's no indication of traditional blood magic," said Julian. "None of the bodies had those kinds of cuts or wounds." "I wonder about the mention of the past," said Mark. "These kind of rhymes, in Faerie, often encode a spell--like the ballad of Thomas the Rhymer.' It is both a story and instructions on how to break someone free of Faerie." For a moment Diana's face was arrested midexpression, as if she had either suddenly realized or suddenly remembered something. "Diana?" Julian said. "Are you okay?" "Fine." She climbed down from the ladder and dusted off her clothes. "I need to make a call." "Who are you calling?" Julian asked, but Diana only shook her head, her hair brushing her shoulders. "I'll be back," she said, and slipped out the library door. "But what does it mean?" Emma said to the room at large. "In the end. Blackthorn blood what?" "And if it's a faerie rhyme, then shouldn't they know if there's more of it?" Dru spoke up from the corner where she was busy distracting Tavvy. "The Fair Folk, I mean. They're meant to be on our side for this." "I have sent a message," Mark said guardedly. "But I will tell you, I only ever heard those two lines of it." "The most significant thing it means is that somehow this situation-- the murders, the bodies, the Followers--is tied to this family." Julian looked around. "Somehow, it's connected to us. To the Blackthorns." "That would explain why all this is happening in Los Angeles," said Mark. "It is our home." Emma saw Julian's expression flicker slightly, and knew what he was thinking: that Mark had spoken of Los Angeles as a place they all lived, not a place where everyone lived but him. That he had spoken of it as home. There was a loud buzzing sound. The map of Los Angeles on the table had started to vibrate. What looked like a small red dot was moving across it. "Sterling's left his house," Cristina said, reaching for the map. "Belinda Belle said he had two days," said Julian. "That could mean the hunt starts tomorrow, or it could mean tonight, depending on how they're counting. Anyway, we can't assume." "Cristina and I will follow him," Emma said. She was desperate to get out of the house suddenly, desperate to clear her head, desperate even to get away from Julian. Mark frowned. "We should go with you--" "No!" Emma said, hopping down from the table. Everyone turned to look at her in surprise; she had spoken with more force than she meant to--the truth was, she wanted to talk to Cristina alone. "We're going to have to take it in shifts," she said. "We're going to have to tail Sterling twenty-four/seven until something happens, and if we all go every time, we'll just end up with everyone exhausted. Cristina and I will go for a while, and then we can switch off with Julian and Mark, or Diana." "Or me and Ty," suggested Livvy sweetly. Julian's eyes were troubled. "Emma, are you sure--" "Emma is right," Cristina said, unexpectedly. "Taking shifts is the cautious thing to do." Cautious. Emma couldn't remember that word being applied to her in recent history. Julian glanced away, hiding his expression. At last, he said, "Fine. You win. You two go. But if you need any backup, swear that you'll call right away." His gaze locked with Emma's as he spoke. The others were talking, discussing how they should search the library, look back through books detailing different kinds of spells, how long it would take to finish the rest of the translation, whether Malcolm might come to help them, whether they should order vampire pizza. "Come on, Emma," said Cristina, rising to her feet and folding the map into her jacket pocket. "We should get going. We need to change into gear and catch up to Sterling--he's heading toward the freeway." Emma nodded and turned to follow Cristina. She could feel Julian's gaze on her, like a sharp point between her shoulder blades. Don't turn back to look at him, she told herself, but she couldn't help it; at the door, she turned, and the look on his face almost undid her. He looked like she felt. Hollow and bled dry. It wasn't that she was walking away from the boy she loved with a thousand words unsaid between them, Emma thought, though it was true that she was doing that. It was that she was terrified that a rift had opened between her and the person who had been her best friend as long as she could remember. And from the look of it, Julian was afraid of the same thing. "Sorry," Emma said, as the car righted itself. They'd been driving around for several hours as Sterling hurtled all over the city, and her hands were starting to ache from gripping the wheel. Cristina sighed. "Are you going to tell me what's bothering you?" Emma shifted. She was wearing her gear jacket, and it was hot in the car. She felt as if all her skin was itching. "I'm really, really sorry, Tina," she said. "I didn't think--I shouldn't have asked you to cover up for me when I went to the convergence. It wasn't fair." Cristina was silent for a moment. "I would have done it," she said. "If you'd told me what it was about." Emma's throat felt tight. "I'm not used to trusting people. But I should have trusted you. When you leave, I don't know what I'm going to do. I'm going to miss you so much." Cristina smiled at her. "Come to the D.F.," she said. "See how we do things there. You can take your travel year in my city." She paused. "I forgive you, by the way." A small weight lifted from Emma's chest. "I'd love to go to Mexico," she said. "And Julian would--" She broke off. Of course most people with parabatai accompanied them on their travel year. But the thought of Julian hurt, a sharp quick pain like a needle stick. "Are you going to tell me what's bothering you?" Cristina asked. "No," Emma said. "Fine. Then turn left onto Entrada," Cristina said. "It's like having supernatural GPS," Emma observed. She could see Cristina scowling at the map across her knees in the passenger seat. "We head toward Santa Monica," Cristina said, tracing a finger along the map. "Go down Seventh." "Sterling's an idiot," Emma said. "He knows someone's trying to kill him. He shouldn't be wandering around the city." "He probably thinks his own house isn't that safe," Cristina pointed out reasonably. "I mean, I ambushed him there." "Right," Emma said. She couldn't stop worrying a rip in the knee of her gear. The memory of Julian on the beach, the things he had said to her, pressed against the backs of her eyes. She let the thoughts pass through her. When it came time, she'd have to let them all go and concentrate on the fight. "And, of course, there are the enormous bunny rabbits," Cristina said. "What?" Emma snapped back to the present. "I've been talking at you for the last three minutes! Where is your mind, Emma?" "I slept with Julian," Emma said. Cristina shrieked. Then she clapped her hands over her mouth and stared at Emma as if Emma had just announced there was a grenade strapped to the roof of the car and about to explode. "Did you hear what I said?" Emma asked. "Yes," Cristina said, taking her hands away from her mouth. "You slept with Julian Blackthorn." Emma's breath whooshed out of her in a rush. There was something about hearing it said back to her that made her feel as if she'd been gut punched. "I thought you weren't going to tell me what was wrong!" Cristina said. "I changed my mind." "Why?" They were whipping around corners lined with palm trees, stucco houses set back from the streets. Emma knew she was driving too fast; she didn't care. "I mean--I was in the ocean, and he pulled me out, and things got out of hand--" "No," Cristina said. "Not why did you do it. Why did you change your mind about telling me?" "Because I'm a horrible liar," Emma said. "You would have guessed." "Maybe. Maybe not." Cristina took a deep breath. "I suppose I should ask the real question. Do you love him?" Emma didn't say anything. She kept her eyes on the broken yellow line in the middle of the road. The sun was a fiery orange ball lowering in the west. Cristina exhaled slowly. "You do love him." "I didn't say that." "It's all over your face," Cristina said. "I know what that looks like." She sounded sad. "Don't pity me, Tina," Emma said. "Please don't." "I'm just frightened for you. The Law is very clear, and the punishments are so severe." "Well, it doesn't matter," said Emma, her voice tinged with bitterness. "He doesn't love me. And being unrequitedly in love with your parabatai isn't illegal, so don't worry." "He what?" Cristina said, sounding shocked. "He doesn't love me," said Emma. "He was very clear about that." Cristina opened her mouth, and then closed it again. "I guess it's flattering that you're surprised," Emma said. "I don't know what to say." Cristina put her hand over her heart. "There are the things you would normally say in this situation. If it was anyone else but Julian I'd be telling you how lucky he was to have someone as brave and smart as you are in love with him. I would be scheming with you about how we could make such a silly boy realize such an obvious thing. But it is Julian, and it is illegal, and you must not do anything more, Emma. Promise me." "He doesn't want me that way," Emma said. "So it doesn't matter. I just--" She broke off. She didn't know what else to say or how to say it. There was never going to be another Julian for her. Don't think that way. Just because you can't imagine loving anyone else doesn't mean that you won't. But the soft inner voice of her father didn't reassure her this time. "I just don't know why it's illegal," she finished, though that had not been what she had meant to say. "It doesn't make any sense. Julian and I have done everything together, for years, we've lived and nearly died for each other, how could there be anyone else better for me than him? Anyone else better--" She broke off again. "Emma, please don't think like this. It doesn't matter why it's illegal. It just matters that it is. The Law is hard, but it is the Law." "A bad law is no law," Emma countered, swinging a hard right onto Pico Boulevard. Pico ran almost the full length of metropolitan Los Angeles--it was swanky, gritty, dangerous, abandoned, and industrial by turns. Here between the freeway and the ocean it was full of small businesses and restaurants. "That motto has not served the Blackthorns well," Cristina murmured, and Emma was about to ask her what she meant when Cristina sat up straight. "Here," she said, pointing. "Sterling's here. I just saw him go into that building." On the south side of the road was a low, sloping brown-painted building, windowless, with a single door and a sign proclaiming no one under 21 ALLOWED. "Looks friendly," Emma muttered, and pulled over to park. They got out of the car and went to collect their weapons. They already bore glamour runes, and the few pedestrians passing by--hardly anyone walked in L.A., and while there were plenty of cars around, there were very few people--looked through them as if they weren't there. A girl with bright green hair glanced at Emma as she passed by, but didn't stop. "You're right," Emma said as they buckled on their seraph blades. Each blade had a small hook that allowed it to be affixed to a weapons belt and removed with a quick downward jerk of the hand. "About Julian. I know you are." Cristina gave her a quick, one-armed hug. "And you will do the right thing. I know you will." Emma was already scanning the building, looking for entrances. There were no windows that she could see, but a narrow alley snaked around the back of the bar, partially blocked by an overgrown patch of needle grass. She gestured toward it, and she and Cristina slipped silently through the low, dusty vegetation that grew--barely--in the polluted air. The sun was setting, and it was dark in the alley behind the bar. A row of chained-together trash cans were propped under a barred and boarded-up window. "I can get the bars off, if I climb up there," Emma whispered, indicating the trash cans. "Okay, wait." Cristina pulled out her stele. "Runes." Cristina's runes were careful, precise, and beautiful. Emma could feel the power of a strength rune jolt through her like a kick of caffeine. It wasn't like having Julian put runes on her--that felt as if his strength were flowing into her, doubling her own. Cristina turned around, shrugging her jacket down, presenting the line of her bare shoulder to Emma. She handed the stele to Emma, who began to draw--two overlapping Soundless runes, Sure-Strike, Flexibility. "Please don't think I'm angry," Cristina said, facing the opposite wall. "I worry for you, is all. You are so strong, Emma. You are strong down to your bones. People live through heartbreak, and you are strong enough to live through it many times. But Julian is not someone who can just touch your heart. He can touch your soul. And there is a difference between having your heart break and having your soul shatter." The stele faltered in Emma's hand. "I thought the Angel had a plan." "He does. But please don't love him, Emma." Cristina's voice broke. "Please." There was a catch in Emma's throat when she spoke. "Who broke your heart?" Cristina turned around, shrugging her jacket back on. Her brown eyes were serious. "You told me a secret, so I will tell you a secret. I was in love with Diego, and I thought he was in love with me. But it was all a lie. I thought his brother was my best friend, but that was a lie too. That is why I ran away. Why I came here." She looked away. "I lost them both. My best friend and my best love, on the same day. It was hard for me to believe that Raziel had a plan then." My best friend and my best love. Cristina took the stele and slid it back into her belt. "I'm not the one who's strong, Tina. That's you." Cristina gave her a quick smile and held out her hand. "Go." Grabbing Cristina's hand, Emma pushed off to propel herself upward. Her boots hit the top of the trash cans, making the chain rattle. She grabbed the bars of the window and pulled, liking the bite of the metal into her palms. The bars pulled free of the soft stucco with a shower of tiny pebbles. Emma handed the metal grid down, and Cristina tossed it into the grass. Emma reached a hand down, and a second later Cristina was beside her and they were both peering into a smudged window at a dirty back kitchen. Water was running in a massive metal sink full of glasses. Emma drew her foot back, ready to smash the glass with the steel tip of her boot. Cristina caught her shoulder. "Wait." She bent down and grabbed the window by its frame. The Strength rune on her neck buckled and glowed as she wrenched the rotted frame free and dropped it onto the plastic trash cans below. "Quieter that way," she said. Emma grinned and swung in through the window, landing on top of a crate full of vodka bottles. She sprang down and Cristina followed her. Cristina's boots hit the floor just as the kitchen door swung open and a short man in a bartender's apron with spiked black hair came into the room. The moment he caught sight of Emma and Cristina he let out a startled yelp. Great, Emma thought. He had the Sight. "Hello there," she said. "We're from the Department of Health. Did you know that there is no antibacterial hand gel left in these dispensers?" This did not seem to impress the bartender. His gaze went from Emma to Cristina to the open window. "What the hell are you bitches doing, breaking in here? I'm gonna call the--" Emma picked up a wooden spoon from the draining board and threw it. It thunked into the side of the bartender's head. He went down in a heap. She strolled over and checked his pulse; it was regular. She glanced up at Cristina. "I hate being called a bitch." Cristina moved past her and pushed the door open, peeking out, while Emma dragged the bartender into the corner of the room and pushed him gently behind the stacked crates of bottles. Cristina wrinkled up her nose. "Yuck." Emma let go of the bartender's feet. They thumped to the ground. "What? Is something horrible happening out there?" "No, it's just a really disgusting bar," said Cristina. "Why would anyone want to drink here?" Emma joined her at the door and they both peered out. "Bars in the D.F. are much nicer," Cristina said. "I think someone has thrown up in that corner." She pointed. Emma didn't look, but she believed it. The bar wasn't just dimly lit, it was barely lit. The floor was concrete, strewn with cigarette butts. There was a zinc-countered bar, and a mirror behind it on which drink prices had been scrawled in marker. Men in flannel shirts and jeans crowded around a ragged-felt pool table. Others stood silently drinking at the bar. The place smelled like sour, old beer and cigarette smoke. Hunched at the far end of the bar was a man in a familiar herringbone jacket. Sterling. "There he is," said Emma. "The Tracking rune doesn't lie." Cristina ducked under Emma's arm and stepped into the room. Emma followed. She felt the slight pressure on her skin that came with the gaze of many mundane eyes, but her glamour runes held. The single bartender looked up as the kitchen door swung shut, probably searching for his coworker, but turned back to polishing glasses when he didn't see anything. As Emma and Cristina approached, an extraordinary expression crossed Sterling's face. A mixture of shock, followed by despair, followed by a sort of hilarity. There was a glass on the bar in front of him, half-full of golden liquid; he grabbed it up and tossed back the drink. When he slammed the glass back down on the bar, his eyes were gleaming. "Nephilim," he snarled. The bartender looked over at him in surprise. Several of the other customers shifted on their stools. "That's right," Sterling said. "They think I'm crazy." He whipped his arm out to indicate the other bar patrons. "I'm talking to no one. Empty air. But you. You don't care. You're here to torture me." He staggered to his feet. "Whoa," Emma said. "You are drunk." Sterling popped off two finger guns in her direction. "Very observant, blondie." "Dude!" The bartender slammed a glass down on the countertop. "If you're going to talk to yourself, do it outside. You're ruining the ambiance." "This place has ambiance?" said Emma. "Emma, focus," said Cristina. She turned to Sterling. "We're not here to torture you. We're here to help you. We keep telling you that." "Keep telling yourselves that," he hissed, and yanked a clump of bills from his pocket. He tossed them onto the bar. "Bye, Jimmy," he said to the bartender. "See you again never." He stalked to the door and stiff-armed it open. Emma and Cristina dashed after him. Emma was only too pleased to be back outside. Sterling was already hurrying down the street, his head down. The sun had fully set, and the streetlights were on, filling the air with a yellow sodium glow. Cars rushed by on Pico. Sterling was moving fast. Cristina called out to him, but he didn't turn around, just hunched down inside his suit jacket and moved more quickly. Suddenly he veered to the left, between two buildings, and disappeared. Emma cursed under her breath and broke into a run. Excitement prickled up her veins. She loved running, the way it blanked her mind, the way it made her forget everything but the breath rushing in and out of her lungs. The mouth of an alley loomed up to her left. Not a garbage alley--this one was nearly as wide as a street and ran along the back of a long line of apartment buildings with cheap stucco balconies that faced out over the backstreet. A gray concrete drain ran down the center. Partway down the alley Sterling's gray Jeep was parked. He was leaning against the driver's side door, trying to jerk it open. Emma sprang onto his back, yanking him away from the car. He spun around, stumbled, and hit the ground. "Dammit!" he yelped, pulling himself up onto his knees. "I thought you said you were here to help me!" "In a larger sense, yes," said Emma. "Because it's our job. But nobody calls me 'blondie' and keeps their kneecaps." "Emma," Cristina said warningly. "Get up," Emma said, reaching out a hand to Sterling. "Come with us. But if you call me 'blondie' again, I'll rip your knees off and turn them into tiny hubcaps, 'kay?" "Stop yelling at him, Emma," said Cristina. "Casper--Mr. Sterling--we need to stay with you, all right? We know you're in danger and we want to help you." "If you want to help me, you'll get away from me," Sterling shouted. "I need to be left alonel" "So you can end up drowned and burned, covered in markings, with your fingerprints sanded off?" Emma said. "That's what you want?" Sterling gaped at her. "What?" "Emma!" Emma realized Cristina was looking up. A shape was slipping along the roof--a man in dark clothes, a dangerous, familiar shadow. Emma's heart thumped in her chest. "Get up!" She grabbed Sterling's hand, yanking him to his feet. He struggled, then sagged against her, his mouth open, as the dark shape on the roof leaped down, landing on a jutting balcony. Emma could see him more clearly now: a man in black, a dark hood pulled up to hide his face. There was a crossbow in his right hand. He raised it. Emma gave Sterling a shove that almost knocked him off his feet. "Run!" she shouted. Sterling didn't move. He was gaping at the figure in black, a look of total disbelief on his face. Something whizzed by Emma's ear--a crossbow bolt. Senses heightened, she heard the loud snick as Cristina's butterfly knife snapped open, and the whir as it flew through the air. She heard the man in black yell, and the crossbow fell from his hand. It crashed into the alley, and a moment later the man in black followed, landing with a harsh thud on Sterling's back. Sterling went sprawling. The man in black, crouched over him, raised his hand; something silvery flashed between his fingers. A knife. He brought it down-- And Cristina careened into him, knocking him sideways. He went sprawling, and Sterling staggered to his feet and ran for his car. He half- fell into it, gasping. Emma raced after him, but the car was already gathering speed, hurtling down the alley. She spun back around just as the man in black sprang up. Emma was on him in seconds, flinging him up against the stained wall of the apartment building. He tried to pull away, but Emma had her fist knotted in the front of his sweatshirt. "You shot Julian," she said. "I should kill you right here." "Emma." Cristina was on her feet. Her gaze was fixed on the man in black. "Find out who he is first." Emma grabbed his hood with her free hand and yanked it down, revealing A boy. Not a man, she thought, jolted, definitely a boy--maybe a year older than her--with tangled dark hair. His jaw was set and his black eyes snapped with anger. Cristina gasped. "Dios mio, ino puedo creerque seas tu!" "What?" Emma demanded, looking from the boy to Cristina and back again. "What's going on?" "Emma." Cristina looked stunned, as if she'd had the breath knocked out of her. "This is Diego. Diego Rocio Rosales, meet Emma Carstairs." The air outside the Institute was strong and bracing, smelling of sage and salt. Julian could hear the low hum of cicadas filling the air, softening the noise of Diana slamming the truck door shut. She came around the side of the truck and paused when she saw Julian standing on the front steps. "Jules," she said. "What are you doing out here?" "I could ask you that," he said. "Are you leaving? Again?" She tucked her hair behind her ears, but several curls escaped, caught by the escalating wind. She wore dark clothes, not gear but black jeans and gloves and boots. "I have to go." He took a step down. "How long will you be gone for?" "I don't know." "So we shouldn't depend on you." The heaviness in Julian's chest felt like more than he could bear. He wanted to lash out, kick something. He wanted Emma, to talk to, to reassure him. But he couldn't think about Emma. "Believe it or not," Diana said, "I'm doing my best for you." Julian looked down at his hands. His sea-glass bracelet glowed on his wrist. He remembered the gleam of it under the water the night before, as he swam down toward Emma. "What do you expect me to tell them?" he said. "If they ask me where you are." "Make something up," Diana said. "You're good at that." Anger surged up in him--if he was a liar, and a good one, it was because he had never had a choice. "I know things about you," Julian said. "I know you left for your travel year, went to Thailand, and didn't come back until after your father died." Diana paused, one hand on the truck door. "Have you been investigating me, Julian?" "I know things because I have to know them," Julian said. "I need to be careful." Diana yanked the door open. "I came here," she said, softly, "knowing it was a bad idea. Knowing that caring about you children was tying myself to a fate I couldn't control. I did it because I saw how much you cared about each other, you and your brothers and sisters, and it meant something to me. Try to believe that, Julian." "I know you understand about brothers and sisters," said Julian. "You had a brother. He died in Thailand. You never talk about him." She got into the truck, slammed the door shut after her, the window still open. "I don't owe you answers, Julian," she said. "I'll be back as soon as I can." "It's all right," he said. He suddenly felt enormously tired. "They won't ask where you are, anyway. They don't really expect you to be around." He saw Diana cover her face with her hands. A moment later, the truck started up. Lights illuminated the front of the Institute, sweeping over the sandy grass as the truck rumbled down the hill. Julian stood where he was for a long time. He wasn't sure how long. Long enough for the sun to go down entirely, for the glow to fade from the hills. Long enough for him to turn to go back inside, straightening his shoulders, preparing himself. That was when he heard the noise. He spun around and saw them: a vast crowd, coming up the road toward the Institute. <|title|>Chapter 19: Chilling and Killing <|startofchapter|>"Cristina," Diego breathed, staring past Emina. "Pense que eras tu, pero no estaba seguro. iQue haces aqui? iPor que estabas tratando de protege r a este bomb re?" "Diego?" Not understanding a word of what he'd said, Emma examined the boy again, noting the Marks that decorated his neck, disappearing down into the collar of his shirt. He was a Shadowhunter, all right. "This is Perfect Diego?" "Emma," Cristina said, her cheeks flushing. "Let him go." "I'm not letting him go." Emma glared at Perfect Diego, who glared right back, his black eyes flaring. "He shot Julian." "I didn't know you were Nephilim," Perfect Diego snapped. "You were wearing long sleeves and jackets. I couldn't see your runes." His English was perfect, perhaps unsurprisingly, considering his nickname. "Weren't they in gear?" Cristina demanded. She was still looking at Perfect Diego incredulously. "Just the jackets." Emma shoved Perfect Diego hard against the wall; he winced. "I guess they look like regular jackets from a distance. Not that that's an excuse." "You were wearing jeans. I'd never seen you before. You were going through the dead girl's purse. Why wouldn't I think you were one of the killers?" Emma, not wanting to acknowledge that he had a point, shoved him harder against the wall. "Do you know who I am now?" The corner of his mouth quirked up. "Oh, indeed, Emma Carstairs." "So you know I could rip all your internal organs out at once, thread some string through them, and turn them into Christmas tree decorations without batting an eyelash?" His eyes flashed. "You could try." "Stop it, both of you," said Cristina. "We don't have time for this. We have to find Sterling." "She's right," said Diego. "Now either let go of me or kill me, because we are wasting time. I know where Sterling will be. He has a meeting with a witch from the Shadow Market. We must get there soon--he is fast, as half wolves are." "Is the witch going to kill him?" Emma let go of Diego, who went to gather up his crossbow. Cristina's butterfly knife had stuck point-down into the side of it. Diego snorted and pulled it free. He handed it to her. She took it silently. Diego whirled around and began striding down the alley. "If that is a joke, it's not funny." "It's not a joke," said Cristina. "We have been trying to protect him." "What?" Diego turned the corner into a blind alley, where a chain-link fence closed them off from the street beyond. He climbed it expertly, dropping lightly to the ground on the other side. Emma scrambled up after, and Cristina next. Diego appeared to be fiddling with his weapons belt, but Emma could tell he was watching Cristina out of the corner of his eye, making sure she landed safely. "Why would you protect a murderer?" "He's not a murderer," Cristina said. "He is a victim. And he's very unpleasant, but this is our job." They had turned onto a dead-end street lined with houses. Crabgrass and cactus grew on overgrown lawns. Diego moved with purpose toward the end of the street. "Didn't you understand?" Diego shook his head, his dark hair flying. "Why everyone must stay away from him? I can't believe this. I can't believe-- everything you've done--you saw him get the number? At the Lottery? You saw him chosen?" "Yes," said Emma, a cold feeling beginning to spread through her veins. "Yes, that's how we knew we needed to protect him--" A sudden, blinding flare of light shot like fireworks from the far end of the street. A swirl of green-and-blue fire, edged with red. Cristina's eyes were wide, the flaring sparks touching her hair with scarlet. Diego swore and took off running. After a split second, Emma and Cristina followed. Emma had never met a Shadowhunter she couldn't keep up with, but Diego was fast. Really fast. She was breathing hard by the time they skidded to a stop at the end of the street. The cul-de-sac ended in a row of abandoned houses. Sterling's car had slammed into a dead streetlamp, the hood crumpled, the driver's side door hanging open. One of the air bags had exploded, but Sterling was unharmed. He was in the middle of the road, struggling with someone--the girl with green hair Emma had seen earlier, on the street in front of the bar. She was pulling to get away from him; he had a hand fisted in the back of her coat, and the look on his face was half-maniacal. "Let her go!" Diego shouted. The three of them began to run, Emma reaching for Cortana. Sterling, seeing them, began to drag the girl around to the other side of his car. Emma, hurtling toward the Jeep, leaped onto the hood, scrambled over the roof, and dropped down on the other side. To be met with a sheet of blue-green fire. Sterling was standing behind it, still clasping the green-haired girl. Her eyes met Emma's. She had a slight, elfin face--a recollection of seeing her at the Midnight Theater touched the edge of Emma's memory. Emma leaped forward. The blue-green fire blasted upward, knocking her back several steps. Sterling raised his hand. Something glittered in his grasp --a knife. "Stop him!" Diego shouted. He and Cristina had appeared on the other side of the wall of blue fire. Emma pushed forward--though it was like walking against a typhoon--just as Sterling brought the knife down, plunging it into the girl's chest. Cristina screamed. No, Emma thought, shocked through with horror. No, no, no. It was a Shadowhunter's job to save people, to protect them. Sterling couldn't harm the girl, he couldn't-- For a moment she saw a darkness within the fire--caught a glimpse of the inside of the convergence cave, carved all over with poetry and symbols--and then hands reached from the darkness and snatched the girl from Sterling's grip. Emma glimpsed them only briefly, amid the flame and confusion, but they seemed to be long white hands--oddly crooked, as if they had been stripped to bones-- Choking on blood, limp and dying, the girl was dragged into the darkness. Sterling turned and grinned at Emma. His shirt was marked with bloody handprints, and the blade of his knife was scarlet. "You're too late!'' he shouted. "Too late, Nephilim! She was the thirteenth --the last!'' Diego cursed and threw himself forward, but the wall of fire flared up, and he staggered back, knocked to his knees. Gritting his teeth, he rose again to his feet and advanced. Sterling had stopped grinning. Fear flashed in his sallow eyes. He flung out an arm, and the skeletal hand reached from the fire to clasp his and drag him after the girl. "No!" Emma sprang and rolled under the wave of fire, as if she were ducking under a wave at the beach. She caught at Sterling's leg, digging her hands into his calf. "Let me go!" he yelled. "Let me go, let me go. Guardian, take me, take me away from here --" The skeletal hand pulled at Sterling's. Emma felt herself losing her grip. She looked up, her eyes stinging and burning, just in time to see Cristina fling her butterfly knife. It struck the clawlike hand; the bones cracked and the hand withdrew hastily, releasing Sterling, who fell heavily to the ground. "No!" Sterling rose to his knees, his arms held out, as the fire faded and disappeared. "Please! Take me with you--" The three Shadowhunters descended on him, Diego grabbing hold of Sterling unceremoniously and hauling him to his feet. Sterling laughed painfully. "You couldn't stop me," he said. "You stupid girls, following me around, protecting me--" Diego shoved him, hard, but Emma was shaking her head. "When you were picked in the Lottery," she said to Sterling through a dry throat, asking the question though she already knew the answer, "you weren't being picked to be killed. You were being picked to do the killing?" "Oh, Raziel," Cristina whispered. Her hand was at her throat, clutching her pendant; she looked at a loss. Sterling spat on the ground. "That's right," he said. "You get your number picked, you kill or be killed. Just like you, Wren didn't know how it worked. She agreed to meet me here. Stupid bitch." His eyes were half-wild. "I killed her, and the Guardian took her, and now I'll live forever. As soon as the Guardian finds me again. I'll get riches, immortality, anything I want." "You killed for that?" Cristina demanded. "You made yourself a murderer?" "I was a murderer from the second they picked my name in the Lottery," said Sterling. "I had no choice." The sound of police sirens started up in the distance. "We need to get out of here," said Cristina, glancing toward Sterling's wrecked car, the blood on the street. Emma raised Cortana, and was rewarded with a look of quivering fear on Sterling's face. "No," he whimpered. "Don't--" "We can't kill him," Diego protested. "We need him. I've never caught one of them alive before. We must question him." "Relax, Perfect Diego," Emma said, and slammed the handle of Cortana into Sterling's temple. He dropped like a rock, out cold. Carrying Sterling back to the car was awkward, since he wasn't glamoured; they slung one of his arms over Diego's shoulder, and he did his best to look as if he was helping a drunk friend home. Once they reached the Toyota, they tied Sterling's wrists and ankles with electrum wire before bundling him into the back of the car, his head lolling, his body limp. They'd discussed whether to race straight to the convergence, but decided to head to the Institute first to pick up more weapons and consult with the others. Emma especially was eager to talk to Julian--she'd called several times, but he hadn't picked up. She told herself he was probably busy with the kids, but faint worry rankled at the back of her mind as she slid into the driver's seat, Cristina beside her. Perfect Diego clambered in beside Sterling, his dagger out, pressed to Sterling's throat. Emma took off with a vicious screech of tires. She was filled with rage, at least half of it directed at herself. How could she not have figured out that Sterling wasn't a victim, but a killer? How could they all not have known? "It's not your fault,'' Perfect Diego said from the back of the car, as if he'd read her mind. "It made sense to assume that the Lottery was choosing victims, not killers.'' "And Johnny Rook lied to us," Emma snarled. "Or at least--he let us believe it. That we were protecting someone." "We were protecting a killer," said Cristina. She looked miserable, her hand clamped around her pendant. "Don't blame yourself," said Perfect Diego, being perfect. "You've been investigating with no information. No help from the Silent Brothers or-- anyone else." Cristina looked over her shoulder at him and glared. "How do you know all this?" "What makes you think we've been investigating?" Emma demanded. "Just because you saw me and Julian at Wells's place?" "That was my first clue," Perfect Diego said. "After that I asked around. Talked to a guy at the Shadow Market--" "Johnny Rook again," Emma said in disgust. "Is there anyone that guy won't blab to?" "He told me everything," Perfect Diego said. "That you were looking into the murders without the Clave knowing. That it was a secret. I was scared for you, Cristina." Cristina snorted without turning around. "Tina," Perfect Diego said, and his voice was filled with longing. "Tina, please." Emma looked awkwardly out the windshield. They were almost in view of the ocean. She tried to concentrate on that and not the tension between the two other conscious occupants of the car. Cristina clenched her medallion tighter, but said nothing. "Rook said you were investigating because you believed the murders were tied to your parents' death," Perfect Diego said to Emma. "For what it is worth, I am sorry for your loss." "That was a long time ago." Emma could see Perfect Diego in the rearview mirror. He had a delicate chain of runes that circled his neck, like a torque. His hair curled, not Julian's waves but ringlets that fell over the tops of his ears. He was hot. And he seemed nice. And he had some serious badass moves. He really was Perfect Diego, she thought wryly. No wonder Cristina had been so hurt. "What are you doing here?" Cristina demanded. "Emma has a reason to be investigating the murders, but you?" "You know I was at the Scholomance," Perfect Diego said. "And you know Centurions are often sent to investigate matters that don't fall strictly under Shadowhunter mandate--" There was a hoarse yell. Sterling had jerked awake and was flailing in the backseat. Perfect Diego's knife flashed in the darkness. Cars honked as Emma jerked the wheel to the right and they careened onto Ocean Avenue. "Let me go!" Sterling jerked and flailed against the wire wrapping his wrists. "Let me go!" He yelped in pain as Perfect Diego flung him hard against the backseat of the car, pressing the knife against his jugular. "Get off me," Sterling yelled. "Goddammit, get off me--" Sterling shrieked as Perfect Diego dug his knee into his thigh. "Settle," Diego said in a flat, deadly voice, "down." They were still hurtling down Ocean. Palm trees fringed either side of the street like eyelashes. Emma cut wildly in front of the left-hand turn lane and shot down the ramp to the coast highway amid a furious chorus of blaring horns. "Jesus Christ!" Sterling shouted. "Where'd you learn to drive?" "Nobody asked you for commentary!" Emma yelled back as they hurtled into the moving traffic. Luckily it was late and the lanes were mostly empty. "I don't want to die on the Pacific Coast Highway!" Sterling wailed. "Oh, I'm sorry." Emma's voice dripped acid. "Is there a different highway you'd like to die on? BECAUSE WE CAN ARRANGE THAT." "Bitch," Sterling hissed. Cristina whirled around in her seat. There was a cracking sound like a gunshot; a second later, as they hurtled past a group of surfers walking along the highway's edge, Emma realized she'd slapped Sterling across the face. "Don't you call my friend a bitch," Cristina said. "You understand?" Sterling rubbed his jaw. His eyes were slits. "You've got no right to touch me." There was a whine in his voice. "Nephilim only deal with issues that break the Accords." "Wrong," Perfect Diego said. "We deal with any issues we feel like." "But Belinda told us--" "Yeah, about that," Cristina said. "How did you end up joining that cult or whatever it is at the Midnight Theater?" Sterling exhaled a shaky breath. "We're sworn to secrecy," he said finally. "If I tell you everything I know, are you going to protect me?" "Maybe," said Emma. "But you're tied up and we're all heavily armed. You really fancy your chances if you don't tell?" Sterling glanced at Perfect Diego, who was holding the dagger idly, as if it were a pen. Nevertheless, there was a sense of coiled power about him, as if he could explode into action in under a second. If Sterling had any brains he'd be terrified. "I got into it through a producer friend of mine. He said he'd found a way to guarantee that everything you touched turned to gold. Not literally," Sterling hastened to add. "No one thought you meant literally, idiot," said Emma. Sterling made an angry noise, cut off quickly by Diego pressing the knife tighter against his throat. "Who's the Guardian?" Cristina demanded. "Who leads the Followers at the theater?" "I've got no idea," Sterling said sulkily. "Nobody knows. Not even Belinda." "I saw Belinda at the Shadow Market, shilling for your little cult," Emma said. "I'm guessing they promised money and luck if you came to their meetings. You just had to risk the lotteries. Am I right?" "They didn't seem like that big a risk," said Sterling. "They were only once in a while. If you got picked, no one could touch you. No one could interfere until you took a life." Cristina's face twisted in disgust. "And those who took lives? What happened to them?" "They got whatever they wanted," Sterling said. "To be rich. Beautiful. After a sacrifice, everyone gets stronger, but the one who performs the sacrifice gets stronger than the rest." "How do you know?" said Cristina. "Had any of the people at the theater been picked in the Lottery before?" "Belinda," said Sterling promptly. "She was the first. Most of the others didn't stick around. They're probably off somewhere, living it up. Well, except Ava." "Ava Leigh was a Lottery winner?" asked Emma. "The one who lived with Stanley Wells?" Perfect Diego jammed his knife harder against Sterling's throat. "What did you know about Ava?" Sterling winced away from the knife. "Yeah, she was a Lottery winner. Look, it didn't matter who winners picked to kill--no Downworlders except faeries, that was the only rule. Some of the Lottery winners chose people they knew. Ava decided to kill her sugar-daddy boyfriend. She was tired of him. But it freaked her out. She killed herself after. Drowned herself in his pool. It was stupid of her. She could have had anything she wanted." "She didn't commit suicide," Emma said. "She was murdered." He shrugged. "Nah, she offed herself. That's what everyone said." Cristina looked as if she was struggling to stay calm. "You knew her," she said. "Don't you care? Do you feel anything? What about guilt over the girl you killed?" "Some girl from the Shadow Market," said Sterling with a shrug. "Used to sell jewelry there. I told her I could get her designs into department stores. Make her rich, if she'd just meet me." He snorted. "Everyone's greedy." They had passed the initial highway clutter and reached a stretch of beach, dotted with blue lifeguard towers. "That blue fire," Emma said, thinking out loud. "The Guardian was in it. They took the body to the convergence. You stabbed her, but the Guardian grabbed her before she died. So the deaths happen at the convergence, and everything else too--the burning, submerging the body in seawater, carving the runes, the whole ritual?" "Yeah. And I was supposed to be taken to the convergence too," Sterling said, resentment coloring his voice. "It's where the Guardian would have thanked me--given me anything I wanted. I could have seen the ritual. One death strengthens us all." Emma and Cristina exchanged looks. Sterling wasn't clearing things up; he was making them more confusing. "You said she was the last," said Diego. "What happens after this? What's the payoff?" Sterling grunted. "No idea. I didn't get where I am in life by asking questions I don't need the answers to." "Get where you are in life?" Emma snorted. "You mean tied up in the back of a car?" Emma could see the lights of the Malibu Pier up ahead. They shone against the dark water. "None of that matters. The Guardian will find me," Sterling said. "I wouldn't count on it," said Perfect Diego in his low voice. Emma turned off the highway onto their familiar road. She could see the lights of the Institute in the distance, illuminating the rutted track under her wheels. "And when he does find you?" she said. "The Guardian? What do you think he'll do, just welcome you back after you told us all this? You don't think he'll make you pay?" "There's one more thing I have to give him," Sterling said. "Belinda did. And even Ava did. One last, last thing. And then--" Sterling broke off with a yowl of terror. The Institute loomed up in front of them. Perfect Diego swore. "Emma!" Cristina gasped. "Emma, stop!" Emma saw the familiar shape of the Institute, the drive ahead of them, the canyon and hills rising behind. There were shadows everywhere, a ring of them around the Institute, but only when the car crested the last rise and the headlights swept the building did Emma feel the shock of what she was seeing. The Institute was surrounded. Figures--dark, human-shaped--contained the Institute in a loose square. They stood shoulder to shoulder, absolutely silent and unmoving, like old drawings Emma had seen of Greek warriors. Sterling yelled something incomprehensible. Emma slammed on the brakes as the headlights skittered across the trampled brush in front of the building. The figures were illuminated, lit up like daylight. Some were familiar. She recognized the curly-haired boy from the band at the Midnight Theater, his face set in a stony snarl. Beside him was a woman--dark hair, red lips--who raised a hand with a gun in it-- "Belinda!" Sterling sounded stupidly terrified. "She--" Belinda's hand rocked back with the ricochet of the gun. An explosion of noise seared Emma's ears as the right front tire of the car exploded, torn in two by a bullet. The car slewed violently to the side and skidded into a ditch. Darkness and the sound of shattering glass. The steering wheel slammed into Emma's chest, knocking the breath out of her; the headlights went out. She heard Cristina scream, and scrambling noises from the backseat. She wrenched at her seat belt, ripping it free, turning to reach for Cristina. She was gone. The backseat was also empty. Emma bashed the door open and half-fell out onto the packed dirt. She struggled to her feet and whirled around. The car was mashed nose down into a ditch, smoke rising from the burst tire. Diego was coming around from the passenger-side door, boots crunching on the dry earth. He was carrying Cristina, his left arm slung under her knees; one of her legs hung at an odd angle. She had a hand on his shoulder, her fingers bunched in the sleeve of his sweatshirt. He looked very heroic in the moonlight. A bit like Superman. Perfect Diego. Emma kind of wanted to throw something at him but she was afraid of hitting Cristina. He jerked his manly chin toward the Institute. "Emma!" Emma whirled. The figures surrounding the Institute had turned--they were facing toward her now, toward her and Diego and the wreckage of the car. In the moonlight they looked eerie. Stark figures in black and gray, a blur of faces. Weres, half faeries, vampire darklings, and ifrits: the Followers. "Emma!" Perfect Diego called again. He had his stele out and was inking a healing rune on Cristina's arm. "Sterling's on the move--he has your sword --" Emma whirled as Sterling shot past her, moving with inhuman speed. He'd freed his wrists and ankles, but blood stained the hems of his trousers. "Belinda!" he shouted. "I'm here! Help me!" He held something up as he ran, something that glowed gold in the darkness. Cortana. Rage exploded inside Emma's chest. It shot through her veins like lit gunpowder and then she was running, slamming across the grass and dirt after Sterling. She leaped over rocks, shot past blurred figures. Sterling was fast, but she was just that much faster. She caught up to him nearly at the Institute steps. He had almost reached Belinda. She crashed into him, grabbed his jacket, and swung him around. His face was dirty, blood-streaked, pale with terror. She seized the wrist that held Cortana. Her sword. Her father's sword. Her only connection to a family that seemed to have dissolved away into the past like powder in rain. She heard a crack. Sterling shrieked and fell to his knees, Cortana dropping to the ground. She reached down to seize it up; by the time she straightened she was surrounded by a small group of Followers, led by Belinda. "What have you told her, Sterling?" Belinda demanded, showing small white teeth behind her red lips. "N-nothing." Sterling was clutching his wrist. It looked badly broken. "I took the sword to give to you--proof of good faith--" "What would I want with a sword? Idiot." She turned to Emma. "We're here for him," she said, pointing at Sterling. "Let us take him and we'll go." She grinned at Emma. "If you're wondering how we knew to come here, the Guardian has eyes everywhere." "Emma!" It was Cristina's voice; Emma whirled and saw Cristina on the outside of the circle, Perfect Diego beside her. To Emma's relief, Cristina was only limping a little bit. "Let them in," Belinda said, and the crowd parted so that Perfect Diego and Cristina took their places on either side of Emma. The circle closed back up around them. "What's going on?" Perfect Diego demanded. His gaze lit on Belinda. "Are you the Guardian?" She burst out laughing. After a moment several of the other Followers, including the curly-haired boy, started to laugh alongside her. "Me? What a hoot you are, handsome." She winked at Perfect Diego as if acknowledging his perfectness. "I'm not the Guardian, but I know what the Guardian wants. I know what's necessary. Right now the Guardian needs Sterling. The Followers need him." Sterling whimpered, his cry lost among the laughter of the crowd. Emma was looking around, gauging the distance to the front doors of the Institute: if they could get inside, the Followers couldn't come after them. But then they'd be trapped--and they couldn't call the Conclave for help. Sterling curled a hand around Perfect Diego's ankle. Apparently he had decided Perfect Diego was his best bet for mercy in the circumstances. "Don't let them take me," he begged. "They'll kill me. I screwed up. They'll kill me." "We can't let you have him," said Perfect Diego. Emma was mostly sure she was imagining the regret in his voice. "Our mandate is to protect mundanes unless they are posing a danger to our lives." "I don't know," Emma said, thinking of the green-haired girl bleeding out her life. "This one seems killable." Belinda gave them a red-lipped smile. "He's not a mundane. None of us are." "Our mandate is to protect, either way," Perfect Diego said. Emma exchanged a glance with Cristina, but could tell Cristina agreed with Perfect Diego. Mercy was a quality the Angel expected Shadowhunters to have. Mercy was the Law. Sometimes Emma worried her capacity for mercy had been burned away in the Dark War. "We need him for information," Cristina said quietly, but Belinda heard it, and her lips tightened. "We need him more," she said. "Now hand him over and we'll go. There's three of you and three hundred of us. Think about it." Emma threw Cortana. It whipped out of her hand so quickly that Belinda had no chance to react; it spun around the circle of Followers like a needle around a compass, flickering and golden. She heard shouts, cries, half-pain and half-astonishment, and then the sword was back in her hand, thunking solidly into her palm. Belinda looked around in genuine astonishment. The tip of Cortana had just grazed the shirtfronts of the circle of Followers; some were bleeding. some just had rips in their clothes. All were clutching at themselves, looking stunned and frightened. Cristina seemed delighted. Perfect Diego just seemed thoughtful. "Outnumbered isn't necessarily overmatched," said Emma. "Kill her," Belinda said, raised her gun, and pulled the trigger. Emma barely had time to brace herself before something flew across her field of vision--something bright and silver--and she heard a loud crack. A dagger dropped to the ground at her feet, a bullet lodged in the handle. Perfect Diego was looking at her, his hand still open. He'd thrown the dagger, averted the bullet. Maybe not saved her life--gear repelled bullets-- but definitely prevented her from being knocked to the ground, maybe killed with a second shot to the head. She didn't have time to mouth a thanks. The other Followers lunged toward her, and this time the cold of battle shot through her veins. The world slowed down around her. The half-fey boy with the curly hair launched himself into the air, hurtling toward her. Emma speared him before he could hit the ground, her blade shearing through his chest. Blood sprayed around her as she jerked the sword back, a slow, hot rain of red droplets. The curly-haired boy crumpled to the ground. There was blood on Cortana's blade as Emma swung it again, and again, and the sword became a golden blur around her. She could hear screams. Sterling was cowering on the ground, his arms over his head. She cut at legs and arms; she chopped guns out of hands. Diego and Cristina were doing the same, slicing out with their weapons. Cristina flung her butterfly knife; it slammed into Belinda's shoulder, knocking her backward. She swore and pulled the knife free, tossing it aside. Though there was a hole torn in her white sweater, there was no blood. Emma backed up until she was standing in front of Sterling. "Get to the Institute!" she shouted at Cristina. "Get the others!" Cristina nodded and darted toward the steps. She was halfway there when a gray-skinned, red-eyed darkling lunged toward her, sinking its teeth into her already injured leg. Cristina screamed. Emma and Diego both turned as Cristina stabbed down with a dagger and the darkling fell away, choking on blood. There was a rip in the leg of Cristina's gear. Diego tore across the grass toward her. The moment had cost Emma her concentration; she saw a flicker of movement out of the corner of her eye and found Belinda hurtling toward her, her left hand outstretched. It fastened around Emma's throat. She choked, grasping at Belinda's other arm. She yanked hard, and as Belinda staggered away from her, her glove slipped off. Her right arm ended in a bare stump. Belinda's face contorted, and Emma heard Cristina exclaim. She had her dagger out, though the leg of her gear was soaked with blood. Diego stood beside her, a massive shadow against the shape of the Institute. "Your hand's missing," Emma gasped, raising Cortana between her and Belinda. "Just like Ava's--" The Institute doors slammed open. Light so bright it was blinding blazed up and Emma froze, bloody sword in hand. She looked up to see Julian in the doorway. He stood with a seraph blade raised over his head and it burned with light like a star. It bleached the sky, the moon. The Followers actually fell back from it, as if it were the light of a crashing aircraft. In that still moment, Emma looked directly at Jules and saw him look back at her. A fierce pride rose inside her. This was her Julian. A gentle boy with a gentle soul, but every soul contains its own opposite, and the opposite of gentleness was ruthlessness--the beautiful wreckage of mercy. She could see it on his face. To save her he would kill everyone else in the vicinity. He wouldn't think twice until it was over, when he'd wash the blood down the drain of the sink like scarlet paint. And he would not regret it. "Stop," Julian said, and though he didn't shout, didn't yell, the Followers who were still moving froze in place, as if they could read his expression just like Emma could. As if they were afraid. Emma grabbed Sterling by the back of his shirt, yanking him to his feet. "Come on," she said, and began pushing through the crowd, dragging him toward the Institute. If she could just get him inside-- But Belinda was suddenly pushing herself forward, shoving among the other Followers to get close to the Institute steps. There was still no blood around the rip in her sweater. Her glove was back on her hand. Her dark hair was coming out of its elaborately crafted Victory rolls, and she looked furious. She bounded forward, placing herself between Emma and the stairs. Cristina and Diego were just behind them; Cristina was wincing, her face pale. "Julian Blackthorn!" Belinda shouted. "I demand that you let us take this man"--she pointed at Sterling--"away from here! And that you cease interfering in our business! The Followers of the Guardian have nothing to do with you or your Laws!" Julian descended a single step. The glow of his seraph blade lit his eyes to an eerie undersea green. "How dare you come here," he said flatly. "How dare you invade the space of the Nephilim; how dare you make demands. Your idiot cult wasn't our business, no, until you started murdering. Now it's our business to make you stop. And we will." Belinda gave a harsh laugh. "There are three hundred of us--there are barely any of you--and you're children --" "Not all of us are children," said another voice, and Malcolm Fade stepped out onto the stairs beside Julian. The Followers gaped. Clearly, most of them had no idea who he was. But the fact that he was surrounded by a halo of crackling violet fire was obviously making quite a few of them nervous. "I'm Malcolm Fade," he said. "High Warlock of Los Angeles. You do know what warlocks are, don't you?" Emma couldn't suppress a wild giggle. Perfect Diego was staring. Sterling was pallid with terror. "One of us," said Malcolm, "is worth five hundred of you. I can burn you to the ground in six seconds flat and use the ashes to stuff a teddy bear for my girlfriend. Not that I have a girlfriend at the moment," he added, "but one lives in hope." "You're a warlock, and you serve Nephilim?" Belinda demanded. "After all they've done to Downworlders?" "Don't try to use your feeble knowledge of a thousand years of politics on me, child. It won't work." Malcolm looked at his watch. "I'm giving you one minute," he said. "Anyone who's still here after that gets set on fire." Nobody moved. With a sigh, Malcolm pointed at a shrub of California sage clustered by the bottom of the stairs. It burst into flames. A choking, sage-smelling smoke rose up. Flames danced along his fingers. The Followers turned and ran for the road. Emma stood as they hurtled around her, as if she were planted in the middle of an avalanche. In a moment all of them were gone but Belinda. There was a terrible rage on her face, and an even more terrible despair. It was a look that froze them all in place. She raised her dark eyes to Julian. "You," she said. "You may think you've defeated us now, with your pet warlock, but the things we know about you-- oh, the things we could tell the Clave. The truth about your uncle. The truth about who runs this Institute. The truth--" Julian had gone white, but before he could speak or move, an agonized shriek tore the air. It was Sterling. He clutched at his chest, and as all of them, even Belinda, turned to stare, he crumpled to the grass. A gout of blood spilled from his mouth, staining the ground. His eyes bugged out with fear as his knees gave way; he clawed at the ground, his pink scarab ring sparking on his finger, and was still. "He's dead," said Cristina in disbelief. She turned on Belinda. "What did you do?" Briefly Belinda looked blank, as if she were just as shocked as the others. Then she said, "Wouldn't you like to know," and sashayed up to the body. She bent as if to examine it. A moment later a knife flashed in the fingers of her left hand. There were two grotesque thick chopping noises and Sterling's hands came away from his wrists. Belinda caught them up, grinning. "Thanks," she said. "The Guardian will be pleased to know he's dead." Emma flashed back to Ava in the pool, the ragged skin around her severed hand. Did the Guardian always insist on this specific grisly proof that those he wanted dead were dead? But what about Belinda? She was still alive. Was it meant to be a tribute? Belinda grinned, cutting into Emma's thoughts. "Later, little Shadowhunters," she said. And she stalked off toward the road, her bloody trophies held high. Emma took a step forward, meaning to climb the Institute steps, but Malcolm held up a hand to stop her. "Emma, stay where you are," he said. "Cristina, step back from the body." Cristina did as he asked, her hand at her throat, touching her medallion. Sterling's body lay crumpled at her feet, curled in on itself. Blood no longer pumped from his severed wrists, but the ground around him was wet with it. As Cristina stepped back with alacrity, she bumped into Perfect Diego. He raised his hands as if to steady her, and to Emma's surprise, she allowed it. She was wincing, clearly in pain. Blood had spattered onto her shoe. Malcolm lowered his hand, curling his fingers under. Sterling's body burst into flame. Mage-fire, burning hard and quick and clean. The body seemed to glow intensely for a moment before sifting away to ash. The fire vanished and there was only a charred and bloodstained patch on the ground to show where it had been. Emma realized she was still holding Cortana. She knelt, mechanically wiped off the blade on the dry grass, and sheathed it. As she rose to her feet, her gaze sought out Julian. He was leaning against one of the pillars by the front doors, the seraph blade, now dark, dangling in his hand. He met her gaze for only a moment; his was bleak. The front door of the Institute opened and Mark came out. "Is it over?" Mark asked. "It's over," Julian said wearily. "For now, anyway." Mark's gaze scanned over the others--Emma, then Cristina--and lit on Diego. Diego looked puzzled at the intensity of his gaze. "Who's that?" "That's Diego," said Emma. "Diego Rocio Rosales." "Perfect Diego?" said Mark, sounding incredulous. Diego looked even more puzzled. Before he could say anything, Cristina dropped to the ground, clutching at her leg. "I need," she said, a little breathlessly, "another iratze --" Diego lifted her up into his arms and ran up the stairs, ignoring her protests that she could walk. "I must get her inside," he said, pushing past Julian and then Mark. "You have an infirmary?" "Of course," Julian said. "Second floor--" "Cristina!" Emma called, running up the stairs after them, but they had already disappeared inside. "She'll be fine," Malcolm said. "Better not to chase after them and frighten the kids." "How are the kids?" Emma asked anxiously. "Ty, Dru--" "They're all fine," Mark said. "I was looking after them." "And Arthur?" "Didn't even seem to notice anything was happening," said Mark with a quizzical look. "It was odd--" Emma turned to Julian. "It is odd," she said. "Julian, what did Belinda mean? When she said she knew who really ran the Institute?" Julian shook his head. "I don't know." Malcolm exhaled an exasperated breath. "Jules," he said. "Tell her." Julian looked exhausted--more than exhausted. Emma had read somewhere that people drowned when they became too tired to keep themselves afloat any longer. They gave up and let the sea take them. Julian looked that tired now. "Malcolm, don't," he whispered. "Can you even remember all the lies you've told?" Malcolm asked, and there was none of his usual insouciance in his look. His eyes were hard as amethyst. "You didn't tell me about your brother's return--" "Oh--Mark!" Emma exclaimed, realizing suddenly that of course Malcolm hadn't known before tonight that he was in the Institute. Quickly, she put her hand over her mouth. Mark raised an eyebrow at her. He seemed remarkably calm. "You concealed it," Malcolm went on, "knowing that I would realize it meant faerie involvement in these murders, and that I would know I might be breaking the Cold Peace by helping you." "You couldn't break it if you didn't know," Julian said. "I was protecting you, too." "Maybe," said Malcolm. "But I've had enough. Tell them the truth. Or that will be the end of my help." Julian nodded. "I'll tell Emma and Mark," he said. "It's not fair on the others." "Your uncle would probably be able to tell you who said this," Malcolm said. '"Do nothing secretly; for Time sees and hears all things, and discloses all.'" "I can tell you who said it." Julian's eyes burned with a low fire. "Sophocles." "Clever boy," said Malcolm. There was affection in his voice, but weariness, too. He turned and marched down the steps. He paused when he reached the bottom, staring off past Emma, his eyes too dark for her to read. He seemed to be seeing something in the distance she couldn't, either something too far in the future to imagine or too far in the past to remember. "You'll help us, still?" Julian called after him. "Malcolm, you won't. . ." He trailed off; Malcolm had vanished into the shadows of the night. "Abandon us?" he said, speaking as if he knew no one was listening. Julian was still leaning against the pillar as if it was the only thing holding him up, and Emma couldn't keep her mind from flashing to the pillars in the Hall of Accords, to Julian when he was twelve, crumpled against one and sobbing into his hands. He'd cried since then, but not often. There wasn't much, she supposed, that measured up to having killed your father. The seraph blade in his hand had burned out. He flung it aside just as Emma came close to him. She slid her hand into his now-empty one. There was no passion in the gesture, nothing that recalled that night on the beach. Only the absolute solidity of the friendship they had shared for more than a decade. He looked over at her then, and she saw the gratitude in his eyes. For a moment there was nothing in the world but the two of them, breathing, his fingertip dancing across her bare wrist. T-H-A-N-K Y-O-U. "Malcolm said there was something you needed to tell us," said Mark. "You seemed to agree. What is it? If we keep the kids waiting much longer, they'll riot." Julian nodded, straightening up, drawing away from the pillar. He was the calm older brother again, the good soldier, the boy with a plan. "I'll go tell them what's going on. You two, wait for me in the dining room," he said. "Malcolm was right. We need to talk." Los Angeles, 2008 Julian would always remember the day his uncle Arthur first arrived at the Los Angeles Institute. It was only the third time he'd ever been there, even though his brother, Andrew, Julian's father, had headed up the biggest Institute on the West Coast for almost fifteen years. Relations had been strained between Andrew and the rest of the Blackthorns ever since a faerie woman had arrived on his doorstep carrying two tiny sleeping children, declared them to be Andrew's son and daughter with the Lady Nerissa of the Seelie Court, and deposited them there to be taken into his care. Even the fact that his wife had adopted them quickly, adored them, and treated them just as she treated her other children with Andrew hadn't entirely repaired the breach. Julian always thought there was more to it than his father was admitting. Arthur seemed to think so too, but neither of them spoke of what they knew, and now that Andrew was dead, Julian suspected the story had died with him. Julian stood at the top of the Institute steps, watching his uncle get out of the car Diana had picked him up in from the airport. Arthur could have Portaled, but he'd chosen to travel like a mundane. He looked crumpled and travel worn as he headed up the steps, Diana behind him. Julian could see that her mouth was set in a hard line, and wondered if Arthur had done something to annoy her. He hoped not; Diana had been at the Los Angeles Institute for only a month and already Julian liked her enormously. It would be better for everyone if she and Arthur got along. Arthur entered the Institute foyer, blinking as his sun-dazzled eyes adjusted to the dimness inside. The other Blackthorns were there, dressed in their best clothes--Dru was wearing velvet, and Tiberius had a tie knotted around his throat. Livvy held Tavvy in her arms, beaming hopefully. Emma stood warily at the foot of the steps, clearly very aware of her status as part of the family, but still not one of them. She'd had her braids pinned up, loops of pale hair swinging like coiled rope on either side of her head. Julian still remembered that. Diana made the introductions. Julian shook hands with his uncle, who, up close, still didn't look much like Julian's father. Maybe that was a good thing. Julian's last memory of his father was not a pleasant one. Julian stared at his uncle as Arthur clasped his hand in a firm grip. Arthur had the Blackthorn brown hair, though it was almost entirely gray, and blue- green eyes behind glasses. His features were broad and rough and he still limped slightly from the Injury he'd Incurred during the Dark War. Arthur turned to greet the rest of the children and Julian felt something jolt through his veins. He saw Dru's hopeful face turned up, Ty's shy sideways glance, and thought: Love them. Love them. For the Angel's sake, love them. It didn't matter if anyone loved him. He was twelve. He was old enough. He had Marks, he was a Shadowhunter. He had Emma. But the others still needed someone to kiss them good night, ward off the nightmares, bandage scraped knees, and soothe hurt feelings. Someone to teach them how to grow up. Arthur moved to Drusilla and shook her hand awkwardly. The smile faded off her face as he went to Livvy next, ignoring Tavvy, and then bent to Tiberius, his hand outstretched. Ty didn't reach back. "Look at me, Tiberius," Arthur said, his voice slightly hoarse. He cleared his throat. "Tiberius!" He straightened up and turned to Julian. "Why won't he look at me?" "He doesn't always like to make eye contact," Julian said. "Why?" Arthur asked. "What's wrong with him?" Julian saw Livvy slip her free hand into Ty's. It was the only thing that stopped him from knocking his uncle down to get to his younger brother himself "Nothing. It's just how he is. " "Odd," Arthur said, and turned away from Ty, dismissing him forever. He looked at Diana. "Where's my office?" Diana's lips thinned further. Julian felt as if he were choking. "Diana doesn't live here or work for us," he said. "She's a tutor; she works for the Clave. I can help you find your office." "Good. " Uncle Arthur picked up his suitcase. "I have a lot of work to do. " Julian went up the stairs feeling as if his head were full of tiny explosions, drowning out Uncle Arthur's lecture about the important monograph on the Iliad that he was working on. Apparently the Dark War had interrupted his work, some of which had been destroyed in the attack on the London Institute. "Very inconvenient, war, " said Arthur, stepping into the office that had been Julian's father's. The walls were light wood; dozens of windows looked out onto the sea and the sky. Particularly for the people who died in it, Julian thought, but his uncle was shaking his head, his knuckles whitening around the handle of his briefcase. "Oh no, no," Arthur said. "This won't do at all." When he turned away from the windows, Julian saw that he was white and sweating. "Too much glass, " he said, his voice lowering to a mumble. "Light--too bright. Too much." He coughed. "Is there an attic?" Julian hadn't been in the attic of the Institute for years, but he remembered where it was, up a narrow flight of stairs from the fourth floor. He trudged up there with his unde, coughing on dust. The room itself had floorboards blackened with mold, stacks of old trunks, and a massive desk with a broken teg propped in one corner. Uncle Arthur set his case down. "Perfect, " he said. Julian didn't see him again until the next night, when hunger must have driven him downstairs. Arthur sat at the dinner table in silence, eating furtively. Emma tried to talk to him that night, and then the next. Eventually even she gave up. "I don't like him," Drusilla said one day, frowning as he retreated down the hall. "Can't the Clave send us another uncle?" Julian put his arms around her. "I'm afraid not. He's what we've got." Arthur became more withdrawn. Sometimes he would speak in snatches of poetry or a few words of Latin; once he asked Julian to pass the salt in Ancient Greek. One night Diana stayed for dinner; after Arthur retired for the night, she took Julian aside. "Maybe it would be better if he didn't eat with the family," she said quietly. "You could bring him up a tray at night. " Julian nodded. The anger and fear that had been like explosions going off in his head had quieted to the dull throb of disappointment. Uncle Arthur was not going to love his brothers and sisters. He was not going to tuck them into bed and kiss their scraped knees. He was not going to be any help at all. Julian determined that he would love them twice as fiercely as any adult could. He would do everything for them, he thought, as he went up to the attic one night after his uncle had lived in the Institute for some months. He would make sure they had everything they wanted. He would make sure they never missed what they didn't have; he would love them enough to make up for everything they'd lost. He shouldered open the door to the attic. For a moment, blinking in disorientation, he thought that the room was empty. That his uncle had gone, or was downstairs, sleeping, as he sometimes did at odd hours. "Andrew?" The voice came from the floor. There was Uncle Arthur, hunched over, his back against the massive desk. It looked as if he were sitting in a pool of darkness. It took Julian a moment to realize that it was blood--black in the dim light, sticky pools of it everywhere, drying on the floor, gumming together loose pages of paper. Arthur's shirtsleeves were rolled up, his shirt itself liberally splattered with blood. He held a dull knife in his right hand. "Andrew, " he said in a slurred voice, rolling his head toward Julian. "Forgive me. I had to do it. I had -- too many thoughts. Dreams. Their voices are carried to me on blood, you see. When I spill the blood, I stop hearing them. " Somehow Julian found his voice. "Whose voices?" "The angels in Heaven above," said Arthur. "And the demons down under the sea. " He pressed the pad of a finger to the tip of the knife and watched the blood bead there. But Julian barely heard him. He was staring down the barrel of the years and the Clave and the Law. "Lunacy" was what they called it when a Shadowhunter heard voices speak to them that no one else could hear, when they saw things that no one else could see. There were other words, uglier ones, but there was no understanding, no sympathy, and no tolerance. Lunacy was a taint, a sign that your brain had rejected the perfection of the Angel's blood. Those who were considered lunatics were closed up in the Basilias and never allowed out again. They certainly were not allowed to run Institutes. It seemed that the matter of not being loved enough was not the ugliest possibility the Blackthorn children had to face after all. <|title|>Chapter 20: Long Ago <|startofchapter|>The formal dining room at the Institute was rarely used--the family ate in the kitchen except for the rare instances when Uncle Arthur was with them. The room was hung with framed portraits of Blackthorns, brought from England, their names etched under their images. Rupert. John. Tristan. Adelaide. Jesse. Tatiana. They gazed down blankly on a long oak table surrounded by high-backed chairs. Mark settled himself on the table, glancing around the walls. "I like them," he said. "The portraits. I always have." "They seem friendly to you?" Emma was leaning against the doorway. The door was cracked partly open, and through it she could see the foyer and Julian talking to his brothers and sisters. Livvy was gripping her saber and looked furious. Ty, beside her, was blank-faced, but his hands were busy at work, tangling and untangling. "Tavvy's awake playing upstairs," Drusilla was saying. She was in pajamas, her brown hair mussed. "Hopefully he'll pass out. Usually he can sleep through a war. I mean--" "That wasn't a war," Julian said. "Though there were some bad moments before Malcolm showed up." "Julian called Malcolm, huh?" Emma said, turning back into the dining room. "Even though you were here, and Malcolm didn't know you're back?" "He had to," Mark said, and Emma was struck by how human he sounded. He looked human too, in his jeans and sweater, perched casually on the table. "There were three hundred Followers surrounding the place, and we couldn't call the Conclave." "He could have asked you to hide," said Emma. There was blood and dirt on her jacket. She flung it over the back of a nearby chair. "He did," Mark said. "I refused." "What? Why did you do that?" Mark said nothing, only looked at her. "Your hand," he said. "It's bleeding." Emma glanced down. He was right; there was a cut across her knuckles. "It's nothing." He reached out to take her hand in his, gazing critically at the blood. "I could draw you an iratze," he said. "Just because I don't want them on my skin doesn't mean I won't draw them on anyone else." Emma retracted her hand. "Don't worry about it," she said, returning to peeking into the entryway. "What about next time?" Ty was asking. "We're going to have to call the Conclave. We can't do this on our own or expect Malcolm always to be there." "The Conclave can't know," Julian said. "Jules," Livvy said. "I mean, we all get it, but isn't there some way-- I mean, the Conclave would have to understand about Mark--he's our brother --" "I'll handle it," Julian said. "What if they come back?" Dru said in a small voice. "Do you trust me?" Julian asked gently. She nodded. "Then don't worry about it. They won't be back." Emma sighed to herself as Julian sent his siblings upstairs. He stood, watching them go, and then turned toward the dining room. Emma drew away from the door and sat down in one of the high-backed chairs just as Julian came into the room. The witchlight chandelier above glared down brightly: an unforgivingly harsh interrogation white. Julian shut the door behind him and leaned against it. His blue-green eyes blazed in his colorless face. When he reached up to push his hair off his forehead, Emma saw that his fingers were bleeding where he had bitten his nails down to the quick. The quick. She'd learned the term from Diana, watching Julian bite his hands bloody while Ty and Livvy practiced in the training room. "Biting his nails down to the quick won't help him learn to hold a sword," Diana had said, and Emma had gone and looked the term up. The quick: the soft, tender flesh underneath the fingernail. Also means "living, " as in "the quick and the dead. " She couldn't help thinking of it as life after that, as if Julian were trying to bite into the bloody matter of his life, to cauterize the messiness somehow. She knew he did it when he was upset and anxious: when Ty was unhappy, when Uncle Arthur had a meeting with the Clave, when Helen called and he told her everything was fine, she and Aline shouldn't worry, and yes, he understood why they couldn't come back from Wrangel Island. And he was doing it now. "Julian," said Emma. "You don't have to do this if you don't want to. You don't have to tell us anything--" "I do, actually," he said. "I need to talk for a little while without being interrupted. After that. I'll answer any questions you have. All right?" Mark and Emma nodded. "After the Dark War, it was only because of Uncle Arthur that they let us come back here, to our home," he said. "It was only because we had a guardian that we were allowed to stay together. A guardian who was related to us, not too young or too old, someone willing to promise to look after six children, make sure they were tutored and trained. No one else would have done it except Helen, and she was exiled--" "And I was gone," Mark said bitterly. "It wasn't your fault--" Julian stopped, took a deep breath, and shook his head minutely. "If you talk," he said, "if you say anything, I won't be able to get through this." Mark ducked his chin. "My apologies." "Even if you hadn't been taken, Mark, you'd have been too young. Only someone over eighteen can run an Institute and be the guardian of children." Julian glanced down at his hands, as if struggling internally, and then looked back up. "The Clave thought Uncle Arthur would be that guardian. So did we. I thought it when he came here, and even for weeks afterward. Maybe months. I don't remember. I know that he never really bothered to try to get to know any of us, but I told myself it didn't matter. I told myself we didn't need a guardian who would love us. Just someone who would keep us together." His eyes locked with Emma's, and the next words he spoke seemed to be directly to her. "We loved each other enough, I thought. For it not to matter. Maybe he couldn't show affection, but he could still be a good custodian of the Institute. Then as he came downstairs less and less, and the letters from other Institutes and calls from the Clave went unanswered, I started to realize there was more that was seriously wrong. It was soon after the Cold Peace, and territorial disputes were ripping the city apart, vamps and werewolves and warlocks going after what used to belong to faeries. We were besieged with calls, visits, demands we handle the problem. I'd go up to the attic, bring Arthur his food, beg him to deal with what needed to be done to keep the Clave from stepping in. Because I knew what would happen if they did. We'd no longer have a guardian, and then we'd no longer have a home. And then--" He took a deep breath. "They would have sent Emma to the new Academy in Idris. It was what they wanted to do in the first place. They would have sent the rest of us to London, probably. Tavvy was just a baby. They would have placed him with another family. Drusilla too. As for Ty--imagine what they would have done with Ty. The moment he didn't act the way they thought he should, they would have shoved him into the 'dregs' program at the Academy. Separated him from Livvy. It would have killed them both." Julian paced restlessly up to the portrait of Jesse Blackthorn and stared into his ancestor's green eyes. "So I begged Arthur to respond to the Clave, to do anything that would show that he was the head of the Institute. Letters were piling up. Urgent messages. We didn't have weapons and he wouldn't requisition them. We were running out of seraph blades. I came upstairs one night to ask him--" His voice cracked. "To ask him if he'd sign letters if I wrote them, about the territorial disputes, and I found him on the floor with a knife. He was cutting his skin open, he said, to let the evil out." He stared steadfastly at the portrait. "I bandaged him up. But after that I talked to him, and I realized. Uncle Arthur's reality is not our reality. He lives in a dreamworld where sometimes I'm Julian and sometimes I'm my father. He talks to people who aren't there. Oh, there are times when he's clear about who he is and where he is. But they come and go. There are bad periods where he doesn't know any of us for weeks. Then times of clarity where you might imagine he was getting better. But he'll never get better." "You're saying he's mad," said Mark. "Madness" was the faerie word for it; it was a faerie punishment, in fact, the bringing down of madness, the shattering of someone's mind. "Lunacy" was what Shadowhunters called it. Emma had a sense there were different words for it among mundanes--a faint sense she had from bits and pieces of movies she had seen, books she had read. That there was a less cruel and absolute way to think about those whose minds ran differently than most--whose thoughts gave them pain and fear. But the Clave was cruel and absolute. It was there in the words that described the code by which they lived. The Law is hard, but it is the Law. "Lunatic, I guess the Clave would say," said Julian with a bitter twist to his mouth. "It's amazing that you're still a Shadowhunter if you have a sickness of the body, but apparently not if you have a sickness of the mind. I knew even when I was twelve that if the Clave found out what kind of state Arthur was really in, they'd take the Institute. They'd break up our family and scatter us. And I would not let that happen." He looked from Mark to Emma, his eyes blazing. "I had enough of my family taken from me during the war," he said. "We all did. We'd lost so much. Mother, Father, Helen, Mark. They would have torn us apart until we were adults and by then we wouldn't be a family anymore. They were my children. Livvy. Ty. Dru. Tavvy. I raised them. I became Uncle Arthur. I took the correspondence, I answered it. I did the requisitioning. I drew up the patrol schedules. I never let anyone know Arthur was sick. I said he was eccentric, a genius, hard at work in his attic. The truth was--" He looked away. "When I was younger I hated him. I never wanted him to come out of his attic, but sometimes he had to. The disputes over territory had to be handled in person. There were face-to-face meetings that couldn't be avoided, and no one was going to hold their important summit with a twelve-year-old boy. So I went to Malcolm. He was able to create a drug that I could give to Uncle Arthur. It forced periods of clarity. They only lasted a few hours, and afterward Arthur would have headaches." Emma thought of the way Arthur had clutched his head after the meeting with the faerie representatives in the Sanctuary. The memory of the agony on his face--she couldn't push it away, though she wanted to. "Sometimes I'd try to keep him out of the way with other methods," Julian said, his voice full of self-loathing. "Like tonight, Malcolm gave him a sleeping draught. I know it's wrong. Believe me. I've felt like I might go to Hell for it. If there is a Hell. I knew I shouldn't do what I was doing. Malcolm kept quiet, he never told anyone, but I could tell he didn't exactly approve. He wanted me to tell the truth. But the truth would have destroyed our family." Mark leaned forward. His expression was unreadable. "What about Diana?" "I never exactly told her," said Julian. "But I think she's guessed at least some of it." "Why couldn't she have been asked to run the Institute? Instead of it being in the hands of a twelve-year-old boy?" "I asked her. She said no. She said it was impossible. She was genuinely sorry, and she said she'd help however she could. Diana has-- her own secrets." He turned away from the portrait of Jesse. "One last thing. I said I hated Arthur. But that was a long time ago. I don't hate him now. I hate the Clave for what they would do to him, to us, if they knew." He bent his head. The extraordinarily bright witchlight turned the edges of his hair to gold and the scars on his skin to silver. "So now you know," he said. His hands tightened on the back of the chair. "If you hate me, I understand. I can't think of anything else I could have done. But I'd understand." Emma stood up from her chair. "I think we knew," she said. "We didn't know ... but we knew." She looked at Julian. "We did, didn't we? We knew someone was taking care of everything and that it wasn't Arthur. If we let ourselves believe he ran the Institute, it was because it was easier. It was what we wanted to be true." Julian closed his eyes. When he opened them again, they were fixed on his brother. "Mark?" he said, and the question was implicit in the single word: Mark, do you hate me? Mark slid off the table. The witchlight turned his pale hair to white. "I have no right to pass judgment upon you, brother. Once I was the elder, but now you are elder than I. When I was in the faerie country, each night I would think of each of you--of you and Helen, of Livvy and Ty and Dru and Tavvy. I gave the stars your names, so that when I saw them wink to light in the sky I felt as if you were with me. It was all I could do to still the fear that you were hurt or dying and that I would never know. But I have come back to a family not just alive and healthy, but whose bonds have not been severed, and that is because of what you have done. There is love here, among you. Such love as takes my breath out of my body. There has even been enough love left for me." Julian was looking at Mark with hesitant astonishment. Emma tasted tears in the back of her throat. She wanted to go to Julian and put her arms around him, but a thousand things held her back. "If you want me to tell the others," Julian said hoarsely, "I will." "Now is not the time to decide," Mark said, and in that single sentence, in the way he looked at Julian now, for the first time since Mark had returned Emma could see a world in which Mark and Julian had been together, had raised their siblings together and come to agreements about what to do together. For the first time, she could see the harmony they had lost. "Not when there are enemies circling us and the Institute, not when our lives and blood are on the line." "It's a heavy burden to bear, this secret," said Julian, and there was a warning in his tone, but hopefulness as well. Emma's heart ached for the wrongness of all of it: for the painful and desperate choices made by a twelve-year-old boy to keep his family with him. For the darkness that surrounded Arthur Blackthorn, which was not of his making but which if revealed would only find him punished by his own government. For the weight of a thousand lies, told in good faith, because lies told in good faith were still lies. "And if the Followers go through with their threat--" "But how did they know?" Emma said. "How did they know about Arthur?" Julian shook his head. "I don't know," he said. "But I think we're going to need to find out." Cristina watched as Diego, having laid her down on one of the infirmary beds, realized that he couldn't sit beside her with a sword and crossbow attached to him and began awkwardly to remove them. Diego was rarely awkward. In her memory he was graceful, the more graceful of the two Rocio Rosales brothers, though Jaime was more warlike and more fierce. He hung his crossbow and sword up, then unzipped his dark hoodie and flung it over one of the pegs near the door. He was facing away from her; through his white T-shirt she could see that he had dozens of new scars, and even more Marks, some of them permanent. A great black rune for Courage in Battle spread down his right shoulder blade, a tendril of it rising above his collar. He looked as if he'd grown broader, his waist, shoulders, and back hard with a new layer of muscle. His hair had grown out, long enough to touch his collar. It brushed against his cheek as he turned to look at her. She'd been able to fight off her shock at seeing Diego in the whirl of events since she'd seen his face in the alley. But now it was only the two of them, alone in the infirmary, and she was looking at him and seeing the past. The past she'd run away from and tried to forget. It was there in the way he pulled out the chair beside her bed and leaned over to carefully unlace her boots, pull them away, and roll up the left leg of her pants. It was there in the way his lashes brushed his cheeks when he concentrated, running the point of his stele over her leg beside the wound, circling it in healing runes. It was there in the freckle at the corner of his mouth and the way he frowned as he sat back and surveyed his rune work critically. "Cristina," he said. "Is it better?" The pain had eased. She nodded, and he sat back, his stele in his hand. He was gripping it tightly enough that the old scar across the back of his hand stood out whitely, and she remembered the same scar and his fingers unbuttoning his shirt in her bedroom in San Miguel de Allende, while the bells of the parroquia rang out through the windows. "It's better," she said. "Good." He put the stele away. "Tenemos que hablar." "In English, please," she said. "I am trying to keep up my practice." An irritated look passed across his face. "You don't need the practice. Your English is perfect, as mine is." "Modest as always." His smile flashed out. "I've missed you giving me a hard time." "Diego . . ." She shook her head. "You shouldn't be here. And you shouldn't say you miss me." His face was all sharp lines: pronounced cheekbones and jaw and temples. Only his mouth was soft, the corners turned down now in unhappiness. She remembered the first time she had ever kissed him, in the Institute garden, then pushed the recollection away viciously. "But it is the truth," he said. "Cristina, why did you run away like that? Why didn't you answer any of my messages or calls?" She held up a hand. "You first," she said. "What are you doing in Los Angeles?" He rested his chin on his folded arms. "After you left, I couldn't stay. Everything reminded me of you. I was on leave from the Scholomance. We were going to spend the summer together. Then you were gone. One minute you were in my life, and then you were ripped out of it. I was lost. I went back to study but I thought only of you." "You had Jaime," she said in a hard voice. "No one has Jaime," he said. "You think he didn't panic when you left? The two of you were supposed to be parabatai." "I think he'll live." Cristina could hear her own voice, cold and small; it seemed to have frozen down to a tiny sliver of ice. He was silent for a moment. "Reports were coming through to the Scholomance from L.A.," he said. "Flares of necromantic magic. Your friend Emma's efforts to investigate the deaths of her parents. The Clave thought she was making a fuss about nothing, that it was clear Sebastian had killed her parents but she wouldn't accept it. I thought she might be right, though. I came out here to look into it, and my first day, I went to the Shadow Market. Look, it's a long story--I found my way to Wells's house--" "Where you decided it was a good idea to shoot a fellow Nephilim with a crossbow?" "I didn't know they were Shadowhunters! I thought they were murderers -- I wasn't shooting to kill--" "No manches," CusUna said bluntly. "You should have stayed and told them you were Nephilim. Those arrows were poisoned. Julian nearly died." "I gathered that." Diego looked rueful. "The arrows weren't poisoned by me. If I'd had any idea, I would have stayed. The weapons I bought at the Shadow Market must have been tainted without my knowing." "Well, what were you doing buying weapons there anyway? Why didn't you come to the Institute?" Cristina demanded. "I did," Diego said, flattening her with surprise. "I came looking for Arthur Blackthorn. I found him in the Sanctuary. I tried to tell him who I was, why I was here. He told me the damnation of the Blackthorns was their own private business, that they didn't want any interference, and that if I knew what was good for me I'd get out of town before everything burned." "He said that?" Cristina sat up in astonishment. "I realized I wasn't welcome here. I thought, even, that the Blackthorns might be involved in the necromancy somehow." "They would never--!" "Well, you can say that. You know them. I didn't know them. All I knew was that the head of the Institute had told me to go away, but I couldn't because you were here. Maybe in danger, maybe even in danger from the Blackthorns. I had to get weapons at the Market because I was afraid that if I went to any of the usual weapons caches it would be found out that I was still here. Look, Cristina, I am not a liar--" "You don't lie?" Cristina demanded. "You want to know why I left home, Diego? In May we were in San Miguel de Allende. I'd gone to the Jardm, and when I came back, you and Jaime were sitting up on the terrace. I was coming through the courtyard; I could hear your voices very clearly. You didn't know I was there." Diego looked puzzled. "I don't..." "I heard him talking to you about how the wrong branch of the Rosales family was in power. It should have been you. He was talking about the plan he had. Surely you remember. The one where you would marry me, and he would become my parabatai, and together you would use your influence over me and my mother to eject her from her position as head of the D.F. Institute, and then you would take over. He said you had the easy job, marrying me, because you could leave me someday. Becoming parabatai means you're stuck with them forever. I remember him saying that." "Cristina . . ." Diego had gone pale. "That's why you left that night. It wasn't because your mother was sick and needed you at the Institute in the city." "I was the one who was sick," Cristina spat. "You broke my heart, Diego, you and your brother. I don't know what's worse, losing your best friend or losing the boy you're in love with, but I can tell you that it was like you both died for me that day. That's why I don't pick up your calls or messages. You don't take calls from a dead boy." "And what about Jaime?" Something flared in his eyes. "What about his calls?" "He never has called," said Cristina, and almost took pleasure in the look of shock on his face. "Maybe he has better sense than you." "Jaime? Jaime?' Diego was on his feet now. A vein in his temple throbbed. "I remember that day, Cristina. Jaime was drunk and he was babbling. Did you hear me say anything or did you only hear him?" Cristina forced herself to think back. In memory it seemed like a cacophony of voices. But ... "I only heard Jaime," she said. "I didn't hear you say a word. Not to defend me. Not to say anything." "There was no point talking to Jaime when he was like that," Diego said bitterly. "I let him talk. I shouldn't have. I had no interest in his plan. I loved you. I wanted to go far away with you. He is my brother, but he is-- He was born with something missing, I think, some piece of his heart where compassion lives." "He was going to be my parabatai," said Cristina. "I was going to be tied to him forever. And you weren't going to say anything to me? Do anything to stop it?" "I was," Diego protested. "Jaime had planned to go to Idris. I was waiting for him to leave. I needed to speak to you when he wasn't there." She shook her head. "You shouldn't have waited." "Cristina." He came toward her, his hands outstretched. "Please, if you don't believe anything else, believe me that I have always loved you. Do you really think I have lied to you since we were children? Since the first time I ever kissed you and you ran away laughing? I was ten years old--do you really think that was some kind of plan?" She didn't reach for his hands. "But Jaime," she said. "I've known him just as long. He was always my friend. But he wasn't, was he? He said things no friend would say, and you knew he was using me, and you said not a word." "I was going to tell you--" "Intentions are nothing," Cristina said. She had thought she would feel some relief, finally telling Diego why she hated him, finally unburdening the knowledge of what she had heard. Finally severing the thread. But it didn't feel severed. She could feel the bond connecting them, as she had when she'd blacked out in the crashing car outside the Institute and woken up with Diego holding her. He'd been whispering in her ear that she would be all right, that she was his Cristina, she was strong. And it had felt for a moment as if the past months had been a dream, and she was home. "I must stay here," Diego said. "These killings, the Followers, they are too important. I am a Centurion; I cannot abandon a mission. But I do not need to remain at the Institute. If you want me to go away, I will." Cristina opened her mouth. But before she could speak, her phone buzzed. It was a message from Emma, stop making out with perfect diego and get to the COMPUTER ROOM, WE NEED YOU. Cristina rolled her eyes and shoved the phone back in her pocket. "We'd better go." <|title|>Chapter 21: A Wind Blew <|startofchapter|>The sky outside the Institute had turned the color of what was very late night or very early morning, depending on your point of view. It had always reminded Julian of blue cellophane or watercolor: the intense blue of evening turned translucent by the imminent arrival of the sun. The inhabitants of the Institute--all but Arthur, who slept on soundly in his attic--had gathered in the computer room. Ty had brought papers and books from the library, and the others were going through them. Tavvy was curled up asleep in the corner. Piles of empty pizza boxes from Nightshade's were stacked on the table. Emma didn't even remember them being delivered, but most of them had been eaten. Mark was busy glaring at Cristina and Diego, though Diego didn't seem to notice. He didn't seem to notice Drusilla staring at him with saucer eyes either. He didn't notice much, Julian thought uncharitably. Maybe being ridiculously good-looking was more time-consuming than it seemed. Emma had finished telling the story of the way she and Cristina had tracked down Sterling and the things he had told them on the car ride home. Ty had been taking notes with a pencil, a second pencil stuck behind his ear. His black hair was ruffled up like a cat's fur. Julian remembered when Ty had been young enough that he could reach out and smooth down his younger brother's hair when it got too messy. Something in him ached at the recollection. "So," Ty said now, turning to Diego and Cristina, who was sitting beside Diego. She was barefoot, one of her pant legs rolled up and her calf bound with bandages. Every once in a while she would shoot Diego a look out of the corner of her eye that was half suspicion, half relief--that he'd helped her? That he was there at all? Julian wasn't sure. "You're a Centurion?'' "I studied at the Scholomance," said Diego. "I was the youngest aspirant ever to become a Centurion." Everyone looked impressed except Mark. Even Ty. "That's like being a detective, isn't it?" he said. "You investigate for the Clave?" "That is one of the things we do," said Diego. "We stand outside the Law that precludes Shadowhunters from involving themselves in issues that relate to faeries." "The Clave can make that exception for any Shadowhunter, though, in exigent cases," said Julian. "Why was Diana told we couldn't investigate? Why did they send you?" "It was judged that your family, with your connection to the Fair Folk, would not be able to objectively investigate a series of murders where some of the victims were faeries." "That is entirely unreasonable," Mark said, his eyes flashing. "Is it?" Diego glanced around. "From all I have heard and seen, you appear to have mounted a secret investigation into this issue, telling the Clave nothing about it. You have compiled evidence that you have not shared. You have discovered a murderous cult operating in secret. ..." "You make it sound so shady," Emma said. "So far all you've done is show up in L.A. and shoot another Shadowhunter." Diego glanced over at Julian. "It's mostly healed," Julian said. "Mostly." "I bet you didn't report that to the Scholomance," said Emma. "Did you. Perfect Diego?" "I have reported nothing to the Scholomance," Diego said. "Not since I found out Cristina was involved in this as well. I would never hurt her." Cristina blushed furiously. "You're a Centurion," Ty said. "You have vows--" "Vows of friendship and love are stronger," said Diego. Drusilla looked at him with cartoon hearts in her eyes. "That's beautiful." Mark rolled his eyes. He was clearly not a member of the Perfect Diego Appreciation Society. "That's very touching," said Emma. "Now talk. What do you know?" Julian glanced at her. She seemed like Emma, ordinary Emma, sharp and encouraging and tough and normal. She even smiled at him quickly before turning her attention back to Diego. Julian listened, half his brain recording Diego's story. The other half was in chaos. For the past five years he had walked a narrow rockway above the ocean, falling away sheer on either side to a boiling cauldron. He had kept his balance by keeping his secrets. Mark had forgiven him. But it wasn't just Mark he'd lied to. Lying to your parabatai ... It wasn't forbidden, but most parabatai didn't. They didn't need or want to conceal things. That he'd concealed so much from Emma must have shocked her. He gazed at her face covertly, trying to read the signs of shock or anger. But he could tell nothing; her face was maddeningly unreadable as Diego launched into his story. When Diego explained that he had come to the Institute when he arrived in Los Angeles, and that Uncle Arthur had chased him off, telling him he didn't want non-Blackthorns interfering in Blackthorn problems, Livvy raised a questioning hand. "Why would he do that?" she said. "Uncle Arthur doesn't like strangers, but he's not a liar." Emma glanced away from her. Julian felt his stomach tighten. His secrets, still a burden. "A lot of Shadowhunters of the older generation don't trust Centurions," he said. "The Scholomance was closed in 1872, and Centurions no longer trained. You know how adults are about things they didn't grow up with." Livvy shrugged, looking mildly placated. Ty was scribbling in his notebook. "Where did you go after that, Diego?" "He met Johnny Rook," said Cristina. "And Rook tipped him off about the Sepulchre, just like he did with Emma." "I went there immediately," Diego said. "I'd been waiting days in the alleys behind the bar." His eyes flicked to Cristina. Julian wondered with a sort of distant cynicism if it was as obvious to everyone else as it was to him that Diego had done everything he did because of Cristina--that if he hadn't been in a panic over her welfare, it was unlikely he would have rushed to the Sepulchre and spent days watching the place to see what would happen. "Then I heard a girl screaming." Emma sat up straight. "We didn't hear that." "I think it was before you arrived," said Diego. "I followed the sound and saw a group of Followers, including Belinda--though I didn't know who they were then--attacking a girl. Slapping her, spitting on her. There were chalk protective circles drawn on the ground. I saw that symbol--the lines of water under the sign for fire. I had seen it at the Market. An old, old sign for resurgence." "Resurgence," echoed Ty. "Necromancy?" Diego nodded. "I fought off the Followers, but the girl got away. Ran to her car." "That was Ava?" Emma guessed. "Yes. She saw me and raced off. I followed her to her house, managed to convince her to tell me everything she knew about the Midnight Theater, the Followers, the Lottery. It wasn't much, but I learned that she had been chosen by the Lottery. That she had been the one who killed Stanley Wells, knowing that if she didn't, she would be tortured and killed herself." "She told you everything?" Livvy said in amazement. "But they're sworn to secrecy." He shrugged. "I don't know why she took me into her confidence--" "Seriously, dude?" Emma said. "Do you not own any mirrors?" "Emma!" hissed Cristina. "She'd murdered him a few days before. She was already torn apart by guilt. She'd shown up in the alley because she wanted to see his body. She said an odd thing about the chalk circles--that they were useless, there to mislead. Very little she was saying made sense." He frowned. "I told her I would protect her. I slept on her porch. The next day she demanded I leave. She said she wished to be with the Guardian and the other Followers. That it was her place. She insisted I go, so I went. I returned to the Market, bought weaponry from Johnny Rook. When I came back to Ava's that night, she was dead. She had been choked and drowned in the pool, her hand sliced off." "I don't understand what's going on with the hands," said Emma. "Ava was missing one hand and was killed; Belinda was missing a hand but they let her live, and she cut off both Sterling's hands after he died." "Maybe they're proof to the Guardian that someone's dead," said Livvy. "Like the Huntsman bringing back Snow White's heart in a box." "Or maybe they're part of the spell," said Diego, with a frown. "Ava and Belinda were missing their dominant hands--perhaps Belinda didn't know which was Sterling's, so she took both." "A piece of the killer to go with the sacrifice?" Julian said. "We're going to need to dig more deeply into the necromancy section of the library." "Yes," said Diego. "I wished I had access to your library after I found Ava Leigh dead. I had failed in my duty to protect a mundane who needed my help. I swore I would find out who had done it. I waited on her roof--" "Yeah, we know what happened," Julian said. "I'll remember it every time I have a twinge in my side during cold weather." Diego inclined his head. "I'm very sorry about that." "I want to know what happened next," Ty said, still scribbling away in his elegant, incomprehensible handwriting. Julian had always thought it looked like cat footprints dancing across a page. His slim, long fingers already had pencil lead on them. "You found out Sterling was the next one chosen and followed him?" "Yes," Diego said. "And I saw you were trying to protect him. I didn't understand why. I am sorry, but after what Arthur said to me, I suspected you all. I knew I should turn you in to the Clave, but I couldn't do it." He looked at Cristina, and then away. "I was outside the bar tonight hoping to stop Sterling, but I admit I also wanted your side of the story. Now I have it. I am glad I was wrong about your involvement." "You should be," muttered Mark. Diego sat back. "So maybe now you tell me what you know. It would only be fair." Julian was relieved when Mark took point on the summary. He was scrupulous about the details, even the bargain with the faeries over his own fate, and the results of his presence at the Institute. "Blackthorn blood," Diego said thoughtfully when Mark was done. "That is interesting. I would have guessed the Carstairs had more relevance to these spells, given the deaths five years ago." "Emma's parents, you mean," said Julian. He remembered them, their laughing eyes and their love for Emma. They could never be just "the deaths" to him. Out of the corner of his eye, he saw Tavvy slide off the armchair where he'd been curled up. Quietly he went to the door and slipped out. He must be exhausted; he'd probably been waiting for Julian to put him to bed. Julian felt a pang for his smallest brother, so often trapped in rooms full of older people talking about blood and death. "Yes," said Diego. "One of the questions I have had has been the fact that they were killed five years ago, and then there were no more killings until this last year. Why such a gap in time?" "We thought maybe the spell required it," Livvy said, and yawned. She looked exhausted, dark shadows under her eyes. They all did. "That is another thing: In the car, Sterling said it didn't matter what kind of creature they killed, human or faerie--even Nephilim, if we count the Carstairs murders." Cristina said, "He said they couldn't murder werewolves or warlocks--" "I imagine they were staying away from creatures protected by the Accords," said Julian. "It would have drawn attention. Our attention." "Yes," said Diego. "But otherwise, for it not to matter what kind of victim they chose? Human or faerie, male or female, old or young? Sacrificial magic requires commonalities among the victims--all those with the Sight, all virgins, or all with a certain type of blood. Here it seems random." Ty was looking at Diego with open admiration. "The Scholomance sounds so cool," he said. "I had no idea they let you learn so much about spells and magic." Diego smiled. Drusilla looked as if she might fall over. Livvy looked as if she'd be impressed if she wasn't so tired. And Mark looked even more annoyed. "Can I see the photos of the convergence?" said Diego. "It sounds very significant. I am impressed you found it." "It was surrounded by Mantid demons when we went, so we have pictures of the inside but not the outside," Mark said as Ty went to get the photos. "As for the demons, Emma and I took care of them." He winked at Emma. She smiled, and Julian felt that short, sharp jab of jealousy that came whenever Mark flirted with Emma. He knew it didn't mean anything. Mark flirted in that way that faeries did, with a sort of courtly humor that had no real weight behind it. But Mark could flirt with Emma if he wanted. He had a choice, and faeries were notoriously fickle . . . and if Mark was interested, then he, Julian, had no right or reason to object. He should support his brother-- wouldn't he be lucky, after all, if his brother and parabatai in love? Didn't people dream about the people who they loved loving one another? Diego raised an eyebrow at Mark but said nothing as Tiberius spread the pictures out on the coffee table. "It's energy magic," said Ty. "We know that much." "Yes," said Diego. "Energy can be stored, especially death energy, and used later in necromancy. But we don't know what someone would need all that energy for." "For a summoning spell," said Livvy, and yawned again. "That's what Malcolm said, anyway." A small crease appeared between Diego's brows. "It is unlikely to be a summoning spell," he said. "Death energy allows you to do death magic. This magician is trying to bring back someone from the dead." "But who?" said Ty, after a pause. "Someone powerful?" "No," said Drusilla. "He's trying to bring back Annabel. Annabel Lee." Everyone looked surprised that Dru had spoken--so surprised that she seemed to shrink back into herself a little. Diego, though, gave her an encouraging smile. "The--the poem's written on the inside of the convergence cave, right?" she went on, looking around worriedly. "And everyone was trying to figure out if it was a code or a spell, but what if it's just a reminder? This person-- the magician--they lost someone they loved, and they're trying to bring her back." "Someone so mad to get back their lost love that they founded a cult, killed more than a dozen people, created that cave at the convergence, etched that poem on the wall, created a Portal to the ocean . . . ?" Livvy sounded dubious. "I would do it," Dru said, "if it was someone I really loved. It might not even have been a girlfriend--maybe a mother or a sister or whatever. I mean, you'd do it for Emma, right, Jules? If she died?" The black horror that was the thought of Emma dying rose against the backs of Julian's eyes. He said, "Don't be morbid, Dru," in a voice that sounded very distant to his own ears. "Julian?" Emma said. "Are you all right?" Thankfully he didn't need to answer. A solemn voice spoke from the doorway. "Dru is right," Tavvy said. He hadn't gone to sleep after all. He stood by the door, wide-eyed, brown hair tousled. He had always been small for his age, and his eyes were big blue-green saucers in his pale face. He was holding something behind his back. "Tavvy," Julian said. "Tavs, what have you got there?" Tavvy drew his hand from behind his back. He was carrying a book-- a child's book, oversize, with an illustrated cover. The title was printed in gold foil. A Treasury of Tales for Nephilim. A Shadowhunter children's book. There were such things, though not many of them. The printing presses in Idris were small. "Where did you get that?" Emma asked, honestly curious. She'd had something like it as a child, but it had been lost with many of her parents' things in the chaos after the war. "Great-Aunt Marjorie gave it to me," Tavvy said. "I like most of the stories. The one about the first parabatai is good, but some of them are sad and scary, like the one about Tobias Herondale. And the one about Lady Midnight is the saddest." "Lady what?" said Cristina, leaning forward. "Midnight," said Tavvy. "Like the theater you went to. I heard Mark say the rhyme and I just remembered I read it before." "You read it before?" Mark echoed incredulously. "When did you see that faerie rhyme, Octavian?" Tavvy opened the book. "There was a Shadowhunter lady," he said. "She fell in love with someone she wasn't supposed to be in love with. Her parents trapped her in an iron castle, and he couldn't get in. She died of sadness, so the man who loved her went to the King of the faeries and asked if there was a way to bring her back. He said there was a rhyme. 'First the flame and then the flood: In the end, it's Blackthorn blood. Seek thou to forget what's past First thirteen and then the last. Search not the book of angels gray, Red or white will lead you far astray. To regain what you have lost, Find the black book at any cost.'" "So what happened?" said Emma. "To the man who went to Faerie?" "He ate and drank faerie food," said Tavvy. "He was trapped there. The legend is that the sound of the waves crashing on the beach is his cries for her to return." Julian exhaled. "How did we not find this?" "Because it's a children's book," said Emma. "It wouldn't have been in the library." "That's dumb," said Tavvy serenely. "It's a good book." "But why?" Julian said. "Why Blackthorn blood?" "Because she was a Blackthorn," said Tavvy. "Lady Midnight. They called her that because she had long black hair, but she had the same eyes as the rest of us. Look." He turned the book around to show a haunting illustration. A woman whose jet-black hair spilled over her shoulders reached out for the retreating figure of a man, her eyes wide--and blue-green as the sea. Livvy gave a little gasp, reaching for the book. Hesitantly, Tavvy let her have it. "Don't tear the pages," he warned. "So this is the full rhyme," she said. "This is what's written on the bodies." "It's instructions," Mark said. "If the rhyme is a true faerie rhyme, then for the right person, it is a clear list of instructions. How to bring back the dead --not just any dead, but her. This Blackthorn woman." "Thirteen," said Emma. Despite her exhaustion, her heart was racing with excitement. She met Cristina's eyes across the room. "Yes," Cristina breathed. "What Sterling said--after we caught him, after he'd killed the girl. He said she was the thirteenth." Emma said, '"First thirteen and then the last.' He's killed thirteen. He's got one last one to go and then he's done. He'll have enough magic to bring back Lady Midnight." "So there'll be one more," said Julian. "One that might be different from the last." "There must be more instructions than this," said Ty. "No one could figure out exactly how to complete this spell just from this rhyme." He looked around, a flicker of uncertainty in his gray eyes. The look he got very rarely, but sometimes, when he thought that there was something in the world that everyone understood but him. "Could they?" "No," Mark said. "But the rhyme tells you where to look for the rest of the instructions. 'Search not the book of angels gray'--the answer is not in the Gray Book. Nor is it in the Book of the White or in the Red Texts." "It is in the Black Volume of the Dead," said Diego. "I have heard of that book, in the Scholomance." "What is it?" said Emma. "Are there copies? Is it something we could get hold of?" Diego shook his head. "It is a book of very dark magic. Almost legendary. Even warlocks are forbidden to own it. If there are copies, I do not know where. But we should set ourselves to find out, tomorrow." "Yeah," Livvy said, her voice blurry with sleep. "Tomorrow." "Do you need to go to bed, Livvy?" Julian asked. It was a rhetorical question: Livvy was drooping like a wilted dandelion. At his words, though, she forced herself bolt upright. "No, I'm fine, I could stay up--" Ty's face changed subtly as he looked at his twin sister. "I'm exhausted," he said. "I think we should all go to sleep. In the morning we'll be able to concentrate better." Julian doubted Ty was actually tired at all: When he was engaged in a puzzle, he could stay up for days at a time. But Livvy nodded gratefully at the words. "You're right," she said. She slid off the chair she was sitting on and picked up Tavvy, handing him back his book. "Come on," she said. "You should definitely be in bed." "I helped, though, didn't I?" Tavvy asked as his sister carried him toward the door. He was looking over at Julian as he said it, and Julian remembered himself as a child, looking toward Andrew Blackthorn that way. A boy looking to his father, seeking approval. "You didn't yust help," said Julian. "I think you may have solved it, Tavs." "Yay," said Tavvy sleepily, and put his head down on Livvy's shoulder. The others soon followed Ty and Livvy to bed, but Emma found she couldn't sleep. She found herself, instead, sitting on the front steps of the Institute before the sun rose. She was in flip-flops, a tank top, and pajama bottoms. The air coming off the ocean was chilly, but she didn't feel it. She was staring at the water. From every angle of the steps you could see the ocean: blue-black in the rising morning now, like ink, raked with swells of white foam where the waves broke far out to sea. The moon had shrunk and cast an angular shadow across the water. A blue-and-silver dawn. She remembered the spilling cold of that blue ocean all around her. The taste of salt water and demon blood. The feeling that the water was pressing her down, crushing her bones. And the worst part, the fear that once her parents had felt the same pain, the same panic. She thought of Julian then. The way he had looked in the dining room. The strain in his voice as he'd stood there telling her and Mark everything he'd done for the past five years. "Emma?" Emma half-turned and saw Perfect Diego coming down the steps. He looked immaculate, despite the night they'd had, even his boots polished. His dark brown hair was thick and fell charmingly over one of his eyes. He looked a bit like a prince in a fairy-tale book. She thought of Julian again. His untidy hair, his bitten nails, his dusty boots, the paint on his hands. "Hey, Perfect Diego," she said. "I wish you wouldn't call me that." "You wish in vain," Emma said. "Where are you going? Is Cristina all right?" "She's asleep." Perfect Diego looked out at the ocean. "It's very beautiful here. You must find it peaceful." "And you must be kidding." He flashed a fairly perfect smile. "You know, when there aren't murders happening and small armies surrounding the place." "Where are you going?" Emma asked again. "It's practically dawn." "I know the cave will not be open, but I am going to the convergence site to see it for myself. The demons should have disbanded by now. I want to take another look around the area, see if there is anything you missed." "You are just bursting with tact, aren't you?" Emma said. "Fine. Go ahead. See what we all missed while we were nearly being cut to pieces by giant grasshopper demons." "Mantids aren't technically grasshoppers--" Emma glared. Diego shrugged and jogged to the foot of the steps. He paused there and looked back over his shoulder at her. "Does anyone else in the Clave know about your investigation?" he said. "Anyone but your family?" "Just Diana," said Emma. "Diana is your tutor?" When Emma nodded, he frowned. "Weren't Jace Herondale and the Lightwoods betrayed by their own tutor?" "She'd never betray us," Emma said, outraged. "Not to the Clave or to anyone else. Hodge Starkweather was different." "Different how?" "Starkweather wasn't Diana. He was a minion of Valentine's. Diana is a good person." "So where is she now?" Diego asked. "I'd like to meet her." Emma hesitated. "She . . ." "She's in Thailand," said a voice from behind them. It was Julian. He'd shrugged on a hooded army jacket over his jeans and T-shirt. "There was a witch there she wanted to question about energy spells. Someone she knew when she was younger." He paused. "We can trust her." Diego inclined his head. "I didn't mean to imply otherwise." Julian leaned against one of the pillars, and he and Emma watched as Diego strode away across the trampled grass and headed down the road. The moon had disappeared entirely and the eastern sky was beginning to turn pink. "What are you doing out here?" Julian said finally in a quiet voice. "I couldn't sleep," said Emma. Julian had his head tipped back, as if he were bathing in the dim illumination of the dawn. The strange light made him into something else, someone made out of marble and silver, someone whose inky curls clung to his temples and neck like the acanthus leaves in Greek art. He wasn't perfect, like Diego, but to Emma, there had never been anyone more beautiful. "We're going to have to talk about this eventually," she said. "What you told me and Mark." "I know." He looked down at his long legs, the frayed hems of his jeans, his boots. "I had hoped--I suppose I'd hoped it would never happen, or that at least we'd be adults when it did." "So let's be adults about it. Why didn't you tell me before?" "Do you think I liked keeping secrets from you? Do you think I didn't want to tell you?" "If you'd wanted to, you could have." "No, I couldn't." He spoke with a quiet despair. "Did you not trust me? Did you think I'd tell on you?" Julian shook his head. "That wasn't it." Enough light had spread over the landscape for the color of his eyes to be visible despite the darkness. They looked like artificially illuminated water. Emma thought of the night Julian's mother had died. She had been ill, attended by Silent Brothers to the end. There were some diseases even Nephilim magic couldn't cure: She had cancer of the bone, and it had killed her. Andrew Blackthorn, newly widowed, had been too devastated to be the one to go to Tavvy when the baby cried in the night. Helen had been efficient: heating Tavvy's bottles, changing him, dressing him. But Julian had been the one who stayed with him during the day. While Mark and Helen trained, Julian sat in Tavvy's room and sketched or painted. Emma would sit with him there sometimes, and they would play the way they normally did, with the baby gurgling in his crib a few feet away. At the time Emma hadn't thought much of it. She, like Julian, had been only ten years old. But she recalled it now. "I remember when your mother died," she said. "And you took care of Tavvy during the days. I asked you why, and I remember what you said. Do you?" "I said it was because no one else could," said Julian, looking at her quizzically. "Mark and Helen had to train. ... My father was . . . well, you know how he was." "Everything you've done is because no one else would or could do it. If you hadn't covered up for Arthur, no one else would even have thought of it. If you hadn't been so determined to hold everything together, no one else would have. Maybe it started back then, when you took care of Tavvy. Maybe it gave you the idea." He exhaled. "Maybe. I don't entirely know myself." "I still wish you'd told me. I know you thought you were being unselfish "I didn't," he said. She looked at him in surprise. "I did it for entirely selfish reasons," he said. "You were my escape, Emma. You were my way away from everything terrible. When I was with you, I was happy." Emma stood up. "But that can't have been the only time you were happy --" "Of course I'm happy with my family," he said. "But I'm responsible for them--I was never responsible for you--we're responsible for each other; that's what parabatai means, don't you understand, Emma, you're the only one, the only one who was ever meant to look after me." "Then I failed you," she said, feeling a bone-deep sense of disappointment with herself. "I should have known what you were going through, and I didn't--" "Don't ever say that again!" He shoved himself away from the pillar, the rising sun, behind him, turning the edges of his hair to copper. Emma couldn't see his expression, but she knew it was furious. Emma got to her feet. "What, that I should have known? I should have-- " "That you failed me," he said hotly. "If you knew--you've been all that's kept me going, for weeks sometimes, months. Even when I was in England, thinking of you kept me going. It's why I had to be parabatai with you--it was completely selfish--I wanted to tie you to me, no matter what, even though I knew it was a bad idea, even though I knew I--" He broke off, a look of horror flashing across his face. "Even though what?" Emma demanded. Her heart was pounding. "Even though what, Julian?" He shook his head. Her hair had escaped from its ponytail and the wind was whipping it around her face, bright pale strands on the wind. He reached up to tuck one behind her ear: He looked like someone caught in a dream, trying to wake up. "It doesn't matter," he said. "Do you love me?" Her voice was a whisper. He wound a piece of her hair around his finger, a silver-gold ring. "What's the difference?" he asked. "It won't change anything if I do." "It changes things," she whispered. "It changes everything for me." "Emma," he said. "You'd better go back inside. Go to sleep. We both should...." She gritted her teeth. "If you're going to walk away from me now, you'll have to do it yourself." He hesitated. She saw the tension in him, in his body, rise like a wave about to break. "Walk away from me," she said harshly. "Walk away." His tension crested and fell; something in him seemed to collapse, water breaking against rocks. "I can't," he said, his voice low and broken, "God, I can't," and he half-closed his eyes, bringing up his other hand to cradle her face. His hands slid into her hair, and he drew her toward him. She inhaled a breath of cold air and then his mouth was on hers and her senses exploded. She had wondered, in the back of her mind, if what had happened on the beach between them had been a fluke born of their shared adrenaline. Surely kisses weren't meant to be like that, so all-encompassing that they ripped through you like lightning, tore down your defenses and decimated your self-control. Apparently not. Her hands fisted in the material of Julian's jacket, dragging him toward her, closer, closer. There was sugar and caffeine on his lips. He tasted like energy. Her hands slid up under his shirt, touching the bare skin of his back, and he broke away from her to suck in his breath. His eyes were closed, his lips parted. "Emma," he breathed, and the desire in his voice tore a scorching path through her. When he reached for her, she almost fell against him. He swiveled her body around, pushing her back against a pillar, his body a strong, hot line against hers-- A sound cut through the fog in her mind. Emma and Julian tore apart, staring. Both of them had been in the Hall of Accords in Idris when the Wild Hunt had come, howling around the walls, tearing at the ceiling. Emma remembered the sound of Gwyn's horn, blasting through the air. Vibrating every nerve in her body. A high, hollow, lonesome sound. It came again now, echoing through the morning. The sun had risen while Emma had been wrapped up in Julian, and the road that led down to the highway was illuminated by sunlight. There were three figures coming up it, on horseback: one black horse, one white, and one gray. Emma recognized two of the riders immediately: Kieran, sitting his horse like a dancer, his hair nearly black in the sunlight, and next to him, larlath, wrapped in dark robes. The third rider was familiar to Emma from a hundred illustrations in books. He was a big, broad man, bearded, wearing dark armor that looked like the overlapping bark of a tree. He had tucked his horn under his arm; it was a massive object, etched all over with a pattern of deer. Gwyn the Hunter, the leader of the Wild Hunt, had come to the Institute. And he did not look pleased. <|title|>Chapter 22: Those Who Were Older <|startofchapter|>Mark stood at an upstairs window and looked out at the sun rising over the desert. The mountains seemed cut out of dark paper, sharp and distinct against the sky. For a moment he imagined he could reach out and touch them, that he could fly from this window and reach the top of the highest peak. The moment passed, and once again he saw the distance between himself and the mountains. Ever since he had returned to the Institute, he had felt as if he were struggling to see everything through a thin layer of glamour. Sometimes he saw the Institute as it was, sometimes it faded from view and instead he saw a bare landscape and the fires of the Wild Hunt burning in small encampments. Sometimes he turned to say something to Kieran only to discover that he wasn't there. Kieran had been there every morning that Mark had woken up for years of Faerie time. Kieran had been meant to come and see him the night Mark had watched the children in the kitchen. But he'd never come. There'd been no communication from him, either, and Mark was worried now. He told himself that the faerie prince was probably just being cautious, but he found his hand straying to the arrowhead at his throat more often than usual. It was a gesture that reminded him of Cristina, the way she touched the medallion at her throat when she was nervous. Cristina. He wondered what had passed between her and Diego. Mark turned away from the window just as the sound came. His hearing had been sharpened by years in the Hunt; he doubted anyone else in the Institute would have heard it or been awakened. It was a single note, the sound of Gwyn the Hunter's horn: sharp and harsh, as lonely as mountains. Mark's blood went cold. It was not a greeting or even a call to the Hunt. It was the note Gwyn blew when they were searching out a deserter. It was the sound of betrayal. Julian had straightened up, raking his hands through his tangled curls, his jaw set. "Emma," he said. "Go back inside." Emma turned and strode back into the Institute--only long enough to seize up Cortana from where it hung beside the door. She stalked back outside to find that the faerie convoy had dismounted their horses, who remained unnaturally still, as if tied in place. Their eyes were blood red, their manes wound with red flowers. Faerie steeds. Gwyn had approached the foot of the steps. He had a strange face, slightly alien: wide eyes, broad cheekbones, wicked eyebrows. One black eye, and one that was pale blue. Beside him came larlath, his yellow eyes unblinking. And at his other side, Kieran. He was as beautiful as Emma had remembered him, and looked as cold. His pale face was as severely cut as white marble, his black and silver eyes uncanny in the daylight. "What's going on?" Emma demanded. "Has something happened?" Gwyn glanced at her dismissively. "This is none of your affair, Carstairs girl," he said. "This matter concerns Mark Blackthorn. None of the rest of you." Julian crossed his arms over his chest. "Anything that concerns my brother concerns me. In fact, it concerns all of us." Kieran's mouth set into a hard, uncompromising line. "We are Gwyn and Kieran of the Wild Hunt, and larlath of the Unseelie Court, here on a matter of justice. And you will fetch your brother." Emma moved to stand in the center of the top step, unsheathing Cortana, which sent bright sparks skittering into the air. "Don't tell him what to do," she said. "Not here. Not on the steps of the Institute." Gwyn gave an unexpected, rumbling laugh. "Don't be a fool, Carstairs girl," he said. "No single Shadowhunter can hold off three of the Fair Folk, not even armed with one of the Great Swords." "I wouldn't underestimate Emma," said Julian in a voice like razor wire. "Or you'll find your head lying on the ground next to your still- twitching body." "How graphic," said larlath, amused. "I'm here," said a breathless voice behind them, and Emma half- closed her eyes, fear going through her like pain. Mark. It looked as if he had thrown on jeans and a sweater in a hurry, and jammed his feet into sneakers. His blond hair was ruffled and he looked younger than he usually did, his eyes wide with surprise and undefended astonishment. "But my time isn't up," Mark said. He was speaking to Gwyn but looking at Kieran. There was an expression on his face--one Emma couldn't interpret or describe, one that seemed to mix pleading and pain and gladness. "We're still trying to find out what's going on. We're nearly there. But the deadline--" "Deadline?" Kieran echoed. "Listen to you. You sound like one of them." Mark looked surprised. "But, Kieran--" "Mark Blackthorn," said larlath. "You stand accused of sharing one of the secrets of Faerie with a Shadowhunter, despite being expressly forbidden to do so." Mark let the door of the Institute fall shut behind him. He took several steps forward, until he was standing beside Julian. He clasped his hands behind his back; they were shaking. "I--I don't know what you mean," he said. "I haven't told my family anything forbidden." "Not your family," said Kieran, an ugly twist to his voice. "Her.""Her?" Julian said, looking at Emma, but she shook her head. "Not me," she said. "He means Cristina." "You didn't expect us to leave you unobserved, did you, Mark?" Kieran said. His black and silver eyes were like etched daggers. "I was outside the window when I heard you speaking with her. You told her how Gwyn could be deprived of his powers. A secret known only to the Hunt, and forbidden to repeat." Mark had turned the color of ashes. "I didn't--" "There is no point lying," said larlath. "Kieran is a prince of Faerie and cannot speak untruths. If he says he overheard this, then he did." Mark shifted his gaze to Kieran. The sunlight no longer seemed beautiful to Emma, but merciless, beating down on Mark's gold hair and skin. Hurt spread across his face like the stain of red from a slap. "It would never mean anything to Cristina. She would never tell anyone. She would never hurt me or the Hunt." Kieran turned his face away, his beautiful mouth twisting at the corner. "Enough." Mark took a step forward. "Kieran," he said. "How can you do this? To me?" Kieran's face was bleak with pain. "Mine is not the betrayal," he said. "Speak to your Shadowhunter princess of promises broken." "Gwyn." Mark turned to plead with the Hunt's leader. "What is between myself and Kieran is not a matter for the law of the Courts or the Hunt. Since when did they interfere in matters of the heart?" Matters of the heart. Emma could see it on both their faces, Mark's and Kieran's, in the way they looked at each other and the way they didn't. She wondered how she had missed it before, in the Sanctuary, that these were two people who loved each other. Two people who had hurt each other the way only two people in love could. Kieran looked at Mark as if Mark had taken something irreplaceably precious from him. And Mark looked-- Mark looked crushed. Emma thought of herself on the beach, in the morning, with Julian, and the lonely screech of the gulls circling overhead. "Child," said Gwyn, and to Emma's surprise, there was gentleness in his voice. "I regret the necessity of this visit more than I can say. And believe me, the Hunt does not interfere, as you say, in matters of the heart. But you broke one of the oldest laws of the Hunt, and put every member of it into danger." "Exactly," said Kieran. "Mark has broken the law of Faerie, and for that, he must return to Faerie with us and tarry no longer in the human world." "No," said larlath. "That is not the punishment." "What?" Kieran turned to him, puzzled. His hair flared at the edges with blue and white like hoarfrost. "But you said--" "I said nothing to you of punishments, princeling," said larlath, stepping forward. "You told me of Mark Blackthorn's actions and I said they would be duly dealt with. If you believed that meant he would be dragged back to Faerie to be your companion, then perhaps you should remember that the security of the gentry of Faerie is more paramount than the fancies of a son of the Unseelie King." He looked hard at Mark, his eyes eerie in the bright sunlight. "The King has given me leave to choose your punishment," he said. "It will be twenty whip-lashes across the back, and count yourself lucky it is not more." "NO!" The word was like an explosion. To Emma's surprise it was Julian-- Julian, who never raised his voice. Julian, who never shouted. He started down the steps; Emma followed him, Cortana ready in her hand. Kieran and Mark were silent, looking at each other. The rest of the blood had left Kieran's face and he looked sick. He didn't move as Julian stepped forward, blocking Kieran's view of Mark. "If any of you touch my brother to harm him," Julian said, "I will kill you." Gwyn shook his head. "Do not think I do not admire your spirit. Blackthorn," he said. "But I would think twice before moving to harm a convoy of Faerie." "Move to prevent this, and our agreement will be at an end," said larlath. "The investigation will stop, and we will take Mark back with us to Faerie. And he will be whipped there, and worse than any whipping he could receive here. You will win nothing and lose much." Julian's hands tightened into fists. "You think you alone understand honor? You who cannot understand what we might lose by standing here and letting you humiliate and torture Mark? This is why faeries are despised-- this senseless cruelty." "Careful, boy," rumbled Gwyn. "You have your Laws and we have ours. The difference is only that we do not pretend ours are not cruel." "The Law is hard," said larlath with amusement, "but it is the Law." Mark spoke for the first time since larlath had pronounced his sentence. "A bad law is no law," he said. He looked dazed. Emma thought of the boy who had collapsed in the Sanctuary, who had screamed when he was touched and spoken of beatings that still clearly terrified him. She felt as if her heart was being ripped out--to whip Mark, of all people? Mark, whose body might heal but whose soul would never recover? "You came to us," Julian said. There was desperation in his voice. "You came to us--you made a bargain with us. You needed our help. We have put everything on the line, risked everything, to solve this. Fine, Mark made a mistake, but this loyalty test is misplaced." "It is not about loyalty," said larlath. "It is about setting an example. These are the laws. This is how it works. If we let Mark betray us, others will learn we are weak." His look was pleased. Greedy. "The bargain is important. But this is more important." Mark moved forward then, catching at Julian's shoulder. "You can't change it, little brother," he said. "Let it happen." He looked at larlath, and then at Gwyn. He didn't look at Kieran. "I will take the punishment." Emma heard larlath laugh. It was a cold, sharp sound like cracking icicles. He reached into his cloak and pulled out a handful of blood-red stones. He threw them to the ground. Mark, clearly familiar with what larlath was doing, blanched. At the spot on the ground where larlath had thrown his stones, something had begun to grow. A tree, bent and gnarled and twisted, its bark and leaves the color of blood. Mark watched it in horrified fascination. Kieran looked as if he was going to throw up. "Jules," Emma whispered. It was the first time she had called him that since the night on the beach. Julian stared blindly at Emma for a moment before turning and lurching the rest of the way down the steps. After a frozen moment Emma followed him. larlath moved immediately to block her way. "Put your sword away," he snarled. "No weapons in the presence of the Fair Folk. We know well you cannot be trusted with them." Emma whipped Cortana up so fast that the blade was a blur. The tip of it sailed beneath larlath's chin, a millimeter from his skin, describing the arc of a deadly smile. He made a noise in his throat even as she slammed the sword into the sheath on her back with enough force to be audible. She stared at him, eyes blazing with rage. Gwyn chuckled. "And here I thought all the Carstairs were good for was music." larlath gave Emma a filthy look before whirling away and stalking toward Mark. He had begun unwinding a coil of rope from where it was tied at his waist. "Put your hands on the trunk of the quickbeam," he said. Emma assumed he meant the dark, twisted tree with its sharp branches and blood-colored leaves. "No." Kieran, sounding desperate, whirled fluidly toward larlath. He dropped to the ground, kneeling, his hands outstretched. "I beg you," he said. "As a prince of the Unseelie Court, I beg you. Do not hurt Mark. Do what you will with me, instead." larlath snorted. "Whipping you would incur your father's wrath. This will not. Get to your feet, child-prince. Do not shame yourself further." Kieran staggered upright. "Please," he said, looking not at larlath, but at Mark. Mark gave him a look full of so much searing hate Emma nearly recoiled. Kieran looked, if possible, even sicker. "You should have forseen this, whelp," said larlath, but his gaze wasn't on Kieran--it was on Mark, hungry, full of appetite, as if the thought of a whipping drew him like the thought of food. Mark reached out toward the tree-- Julian stepped forward. "Whip me instead," he said. For a moment everyone froze. Emma felt as if a baseball bat had slammed into her chest. "No," she tried to say, but the word wouldn't come. Mark whirled around to face his brother. "You can't," he said. "Mine is the crime. Mine must be the punishment." Julian stepped past Mark, almost pushing him aside in his determination to present himself in front of Gwyn. He stood with his back straight and chin up. "In a faerie battle, one can pick a champion to represent them," he said. "If I could stand in for my brother in a fight, why not now?" "Because I'm the one who broke the law!" Mark looked desperate. "My brother was taken at the beginning of the Dark War," Julian said. "He never fought in the battle. His hands are clean of faerie blood. Whereas I was in Alicante. I killed Fair Folk." "He's goading you," Mark said. "He doesn't mean it--" "I do mean it," said Julian. "It is the truth." "If someone volunteers to take the place of a condemned man, we cannot gainsay it." Gwyn's look was troubled. "Are you sure, Julian Blackthorn? This is not your punishment to take." Julian inclined his head. "I'm sure." "Let him take the whipping," Kieran said. "He wants it. Let him have it." After that, things happened very quickly. Mark threw himself at Kieran, his expression murderous. He was shouting as he dug his fingers into the front of Kieran's shirt. Emma moved forward and was knocked back by Gwyn, who moved to pull Kieran and Mark apart, pushing Mark brutally aside. "Bastard," Mark said. His mouth was bleeding. He spit at Kieran's feet. "You arrogant--" "Enough, Mark," snapped Gwyn. "Kieran is a prince of the Unseelie Court." "He is my enemy," said Mark. "Now and forevermore, my enemy." He raised a hand as if to strike Kieran; Kieran didn't move, just looked at him with shattered eyes. Mark lowered his hand and turned away, as if he couldn't bear to look at Kieran any longer. "Jules," he said instead. "Julian, please, don't do this. Let me." Julian gave his brother a slow, sweet smile. In that smile was all the love and wonder of the little boy who'd lost his brother and against all odds, gotten him back. "It can't be you, Mark--" "Take him," larlath said to Gwyn, and Gwyn, reluctance written all over his face, stepped forward and caught hold of Mark, pulling him away from Julian. Mark struggled, but Gwyn was a massive man with enormous arms. He held tightly to Mark, his expression impassive, as Julian reached down and pulled off his jacket, and then his shirt. In the bright daylight his skin, lightly tanned but paler over his back and chest, looked vulnerable and exposed. His hair was ruffled all over from the collar of the shirt, and as he dropped it on the ground he looked at Emma. His look broke through the icy vise of shock that gripped her. "Julian." Her voice shook. "You can't do this." She moved forward and found larlath blocking her way. "Stay," larlath hissed. He stepped away from Emma, who went to go after him and found her legs pinned in place. She couldn't move. The buzz of enchantment prickled along her legs and spine, holding her as firmly in place as a bear trap. She tried to wrench herself forward and had to bite back a shriek of pain as the faerie magic clamped and tore at her skin. Julian took a step forward and put his hands against the tree, bending his head. The long line of his spine was incongruously beautiful to Emma. It looked like the arch of a wave, just before it crashed. White scars and black Marks patterned his back like a child's illustration drawn in skin and blood. "Let me go!" Mark shouted, twisting in Gwyn's grasp. It was like a nightmare, Emma thought, one of those dreams where you were running and running and never getting anywhere, except now it was real. She was struggling to move her arms and legs against the invisible force that kept her pinned like a butterfly to a board. larlath strode toward Julian. Something flashed in his hand, something long and thin and silver. As it flicked forward, tasting the air, Emma saw he was clutching the black handle of a silver whip. He drew his arm back. "Foolish Shadowhunters," he said. "Too naive to even know who you can trust." The whip came down. Emma saw it bite into Julian's skin, saw the blood, saw him arch back, his body bowing. Pain exploded inside her. It was as if a bar of fire had been laid across her back. She flinched, tasting blood inside her mouth. "Stop it!" Mark yelled. "Can't you see you're hurting them both? That's not the punishment! Let me go, I don't have a parabatai, let me go, whip me instead --" His words ran together inside Emma's head. Pain was still throbbing through her body. Gwyn, larlath, and Kieran were looking from her to Julian. There was a long, bloody welt along Julian's back, and he was clutching the trunk of the tree. Sweat darkened his hairline. Emma's heart cracked. If what she had felt had been agony, what had he felt? Twice, four times as much? "Send her away," she heard larlath say irritably. "This wailing is ridiculous." "This is not hysterics, larlath," said Kieran. "It's because she's his parabatai. His warrior partner--they're bonded--" "By the Lady, such fuss," larlath hissed, and brought the whip down again. This time Julian made noise. A choked sound, barely audible. He slid to his knees, still clutching at the tree. Pain lanced through Emma again, but now she was braced, prepared. She screamed--not just any scream, but an echoing sound of horror and betrayal, a shriek of rage and pain and fury. Gwyn threw his arm out toward larlath, but he was looking at Emma. "Stop," he said. Emma felt the weight of his gaze, and then a lightness as the enchantment that had pinned her in place snapped asunder. She dashed toward Julian and dropped down beside him, yanking her stele from her belt. She could hear larlath protest, and Gwyn telling him gruffly to leave it be. She paid no attention. All she could see was Julian--Julian on his knees, his arms around the trunk of the tree, his forehead pressed to it. Blood ran down his naked back. The muscles in his shoulders flexed as she reached for him, as if he were bracing himself for a third blow. Jules, she thought, and as if he heard her, he half-turned his face. He had bitten through his lower lip. Blood dripped off his chin. He looked at her blindly, like a man staring at a mirage. "Em?" he gasped. "Shush," she said, putting her hand against his cheek, her fingers in his hair. He was wet with blood and sweat, his pupils blown wide open. She could see herself in them, see her pale, strained face. She laid her stele against his skin. "I need to heal him," she said. "Let me heal him." "This is ridiculous," larlath protested. "The boy should take the whipping --" "Leave it, larlath," said Gwyn. His arms were tight around Mark. larlath subsided, muttering--Mark was struggling and gasping--the stele was cold in Emma's hand--colder still as she brought it down against Julian's skin-- She drew the rune. "Sleep, my love," she whispered, so low that only Julian could hear her. For a moment his eyes fluttered wide, clear and astonished. Then they shut, and he slumped to the ground. "Emma!" Mark's voice was a shout. "What have you done?" Emma rose to her feet, turning to see larlath's face, blazing with rage. Gwyn, though--she thought she caught a flash of amusement in his eyes. "I knocked him out," she said. "He's unconscious. Nothing you can do will wake him." larlath's lip curled. "You think to deprive us of our punishment by depriving him of his ability to feel it? Are you such a fool?" He turned toward Gwyn. "Bring Mark forward," he snarled. "We will whip him instead, and then we will have whipped two Blackthorns." "No!" Kieran cried. "No! I forbid it--I cannot bear it--" "No one cares what you can bear, princeling, least of all I," said larlath. His smile was twisted. "Yes, we will whip both brothers," he said. "Mark will not escape. And I doubt your parabatai will soon forgive you for it," he added, turning back to Emma. "Instead of whipping two Blackthorns," she said, "you can whip a Carstairs. Wouldn't that be better?" Gwyn hadn't moved at larlath's order; now his eyes widened. Kieran drew in his breath. "Julian told you he killed faeries during the Dark War," she said. "But I have killed many more. I cut their throats; I wet my fingers with their blood. I'd do it again." "Silence!" Rage filled larlath's voice. "How dare you brag of such things?" She reached down and yanked up her shirt. Mark's eyes widened as she dropped it to the ground. She was standing in front of all of them in just her bra and jeans. She didn't care. She didn't feel naked--she felt clothed in rage and fury, like a warrior from one of Arthur's tales. "Whip me," she said. "Agree to it and this will end here. Otherwise I swear I will hunt you through the lands of Faerie unto eternity. Mark can't, but I can." larlath said something exasperated in a language Emma didn't know, turning to look at the ocean. Kieran moved forward as he did so, toward Julian's crumpled form. "Don't you touch him!" Mark yelled, but Kieran didn't look at him, just slid his hands under Julian's arms and drew him away from the tree. He laid him down a few feet away, removing his own long tunic to wrap it around Jules's unconscious, bleeding body. Emma expelled a breath of relief. The sun felt hot on her naked back. "Do it," she said. "Unless you are too cowardly to whip a girl." "Emma, stop," said Mark. His voice was full of a terrible ache. "Let it be me." larlath's eyes had brightened with a cruel light. "Very well, Carstairs," he said. "Do as your parabatai did. Ready yourself for the whip." Emma saw Gwyn's expression turn to one of sadness as she moved toward the tree. The bark, up close, was smooth and dark red-brown. It felt cool to the touch as she slid her arms around it. She could see the individual cracks in the bark. She gripped the wood with her hands. She heard Mark call her name again, but it seemed to be coming from very far away, larlath moved to stand behind her. The whip whistled as he raised it. She closed her eyes. In the darkness behind her eyelids, she saw Julian, and fire around him. Fire in the chambers of the Silent City. She heard his voice whisper the words, those old words from the Bible, taken and remade by Shadowhunters to form the parabatai oaVa. Whither thou goest, I will go -- The whip came down. If she had thought she felt pain before, it was agony now. Her back felt as if it were being opened up by fire. She ground her teeth together to silence her scream. Entreat me not to leave thee -- Again. The pain was worse this time. Her fingers bit into the wood of the tree. Or to return from following after thee -- Again. She slid to her knees. The Angel do so to me, and more also, If aught but death part thee and me. Again. The pain rose up like a wave, blotting out the sun. She screamed, but she couldn't hear herself--her ears were stoppered, the world crumpling, folding in on itself. The whip came down a fifth time, a sixth, a seventh, but now she barely felt it as the darkness swallowed her. <|title|>Chapter 23: To Love and Be Loved <|startofchapter|>Cristina came out of Emma's bedroom looking somber. Mark caught a glimpse of the room before the door closed behind her: He saw Emma's still form, looking small beneath a pile of heavy covers, and Julian sitting on the bed beside her. His brother's head was bent, his dark hair falling to cover his face. Mark had never seen him so miserable. "Is she all right?" he asked Cristina. They were alone in the corridor. Most of the kids were still asleep. Mark didn't want to remember his brother's face when Julian had woken up near the quickbeam and seen Mark kneeling over Emma's body, her stele in his hand, drawing healing runes on her lacerated skin with the shaking, unpracticed hand of someone long unused to the language of angels. He didn't want to remember the way Julian had looked when they'd come inside, Mark carrying Cortana and Julian with Emma in his arms, her blood all over his shirt, her hair matted with it. He didn't want to remember the way Emma had screamed when the whip came down, and the way she'd stopped screaming when she collapsed. He didn't want to remember Kieran's face as Mark and Julian had raced back toward the Institute. Kieran had tried to stop Mark, had put his hand on his arm. His face had been bleached and pleading, his hair a riot of black and despairing blue. Mark had shaken off his grip. "Touch me again with your hand and you will see it parted from your wrist forever," he had snarled, and Gwyn had pulled Kieran away from him, speaking to him in a voice that was equal parts sternness and regret. "Let him be, Kieran," he said. "Enough has been done here this day." They'd carried Emma into her bedroom, and Julian had helped lay her down on the bed while Mark had gone to get Cristina. Cristina hadn't screamed when he'd awoken her, or even when she'd seen Emma in her torn and blood-soaked clothes. She had gone to work helping them: She'd put Emma into clean, dry clothes, had retrieved bandages for Jules, had washed the blood from Emma's hair. "She will be all right," Cristina said now. "She will heal." Mark didn't want to remember the way Emma's skin had opened as the whip had come down, or the sound the whip made. The smell of blood mixing with the salt of the ocean air. "Mark." Cristina touched his face. He turned his cheek into her palm, involuntarily. She smelled like coffee and bandages. He wondered if Julian had told her everything--of Kieran's suspicions of her, of Mark's inability to protect his brother or Emma. Her skin was soft against his; her eyes, upturned, were wide and dark. Mark thought of Kieran's eyes, like fragments of the glass inside a kaleidoscope, shattered and polychromatic. Cristina's were steady. Singular. She brought her hand down the side of his jaw, her expression thoughtful. Mark felt as if his whole body were tightening into a knot. "Mark?" It was Julian's voice, low, from the other side of the door. "You should go in to your brother." Cristina lowered her hand, brushing his shoulder once, reassuringly. "This is not your fault," she said. "It is not. You understand?" Mark nodded, unable to speak. "I will wake the children and tell them," she said, and set off down the hall, her stride as purposeful as if she were in gear, though she was wearing a T-shirt and pajama bottoms. Mark took a deep breath and pushed open the door to Emma's bedroom. Emma lay unmoving, her pale hair spread out over the pillow, her chest rising and falling with steady breaths. They had used sleep runes on her, as well as runes to kill pain, stop blood loss, and heal. Julian was still sitting beside her. Her hand was limp on the blanket; Julian had moved his own hand close to hers, their fingers interlocking but not touching. His head was turned away from Mark's; Mark could only see the hunched set of his shoulders, the way the vulnerable curve of the nape of his neck looked like the curve of Emma's back as the whip came down. He seemed very young. "I tried," Mark said. "I tried to take the lashes. Gwyn wouldn't allow it." "I know. I saw you try," Julian said in a flat voice. "But Emma's killed faeries. You haven't. They wouldn't have wanted to whip you, once they had the chance to whip her. It didn't matter what you did." Mark cursed himself silently. He had no idea what the human words were with which he could comfort his brother. "If she died," Julian went on in the same flat voice, "I would want to die. I know that's not healthy. But it's the truth." "She won't die," Mark said. "She's going to be fine. She just needs to recover. I have seen what men--what people--look like when they're going to die. There is a look that comes over them. This is not it." "I can't help wondering," said Julian. "This whole business. Someone's trying to bring back the person they loved, a person who died. It feels almost wrong. As if maybe we should let them." "Jules," Mark said. He could feel the jagged edges of his little brother's emotions, like the touch of a razor on skin long covered by bandages. This was what it meant to be family, he thought. To hurt when someone else hurt. To want to protect them. "They're taking lives. You can't pay for tragedy with more tragedy, or draw life from death." "I just know that if it were her, if it were Emma, I would do the same thing." Julian's eyes were haunted. "I would do whatever I had to." "You wouldn't." Mark put his hand on Julian's shoulder, pulling him around. Julian moved reluctantly to face his brother. "You would do the right thing. All your life, you've done the right thing." "I'm sorry," Julian said. "You're sorry? All of this, Jules, the convoy-- If I hadn't told Cristina about Gwyn's cloak--" "They would have found something else to punish you with," said Julian. "Kieran wanted to hurt you. You hurt him, so he wanted to hurt you. I'm sorry --sorry about Kieran, because I can see you cared about him. I'm sorry I didn't know you'd left anyone you cared about behind. I'm sorry that for years I thought you were the one who had freedom, that you were enjoying yourself in Faerie while I killed myself here trying to raise four kids and run the Institute and keep Arthur's secrets. I wanted to believe you were okay--I wanted to believe one of us was okay. So much." "You wanted to believe I was happy, just as I wanted to believe the same about you," Mark said. "I had thought about whether you were happy, thriving, living. I had never stopped to wonder what kind of man you might have grown up to be." He paused. "I am proud of you. I have had little hand in the shaping of you, but I am proud nonetheless to call you my brother-- to call all of you my brothers and sisters. And I will not leave you again." Julian's eyes widened, their color Blackthorn bright in the gloom. "You won't go back to Faerie?" "No matter what happens," Mark said, "I will stay here. I will always, always stay here." He put his arms around Julian and held him tightly. Julian exhaled, as if he were letting go of something heavy that he had carried for a long time, and leaning on Mark's shoulder, he let his older brother bear just a little of his weight. Emma dreamed about her parents. They were in the small white-painted Venice house they had lived in when she was a child. She could see the faint glimmer of the canals from the window. Her mother sat at the kitchen island, a cloth spread out in front of her. On the cloth lay an array of knives, sorted from smallest to largest. The largest was Cortana, and Emma gazed at it hungrily, drinking in the smooth goldness, the sharp glow of the blade. Compared to the brilliance of the weapon, her mother seemed a shadow. Her hair glowed, and her hands, as she worked, but the edges of her were indistinct, and Emma was terrified that if she reached for her mother she would disappear. Music rose around them. Emma's father, John, came into the kitchen, his violin tucked against his shoulder. Usually he played with a shoulder rest but not now. The violin poured forth music like water and-- The sharp crack of a whip, pain like fire. Emma gasped. Her mother lifted her head. "Is something wrong, Emma?" "I--no, nothing." She turned toward her father. "Keep playing, Dad." Her father gave his gentle smile. "You sure you don't want to try?" Emma shook her head. Whenever she touched bow to strings, it made the sound of a strangled cat. "Music is in the blood of the Carstairs," he said. "This violin once belonged to Jem Carstairs." Jem, Emma thought. Jem, who had helped her through her parabatai ceremony with gentle hands and a thoughtful smile. Jem, who had given her his cat to watch over her. Pain that went through skin like a blade. Cristina's voice saying, "Emma, oh, Emma, why did they hurt you so much?" Her mother lifted Cortana. "Emma, I'm sure you're a thousand miles away." "Maybe not quite that far." Her father lowered his bow. Emma." It was Mark's voice. Emma, come back. For Julian, please. Come back.""Trust him," said John Carstairs. "He will come to you, and he will need your help. Trust James Carstairs." "But he said he had to go. Papa." Emma had not called her father Papa since she was very small. "He said there was something he was looking for." "He is about to find it," said John Carstairs. "And then there will be yet more for you to do." "Jules, come have something to eat --" "Not now, Livvy. I need to stay with her. " "But, Papa," Emma whispered. "Papa, you're dead." John Carstairs smiled sadly. "As long as there is love and memory, there is no true death," he said. He put bow to strings and began to play again. Music rose up, swirling around the kitchen like smoke. Emma stood up from the kitchen chair. The sky was darkening outside, the setting sun reflected in the canal water. "I have to go." "Oh, Em." Her mother came around the kitchen island toward her. She was carrying Cortana. "I know." Shadows moved across the inside of her mind. Someone was holding her hand so tightly it hurt. "Emma, please, " said the voice she loved the most in the world. "Emma, come back. " Emma's mother placed the sword in her hands. "Steel and temper, daughter," she said. "And remember that a blade made by Wayland the Smith can cut anything." "Go back." Her father kissed her on the forehead. "Go back, Emma, to where you are needed." "Mama," she whispered. "Papa." She tightened her grip on the sword. The kitchen whirled away from her, folding up like an envelope. Her mother and father disappeared into it, like words written long ago. "Cortana," Emma gasped. She thrashed upward and cried out in pain. Sheets were tangled around her waist. She was in bed, in her room. The lamps were on but dimly lit, the window cracked open slightly. The table next to the bed was piled with bandages and folded towels. The room smelled of blood and burning. "Emma?" An incredulous voice. Cristina was sitting at the foot of the bed, a roll of bandages and some scissors in her hand. She dropped them to the floor as she saw that Emma's eyes were open, and flung herself onto the bed. "Oh, Emma!" She threw her arms around Emma's shoulders, and for a moment, Emma clung to her. She wondered if this was what it was like to have an older sister, someone who could be your friend and also take care of you. "Ouch," Emma said meekly. "It hurts." Cristina pulled back. Her eyes were red-rimmed. "Emma, are you all right? Do you remember everything that happened?" Emma put a hand to her head. Her throat hurt. She wondered if it was from screaming. She hoped not. She hadn't wanted to give larlath the satisfaction. "I . . . how long have I been passed out?" "Out? Oh, asleep. Since this morning. All day, really. Julian has been in here with you the whole time. I finally convinced him to eat something. He'll be horrified that you woke up and he wasn't here." Cristina pushed Emma's tangled hair back. "I should get up. ... I should see ... Is everyone all right? Did anything happen?" Her mind suddenly full of awful images of the faeries, done with her, going after Mark or Julian or somehow, even, the children, Emma tried to swing her legs over the side of the bed. "Nothing has happened." Cristina pushed her back gently. "You are tired and weak; you need food and runes. A whipping like that . . . You can whip someone to death, you know that, Emma?" "Yes," Emma whispered. "Will my back be scarred forever?" "Probably," Cristina said. "But it won't be bad--the iratzes closed the wounds quickly. They couldn't quite heal them all. There will be marks, but they will be light." Her eyes were red. "Emma, why did you do it? Why? You really think your body is so much stronger than Mark's or Julian's?" "No," Emma said. "I think everyone is strong and weak in different ways. There are things I'm terrified of that Mark isn't. Like the ocean. But he's been tortured enough--what it would have done to him, I don't even know. And Julian ... I felt it when they whipped him. In my body, in my heart. It was the worst feeling I've ever felt, Cristina. I would have done anything to stop it. It was selfish." "It was not selfish." Cristina caught Emma's hand and squeezed it. "I have thought now for a while that I would never want a parabatai," she said. "But I would feel differently, I think, if that parabatai could have been you." I wish you were my parabatai, too, Emma thought, but she couldn't say it-- it felt disloyal to Julian, despite everything. Instead she said, "I love you, Cristina," and squeezed the other girl's hand back. "But the investigation--I should go with you--" "To where? The library? Everyone has been reading and searching all day for more information about Lady Midnight. We will find something, but we have plenty of people to look at pages." "There are other things to do besides look at pages--" The door opened, and Julian was on the threshold. His eyes widened and for a moment they were all Emma could see, like blue-green doors to another world. "Emma." His voice sounded rough and cracked. He was wearing jeans and a loose white shirt and beneath it the outline of a bandage, wrapping around his chest, was visible. His eyes were red, his hair tousled, and there was a faint sprinkling of stubble along his chin and cheeks. Julian never went without shaving, ever since the first time he'd shown up with stubble and Ty had told him, without preamble, "I don't like it." "Julian," Emma said, "are you all ri--" But Julian had thrown himself across the room. Without seeming to see anything but Emma, he dropped to his knees and flung his arms around her, burying his face against her stomach. She reached down with a shaking hand and stroked his curls, raising her eyes in alarm to meet Cristina's. But Cristina was already rising to her feet, murmuring that she would tell the others that Julian was looking after Emma. Emma heard the lock click as she closed the bedroom door behind her. "Julian," Emma murmured, her hand tangling in his hair. He wasn't moving; he was entirely still. He breathed in shakily before lifting his head. "By the Angel, Emma," he said in a cracked whisper. "Why did you do it?" She winced, and he was suddenly on his feet. "You need more healing runes," he said. "Of course, I'm so stupid, of course you need them." It was true: She did hurt. Some places ached dully, others with a sharper pain. Emma breathed in as Diana had taught her--slowly, steadily--as he retrieved his stele. He dropped down on the bed beside her. "Hold still," he said, and put the instrument to her skin. She felt the pain ebb until it was a dull ache. "How long--when did you wake up?" Emma asked. He was in the act of putting his stele back on the table. "If you mean did I see them whip you, no," he said grimly. "What do you remember?" "I remember Gwyn and the others came . . . larlath . . . Kieran." She thought of blazing-hot sun, a tree with bark the color of blood. Black and silver eyes. "Kieran and Mark love each other." "They did," Julian said. "I'm not sure how Mark feels about him now." She drew in a ragged breath. "I dropped Cortana--" "Mark brought it inside," he said in a voice that indicated that Cortana was the last thing on his mind. "God, Emma, when I came back to consciousness the convoy was gone and you were on the ground, bleeding, and Mark was trying to lift you up and I thought you were dead," he said, and there was not a trace of remoteness in his voice, just a fierce wildness she had never really associated with Julian before. "They whipped you, Emma, you took the whipping meant for Mark and for me. I hate that you did that, you understand, I hate it--" Emotion crackled and burned in his voice, like a fire raging out of control. "How could you?" "Mark couldn't have stood the whipping," she said. "It would have broken him. And I couldn't have borne watching them whip you. It would have broken me." "You think I don't feel the same way?" he demanded. "You think I haven't been sitting here all day totally shattered and ripped apart? I'd rather cut my arm off than have you lose a fingernail, Emma." "It wasn't just about you," she said. "The kids-- Look, they expect me to fight, to get hurt. They think: There's Emma, scratched up again, cut up and bandaged. But you, they look to you in a way they don't look to me. If you were seriously hurt, it would scare them so badly. And I couldn't stand thinking of them so scared." Julian's fingers tightened into a hard spiral. She could see the pulse running under his skin. She thought, randomly, of some graffiti she had seen on the side of the Malibu Pier: Your heart is a weapon the size of your fist. "God, Emma," he said. "What I've done to you." "They're my family too," she said. Emotion was threatening to choke her. She bit it back. "Sometimes I wish--I've wished--that we were married and they were our kids," he said rapidly. His head was bowed. "Married?" Emma echoed, shocked. His head came up. His eyes were burning. "Why do you think that I--" "Love me less than I love you?" she said. He flinched visibly at the words. "Because you said so. I as much as told you on the beach how I felt, and you said 'not that way, Emma.' " "I didn't--" "I'm tired of lying to each other," said Emma. "Do you understand? I'm sick of it, Julian." He scrubbed his hands through his hair. "I can't see any way for this to be all right," he said. "I can't see anything but a nightmare where everything falls apart, and where I don't have you." "You don't have me now," she said. "Not in the way that matters. The truthful way." She tried to kneel up on the bed. Her back ached, and her arms and legs felt tired, as if she had run and climbed for miles. Julian's eyes darkened. "Does it still hurt?" He fumbled among the items on the nightstand, came up with a vial. "Malcolm made me this a while ago. Drink it." The vial was full of a chartreuse-gold liquid. It tasted a little like flat champagne. The moment Emma swallowed it, she felt a numbness sweep over her. The ache in her limbs receded, and a cool, flowing energy replaced it. Julian took the vial from her and dropped it onto the bed. He slid one arm under her knees, the other under her shoulders, and lifted her bodily off the bed. For a moment she clung to him in surprise. She could feel his heart beating, smell his soap and paint and cloves scent. His hair was soft against her cheek. "What are you doing?" she said. "I need you to come with me." His voice was tight, as if he were screwing his courage up to do something horrible. "I need you to see something." "You make it sound like you're a serial killer with a freezer full of arms," Emma muttered as he shouldered open the door. "The Clave would probably be happier about that." Emma wanted to rub her cheek against his, feel the roughness of his stubble. He was entirely a mess, actually, his shirt on inside out and his feet bare. She felt a rush of affection and wanting so intense that her whole body tightened. "You can put me down," she said. "I'm fine. I don't need to be princess-carried." He laughed, a short, choked laugh. "I didn't know that was a verb," he said, but he set her on her feet. Carefully and slowly, and they leaned into each other, as if neither of them could stand the fact that in a moment, they would no longer be touching. Emma's heart began to pound. It pounded as she followed Julian down the empty corridor, and it pounded as they started up the back staircase and went into his studio. It pounded as she leaned against the paint- covered island, and Julian went to take a key from a drawer by the window. She saw him breathe in, his shoulders rising. He looked the way he had when he was steeling himself to be whipped. Having gathered his courage, he went to the door of the locked room, the one that no one but him ever entered. He turned the key in the lock with a decisive click and the door sprang open. He stood aside. "Go in," he said. Years of ingrained habit and respect for Julian's privacy held Emma back. "Are you sure?" He nodded. He was pale. She drew away from the island and crossed the room with a sense of apprehension. Maybe he did have bodies in there. Whatever it was, it had to be something awful. She'd never seen him look like he did now. She stepped inside the room. For a moment she thought she'd stepped into a funhouse of mirrors. Reflections of herself stared back from every surface. The walls were covered with tacked-up sketches and paintings, and there was an easel as well, set up in one corner near the single window, with a half-finished drawing on it. Two countertops ran the length of the east and west walls, and those, too, were covered in art. Every image was of her. There she was training, holding Cortana, playing with Tavvy, reading to Dru. In one watercolor, she was sleeping on the beach, her head pillowed on her hand. The details of the slope of her shoulder, the individual grains of sand stuck to her skin like sugar, had been rendered so lovingly that she felt almost dizzy. In another, she rose above the city of Los Angeles. She was naked, but her body was transparent--one could see only the outlines of it, and the stars of the night sky shone through her. Her hair tumbled down like brilliant light, illuminating the world. She remembered what he'd said to her when they were dancing. I was thinking about painting you. Painting your hair. That I'd have to use titanium white to get the color right, the way it catches tight and almost glows. But that wouldn't work, would it? it's not all one color, your hair, it's not just gold: it's amber and tawny and caramel and wheat and honey. She reached up to touch her hair, which she'd never thought of as anything but ordinary blond, and then stared at the painting clipped to the easel. It was half-finished, an image of Emma striding out of the ocean, Cortana strapped to her hip. Her hair was down, as it was in most of the pictures, and he had made it look like the spray of the ocean at sunset, when the last rays of daylight turned the water to a brutal gold. She looked beautiful, fierce, as terrible as a goddess. She bit her lip. "You like my hair down," she said. Julian gave a short laugh. "Is that all you have to say?" She turned to look at him directly. They were standing close together. "These are beautiful," she said. "Why didn't you ever show them to me? To anyone?" He exhaled, gave her a slow, sad smile. "Ems, no one could look at these and not know how I feel about you." She put her hand on the counter. It suddenly seemed important to have something to keep her steady on her feet. "How long have you been drawing me?" He sighed. A moment later his hand came to rest in her hair. His fingers twined in the strands. "My whole life." "I remember you used to, but then you stopped." "I never stopped. I just learned to hide it." His smile vanished. "My last secret." "I very much doubt that," Emma said. "I have lied and lied and lied." Julian spoke slowly. "I've made myself an expert at lying. I stopped thinking lies could be destructive. Even evil. Until I stood on that beach and told you I didn't feel that way about you." She was gripping the counter so hard her hand ached. "Feel what way?" "You know," he said, drawing away from her. Suddenly, she thought she'd done too much, pushed him too far, but the desperation to know inside her overrode that. "I need to hear it. Spell it out for me, Julian." He went toward the door. Took hold of the knob--for a moment she thought he was going to leave the room--and he swung the door of the small room closed. Locked it, closing them inside. Turned to her. His eyes were luminous in the dim light. "I tried to stop," he said. "That's why I went to England. I thought if I was away from you, maybe I'd stop feeling what I was feeling. But as soon as I got back, the first second that I saw you, I knew it hadn't made any difference." He looked around the room, his expression almost resigned. "Why all these paintings of you? Because I'm an artist, Emma. These pictures are my heart. And if my heart was a canvas, every square inch of it would be painted over with you." Her gaze locked with his. "You mean it," she said. "You really mean it." "I know I lied to you on the beach. But I swear on our parabatai oaths. I'm telling you the truth now." He spoke clearly, deliberately, as if he couldn't bear a single word he was telling her to be misunderstood or lost. "I love everything about you, Emma. I love the way I can recognize your footsteps in the hallway outside my room even when I didn't know you were coming. No one else walks or breathes or moves like you do. I love the way you gasp when you're asleep, like your dreams have surprised you. I love the way when we stand together on the beach our shadows blend into one person. I love the way you can write on my skin with your fingers and I can understand it better than I could understand someone else shouting in my ear. I didn't want to love you like this. It's the worst idea in the world that I love you like this. But I can't stop. Believe me, I've tried." It was the pain in his voice that convinced her. It was the same pain that had beaten in her own heart for so long that she'd stopped knowing it for what it was. She let go of the counter. She took a step toward Julian, and then another one. "Are you-- Are you in love with me?" His smile was soft and sad. "So much." A moment later she was in his arms and kissing him. She couldn't have said how it happened exactly, just that it seemed inevitable. And that for all that Julian's voice had been quiet when he'd spoken, his mouth on hers was eager and his body was wanting and desperate. He clutched her to him, his lips tracing the outline of her mouth. Her hands were fierce in his hair--she'd always loved his hair, and now that she could touch it freely, she buried her hands in the thick waves, winding them around her fingers. His hands slid to the backs of her thighs and he lifted her up as if she weighed nothing. She locked her hands around his neck, clinging on as he held her against him with one arm. She was aware of him grabbing at the papers covering the counter, knocking them to the floor along with tubes of paint, until he'd cleared a space where he could set her down. She pulled him in, keeping her legs wrapped around his waist. There was nothing closed about him now, nothing diffident or remote or reticent as their kisses grew deeper, wilder, hotter. "Tell me I didn't screw this up forever," Julian gasped between kisses. "I was such an ass on the beach--and when I saw you with Mark in your room --" Emma slid her hands down to his shoulders, broad and strong under her grip. She felt drunk on kissing. This was what people fought wars over, she thought, and killed each other over, and destroyed their lives for: this nerve- shredding mixture of longing and pleasure. "Nothing was happening--" His hands stroked her hair. "I know it's ridiculous. But when you had a crush on Mark, when you were twelve, it was the first time I remember ever being jealous. It doesn't make any sense, I know that, but the things we're most frightened of, we can't make ourselves dismiss them. If you and Mark ever... I don't think I could come back from that." Something about the raw honesty in his voice touched her. "Everyone has things they're afraid of," she whispered, moving closer into his arms. She slid her fingers under the hem of his shirt. "It's part of being human." His eyes slipped half-closed. His fingers raked down through her hair; his hands caressed her back lightly, then found her waist, pulling her harder into him. Her head fell back, almost banging into one of the cabinets; his lips burned on her collarbone. His skin was hot under her touch. She could understand suddenly why people talked about passion as fire: She felt as if they had caught aflame and were burning like the dry Malibu hills, about to become ashes that would mix together forever. "Tell me you love me, Emma," he said against her throat. "Even if you don't mean it." She gasped; how could he think, how could he not realize--? There was the sound of footsteps in the studio. "Julian?" Livvy's voice echoed through the door. "Hey, Jules, where are you?" Emma and Julian ripped themselves away from each other in a panic. They were both disheveled, their hair mussed, their lips kiss-swollen. Nor could Emma imagine how they'd explain why they'd locked themselves into Julian's private room. "Juuules!" Livvy was yelling now, good-naturedly. "We're in the library and Ty sent me to get you. . . ." Livvy paused, most likely looking around the room. "Seriously, Julian, where are you?" The knob of the door turned. Julian stood frozen. The knob jiggled again, the door rattling against its lock. Emma tensed. There was the sound of a sigh. The knob stopped jiggling. Footsteps moved away from them, and then the studio door banged closed. Emma looked at Julian. She felt as if her blood had frozen and then unthawed suddenly; it was pounding through her veins like a spring torrent. "It's okay," she breathed. Julian caught her and hugged her fiercely, his bitten-nailed hands digging into her shoulders. He gripped her so tightly she could barely breathe. Then he let go. He did it as if he was forcing himself, as if he were starving and he was putting aside the last piece of food he had. But he did it. "We'd better go," he said. Back in her bedroom, Emma showered and changed as quickly as she could. She slid on jeans and couldn't help a wince as her T-shirt came down over her head, scraping against the bandages on her back. She was going to need new ones soon, and probably another iratze. She headed out, only to discover that the hallway was already occupied. "Emma," Mark said, unhitching himself from the wall. His voice sounded tired. "Julian said you were all right. I--I'm so sorry." "It's not your fault, Mark," she said. "It is," he said. "I trusted Kieran." "You trusted him because you loved him." He glanced at her, surprised. He looked off-kilter, and not just because of his eyes: It was as if someone had reached inside him and shaken the roots of his beliefs. She could still hear him screaming as larlath whipped first Julian and then her. "It was that clear?" "You looked at him like--" Like I look at Julian. "Like you look at someone you love," she said. "I'm sorry I didn't realize it before. I thought you . . ." Liked Cristina, maybe? Kieran sure seemed jealous of her. "Liked girls," she finished. "Teach me to make assumptions." "I do," he said quizzically. "Like girls." "Oh," she said. "You're bisexual?" "Last time I checked, that's what you call it," he said with a brief look of amusement. "There are no real words for these things in Faerie, so . . ." She winced. "Double sorry on the assumptions." "It's all right," he said. "You are correct about Kieran. He was all I had for a long time." "If it makes any difference, he does love you," said Emma. "I could see it on his face. I don't think he expected any of us to be hurt. I think he thought they'd bring you back to Faerie, where you could be with him. He would never have thought--" But at that, at the memory of the whip coming down not just on her back but on Julian's, her throat closed. "Emma," Mark said. "The day that I was taken by the Hunt--the last thing I said to Julian was that he should stay with you. I thought of you, even when I was gone, as this delicate girl, this little thing with blond braids. I knew if anything happened to you, even then, Julian would be heartbroken." Emma felt her own heart skip a beat, but if Mark meant anything out of the ordinary by "heartbroken," it wasn't evident. "Today, you protected him," Mark said. "You took the whipping that was meant for him. It was not easy to watch what they did to you. I wish it had been me. I wish it a thousand times. But I know why my brother wanted to protect me. And I am grateful to you for protecting him in turn." Emma breathed past the tightness in her throat. "I had to do it." "I will always owe you," Mark said, and his voice was the voice of a prince of Faerie, whose promises were more than promises. "Anything you want, I will give it to you." "That's quite a promise. You don't have to--" "I want to," he said with finality. After a moment Emma nodded, and the strangeness was broken. Mark the faerie lapsed back into being Mark Blackthorn, filling her in on the progress of the investigation as they headed down to join the others. In order to keep Uncle Arthur from finding out about what had happened with Emma and the faerie convoy, Julian had arranged for Arthur to attend a meeting with Anselm Nightshade at the pizza place on Cross Creek Road. Nightshade had sent a car for Arthur earlier, promising they both would return when night fell. The rest of the family had been in the library. They had torn through piles of books in search of information about Lady Midnight. "Did they learn anything?" she asked. "I'm not sure. I was just on my way to the library when Mr. Hot and Sexy showed up and said he had information." "Whoa." Emma held up her hand. "Mr. Hot and Sexy?" "Perfect Diego," Mark grumbled. "Okay, look, I know you haven't been back from Faerie all that long, but here in the human world, Mr. Hot and Sexy is not an effective insult." Mark didn't get a chance to reply; they had reached the library. The moment they went inside, Emma was nearly knocked off her feet by a rushing figure with a determined hug--it was Livvy, who promptly burst into tears. "Ouuuch," Emma said, glancing around. The whole room was covered in stacks of paper, piles of books. "Liv, mind the bandages." "I can't believe you let those faeries whip you, oh, I hate them, I hate the Courts, I'll kill all of them--" "'Let' is maybe not the word," Emma said. "Anyway, I'm all right. It was fine. It didn't even hurt that much." "Ooh, you liar!" said Cristina, emerging from behind a stack of books with Diego beside her. Interesting, Emma thought. "It was very heroic, what you did, but also very stupid." Diego looked at Emma with serious brown eyes. "If I had known what was to happen, I would have stayed and volunteered to be whipped myself. I am more muscular and larger than you, and I probably could have taken it better." "I took it fine," said Emma, annoyed. "But thanks for the reminder that you're an enormous hulk. I might have forgotten otherwise." "Argh! Stop it!" Cristina dissolved into a torrent of Spanish. Emma held her hands up. "Cristina, slow down." "Would it help?" said Diego. "Do you speak Spanish?" "Not much," Emma said. He gave a small smile. "Ah, well, in that case, she's complimenting us." "I know those weren't compliments," Emma said, but then the door opened and it was Julian, and suddenly everyone was deputized to help carry books and line them up on the table and sort papers. Ty was sitting at the head of the table as if he were leading a board meeting. He didn't smile at Emma exactly, but gave her a sideways glance that Emma knew meant affection, and then looked back down at what he was doing. Emma didn't look at Julian, no more than a glance, at least. She didn't think she could. She was aware of his presence as she crossed the room to the long table, though. He came and stood at Ty's left, looking down at his notes. "Where are Tavvy and Dru?" she asked, lifting the top volume from a stack of books. "Tavvy was getting stir-crazy. Dru took him down to the beach," said Livvy. "Ty thinks he might have figured something out." "Who she was," Ty said. "Our Lady Midnight. Tavvy's book reminded me of a story I read in one of the Blackthorn history books--" "But we've looked through all the Blackthorn history books," Julian said. Ty gave him a superior look. "We looked at everything going back a hundred years," he said. "But Tavvy's book said Lady Midnight was in love with someone she was forbidden to love." "And so we thought, what's a forbidden love?" said Livvy eagerly. "I mean, people who are related, gross, and people who are way younger or older than each other, which is also gross, and people who are sworn enemies, which is not gross but is sort of sad ..." "People who like Star Wars and people who like Star Trek," said Emma. "Et cetera. Where are you going with this, Livs?" "Or parabatai, like Silas Pangborn and Eloisa Ravenscar," Livvy went on, and Emma was instantly sorry she'd made a joke. She felt herself become very, very aware of where Julian was standing, how close he was to her, how much he had tensed. "But that doesn't seem likely. So then we thought--it was totally forbidden to fall in love with Downworlders before the Accords. It would have been a big scandal." "So we dug into the earlier histories," said Ty. "And we found something. There was a family of Blackthorns who had a daughter who fell in love with a warlock. They were going to run off together, but her family caught them. She was sent to be an Iron Sister." " 'Her parents trapped her in an iron castle.' " Mark had caught up Tavvy's book. "That's what that means." "You speak the language of fairy tales," said Diego. "Not surprising, I suppose." "So then she died," said Emma. "What was her name?" "Annabel," said Livvy. "Annabel Blackthorn." Julian exhaled. "Where did all this happen?" "In England," said Ty. "Two hundred years ago. Before 'Annabel Lee' was ever written." "I found something as well," said Diego. From the inside pocket of his jacket, he produced a slightly wilted-looking stem with several leaves clustered on it. He laid it on the table. "Don't touch it," he said as Livvy reached out. She drew her hand back. "It's belladonna. Deadly nightshade. Only fatal if ingested or absorbed in the bloodstream, but still." "From the convergence site?" said Mark. "I noticed it there." "Yes," said Diego. "It is much deadlier than your average belladonna. I suspect it was what was smeared on the arrows that I bought at the Shadow Market." He frowned. "The odd thing is that it normally only grows in Cornwall." "The girl who fell in love with the warlock," Ty said. "That was in Cornwall." Everything in the room suddenly seemed very clear and bright and harsh, like a photograph brought into sudden focus. "Diego," Emma said. "Who did you buy the arrows from? In the Market?" Diego frowned. "A human with the Sight. I think his name was Rook--" "Johnny Rook," said Julian. His eyes, meeting Emma's, were dark with a sudden realization. "You think--" She held out her hand. "Give me your phone." She was aware of the others looking at her curiously as she took the phone from Julian and strode across the room, dialing as she went. The line rang several times before it picked up. "Hello?" "Rook," she said. "It's Emma Carstairs." "I told you not to call me." His voice was cold. "After what your friend did to my son--" "If you don't talk to me now, the next visit you get will be from the Silent Brothers," she snapped. There was rage in her voice, though little of it was actually about him. Anger was rising in her like a tide; anger, and the sense of betrayal. "Look, I know you sold my friend some arrows. They were poisoned. With a poison only the Guardian of the Followers would have access to." She was gambling now, but she could tell by the silence on the other end of the phone that her shot in the dark wasn't going wide. "You said you didn't know who he was. You lied." "I didn't lie," Rook said after a pause. "I don't know who he is." "Then how do you know it's a he?" "Look, he always showed up in a robe and gloves and a hood, okay? Completely covered. He asked me to distill those leaves, make a compound he could use. I did it." "So you could poison the arrows?" She could hear the smirk in Rook's voice. "I had a little left over and thought I'd amuse myself. Centurions aren't too popular around the Shadow Market, and belladonna's illegal." Emma wanted to scream at him, wanted to scream that one of the arrows he'd poisoned for fun had nearly killed Julian. She held herself back. "What else did you do for the Guardian?" "I don't need to tell you anything, Carstairs. You don't have any proof I know the Guardian that well--" "Really? Then how did you know that body was going to be dumped at the Sepulchre?" Rook was silent. "Do you know what the prisons in the Silent City are like? Do you really want to experience them firsthand?" "No--" "Then tell me what else you did for him. The Guardian. Did you use necromancy?" "No! Nothing like that." Now Rook sounded a little panicked. "I did things for the Followers. Made luck charms for them, made sure they'd have some windfalls, access to parties, premieres, have people fall in love with them. Get their deals made. No big things. Just enough to keep them happy and believing that it was worth it to stay. Believing the Guardian was taking care of them and they were going to get everything they wanted." "And what did he do for you in return?" "Money," Rook said flatly. "Protection. He warded my house against demons. He has some magical power, that guy." "You worked for a guy who sacrificed people," Emma pointed out. "It was a cult." Rook was practically snarling. "Those have always existed-- they always will. People want money and power and they'll do anything to get them. That's not my fault." "Yeah, people sure will do anything for money. You're proof of that." Emma tried to rein in her temper, but her heart was pounding. "Tell me anything else about this guy. You must have noticed his voice--they way he walked--anything weird about him--" "Everything's weird about a guy who shows up completely wrapped in fabric. I couldn't even see his shoes, okay? He didn't sound like he was all there. He's the one who told me to tell you about the Selpulchre. He babbled a lot of nonsense, once he said he came to L.A. to bring back love--" Emma hung up. She looked at the others with her heart slamming against her chest. "It's Malcolm," she said, her voice sounding distant and tinny in her ears. "Malcolm's the Guardian." They looked at her with silent, stunned expressions. "Malcolm's our friend," said Ty. "That doesn't-- He wouldn't do that." "Ty's right," said Livvy. "Just because Annabel Blackthorn was in love with a warlock--" "She was in love with a warlock," Emma repeated. "In Cornwall. Magnus said Malcolm used to live in Cornwall. A plant from Cornwall is growing around the convergence. Malcolm's been helping us with the investigation, but he hasn't, really. He never translated a word of what we gave him. He told us this was a summoning spell--it's not, it's a necromantic spell." She started to pace up and down. "He has that ring with the red stone, and the earrings I found at the convergence site were rubies--okay, it's not exactly conclusive, but he'd have to have clothes for her, right? For Annabel? She couldn't go around in grave clothes when he brought her back. It makes more sense for the necromancer to keep clothes there for the person they were raising from the dead than it does for them to keep clothes for themselves." She whirled to find the others staring at her. "Malcolm only moved to L.A. about five months before the attack on the Institute. He says he was away when it happened, but what if he wasn't? He was High Warlock. He could have easily found out where my parents were that day. He could have killed them." She looked over at the others. Their expressions ran the gamut between shock and disbelief. "I just don't think Malcolm would do that," Livvy said in a small voice. "Rook told me that the Guardian he met with concealed his identity," Emma said. "But he also said the Guardian told him that he'd come to L.A. to bring back love. Remember what Malcolm said while we were watching movies? 'I came here to bring true love back from the dead.'" She gripped the phone so tightly it hurt. "What if he really meant it? Literally? He came here to bring his true love back from the dead. Annabel." There was a long silence. It was Cristina, to Emma's surprise, who finally broke it. "I do not know Malcolm well, or love him as you do," she said in her soft voice. "So forgive me if what I say hurts. But I think Emma is right. One of these things could be a coincidence. But not all of them. Annabel Blackthorn fell in love with a warlock in Cornwall. Malcolm was a warlock in Cornwall. That itself is enough to raise suspicion high enough that it should be investigated." She looked around with earnest dark eyes. "I'm sorry. It is just that the next step for the Guardian is Blackthorn blood. And therefore we cannot wait." "Don't be sorry, Cristina. You're right," Julian said. He looked at Emma, and she could see the unspoken words behind his eyes: This is how Belinda knew about Arthur. "We need to find him," Diego said, his clear, practical voice cutting through the quiet. "We must move immediately--" The library door burst open and Dru came rushing in. Her face was pink and her wavy brown hair had come out of its braids. She nearly collided directly with Diego, but jumped back with a squeak. "Dru?" It was Mark who spoke. "Is everything all right?" She nodded, bounding across the room toward Julian. "What did you need me for?" Julian looked puzzled. "What do you mean?" "I was down on the beach with Tavvy," she said, leaning against the edge of the table to catch her breath. "Then he came and said you had to talk to me. So I came running back--" "What?" Julian echoed. "I didn't send anyone down to the beach for you, Dru." "But he said . . ." Dru looked suddenly alarmed. "He said you needed to see me right away." Julian rose to his feet. "Where's Tavvy?" Her lip began to wobble. "But he said ... He said if I ran back, he'd walk Tavvy home. He gave him a toy. He's watched Tavvy before, I don't understand, what's wrong--?" "Dru," Julian said in a carefully controlled voice. "Who is 'he'? Who has Tavvy?" Dru swallowed, her round face stricken with fright. "Malcolm," she said. "Malcolm has him." <|title|>Chapter 24: By the Name of Annabel Lee <|startofchapter|>"I don't understand," Dru said again. "What's happening?" Livvy pulled Dru against her and put her arms around her younger sister. They were about the same height--you'd never have been able to tell Livvy was the elder unless you knew them--but Dru clung on gratefully. Diego and Cristina stood silently. Ty, in his chair, had taken one of his hand toys from his pocket and was almost attacking it with shaking hands, tangling and untangling. His head was bent, his hair swinging into his face. Julian--Julian looked as if his world had caved in. "But why?" Dru whispered. "Why did Malcolm take Tavvy? And why are all of you so upset?" "Dru, Malcolm's the one we've been looking for." It was Emma who spoke, her voice choked. "He's the Guardian. He's the murderer. And he took Tavvy --" "For Blackthorn blood," said Julian. "The last sacrifice. Blackthorn blood to bring back a Blackthorn." Dru fell against her sister's shoulder, sobbing. Mark was shaking-- Cristina suddenly broke away from Diego and came over to him. She took his hand and held it. Emma gripped the edge of the table. She could no longer feel the pain in her back. She could no longer feel anything. All she could see was Tavvy, little Tavvy, the smallest Blackthorn. Tavvy having nightmares, Tavvy in her arms as she carried him through the war- torn Institute five years ago. Tavvy covered in paint in Jules's studio. Tavvy, who alone among them had skin that could not hold a single protection rune. Tavvy, who would not understand what was happening to him or why. "Wait," Dm said. "Malcolm gave me a note. He said to give it to you, Jules." She drew away from Livvy and fumbled in her pocket, retrieving some folded paper. "He said not to read it, that it was private." Livvy, who had gone to stand near Ty, made a disgusted noise. Julian's face was stark white, his eyes blazing. "Private? He wants his privacy respected?" He snatched the paper from Dru's hand and almost ripped it open. Emma caught a glimpse of large block letters printed on the paper. Julian's expression turned to one of confusion. "What does it say, Jules?" asked Mark. Julian read the words aloud. "I WILL RAISE YOU, ANNABEL LEE."The room exploded. A bolt of black light burst from the letter in Julian's hand. It shot toward the roof, smashing through the skylight with the force of a wrecking ball. Emma covered her head as plaster and bits of glass rained down. Ty, who was directly beneath the hole in the roof, threw himself toward his sister, knocking her to the ground and covering her with his own body. The room seemed to rock back and forth; a shelf wobbled and fell, tipping toward Diego. Pulling away from Mark, Cristina shoved the shelf out of the way; it crashed to the side, missing Diego by inches. Dru shrieked, and Julian pulled her toward him, tucking her under his arm. The black light was still shining upward. With his free hand, Julian flung the note onto the ground and slammed his foot down on it. It crumbled into dust instantly. The black light vanished as if it had been switched off. There was a silence. Livvy wriggled out from under her twin and stood up, reaching out to help him up after her. Livvy looked half-surprised, half-worried. "Ty, you didn't have to do that." "You wanted to have someone to shield you from danger. That's what you said." I know," Livvy said. "But--" Ty rose to his feet--and cried out. A jagged piece of glass was sticking out of the back of his calf. Blood had already started to soak the fabric around the cut. Ty bent down and, before anyone else could move, yanked the glass out of his leg. He dropped it to the ground, where it shattered into clear, red-smeared pieces. "Ty!" Julian started forward, but Ty shook his head. He was pulling himself into a chair, his face twisted with pain. Blood had started to pool around his sneakered foot. "Let Livvy do it," he said. "It would be better--" Livvy was already swooping down on her twin with an iratze. A bit of falling glass had cut her left cheek, and blood was visible against her pale skin. She wiped it away with her sleeve as she finished the healing rune. "Let me see the cut," Julian said, kneeling down. Slowly, Livvy rolled up Ty's pant leg. The cut went across the side of his calf, raw and red but no longer open--it looked like a tear that had been sewn up. Still, his leg from the cut down was smeared with blood. "Another iratze should fix it," said Diego. "And a blood-replacement rune." Julian gritted his teeth. He had never seemed bothered by Diego the way Mark was, but Emma could tell that at the moment he was barely holding himself back. "Yes," he said. "We know. Thanks, Diego." Ty looked up at his brother. "I don't know what happened." He looked dazed. "I wasn't expecting it--I should have been expecting it." "Ty, no one could have expected that," Emma said. "I mean, Julian said some words, and boom, Hell's tractor beam." "Is anyone else hurt?" Julian had efficiently slit Ty's pant leg open, and Livvy, her face the color of old newspaper, was applying healing and blood-replacement runes to her twin. Julian looked around the room, and Emma could see him doing his mental inventory of his family: Mark all right, Livvy all right, Dru all right. . . . She saw the moment he reached where Tavvy should be and blanched. His jaw tightened. "Malcolm must have enchanted the paper to set off that signal as soon as it was read." "It is a signal," Mark said. The expression on his face was troubled. "I have felt this before, in the Unseelie Court, when black enchantments were brewing. That was dark magic." "We should go straight to the Clave." Julian's face was bloodless. "Secrecy doesn't matter, punishments don't matter, not when Tavvy's life is at risk. I'll take the entire blame on myself." "You will not take any blame," said Mark, "that I do not also take." Julian didn't answer that, just held out his hand. "Emma, my phone." She'd forgotten she still had it. She drew it out of her pocket slowly--and blinked. The screen was blank. "Your phone. It's dead." "That's strange," said Julian. "I just charged it this morning." "You can use mine," Cristina said, and reached into her jacket. "Here it--" She blinked. "It's dead too." Ty slid from his chair. He took a step forward and winced, but only slightly. "We'll check the computer and the landline phone." He and Livvy hurried from the library. The room was quiet now, except for the sound of settling debris. The floor was covered in broken glass and bits of shattered wood. It seemed that the black light had blown out the glass oculus at the top of the room. Drusilla gasped. "Look--there's someone at the skylight." Emma glanced up. The oculus had become a ring of jagged glass, open to the night sky. She saw the flash of a pale face within the circle. Mark darted past her and raced up the curving ramp. He threw himself at the oculus--there was a thrashing blur of movement--and he tumbled back onto the ramp, his hand gripping the collar of a lean figure with dark hair. Mark was shouting; there was broken glass around them as they struggled. They rolled together down the ramp, hitting out at each other, until they fetched up on the library floor. The dark-haired figure was a slender boy in ragged, bloody clothes; he had gone limp. Mark knelt on top of him, and as he reached for a dagger and it flashed out gold, Emma realized that the intruder was Kieran. Mark jammed his knife up against Kieran's throat. Kieran stiffened against the knife. "I should kill you right here," Mark said through his teeth. "I should cut your throat." Dru made a small sound. To Emma's surprise, it was Diego who reached out and laid a comforting hand on her shoulder. A small flicker of liking for him went through her. Kieran bared his teeth--and then his throat, tipping his head back. "Go ahead," he said. "Kill me." "Why are you here?" Mark's breath hitched. Julian took a step toward them, his hand at his hip, on the hilt of a throwing knife. Emma knew he could take Kieran out at this distance. And he would, if Mark seemed in danger. Mark was gripping his knife; his hand was steady, but his face was anguished. "Why are you here?" he said again. "Why would you come to this place where you know that you're hated? Why do you want to make me kill you?" "Mark," Kieran said. He reached up, clenched his hand in Mark's sleeve. His face was full of yearning; the hair that fell over his forehead was streaked with dark blue. "Mark, please" Mark shook his arm out of Kieran's grip. "I could forgive you if it was me you whipped," he said. "But you touched the ones I love; that I cannot forgive. You should bleed as Emma bled." "Don't--Mark--" Emma was alarmed, not for Kieran--some part of her would have liked to see him bleed--but for Mark. For what hurting, even killing, Kieran would do to him. "I came to help you," Kieran said. Mark gave a hollow laugh. "Your help is not wanted here." "I know about Malcolm Fade," Kieran gasped. "I know he took your brother." Julian made a guttural noise. Mark's hand, on the knife, went bloodless. "Let him go, Mark," Julian said. "If he knows anything about Tavvy--we have to find out what it is. Let him go." Mark hesitated. "Mark," Cristina said softly, and with a violent gesture, Mark flung himself off Kieran and stood up, backing away until he was nearly beside Julian. Julian, whose grip on his own knife looked agonizingly tight. Slowly, painfully, Kieran rose to his feet and faced the room. He was a far cry from the arrogant gentry warrior Emma had first seen in the Sanctuary. His shirt and loose trousers were bloodstained and torn, his face bruised. He did not cower or look frightened, but that seemed less an act of bravery than almost one of hopelessness: Everything about him, from the way he was dressed to the way he stood to the way he looked at Mark, said that here was someone who did not care what became of him. The door of the library burst open and Ty and Livvy spilled in. "Everything's knocked out," Livvy exclaimed. "All the phones, the computer, even the radios--" She broke off, staring, as she took in the scene in front of her: Kieran facing the other occupants of the room. Kieran gave a tiny bow. "I am Kieran of the Wild Hunt." "One of the faerie convoy?" Livvy looked from Mark to Julian. "One of the ones who whipped Emma?" Julian nodded. Ty looked at Mark, and then the others. His face was pale and cold. "Why is he still alive?" "He knows about Tavvy," said Drusilla. "Julian, make him tell us--" Julian flung his dagger. It flew past Kieran's head, close enough to graze his hair, and embedded itself in the frame of the window behind him. "You will tell us now," he said in a deadly quiet voice, "everything you know about where Octavian is, what's going on, and how we can get him back. Or I will spill your blood on the floor of this library. I've spilled faerie blood before. Don't think I won't do it again." Kieran didn't drop his eyes. "There is no need to threaten me," he said, "though if it pleases you, do it; it makes no difference to me. I came to tell you what you want to know. That is why I am here. The black light you just saw was faerie magic. It was meant to knock out all communication, so that you could not call for help from the Clave or Conclave. So that you could not seek help or save your brother." "We could try to find a pay phone," Livvy said uncertainly, "or a restaurant phone, down on the highway--" "You will discover that phone lines have been knocked out for several miles," said Kieran. There was urgency in his voice. "I beg you not to waste time. Fade has taken your brother, already, to the ley line convergence. It is the place where he performs his sacrifices. The place he plans to kill him. If you wish to rescue the boy, you must take up your weapons and go after him now." Julian threw open the door of the weapons room. "Everyone, arm yourselves. If you're not in gear, get in gear. Diego, Cristina, there's gear hanging on the east wall. Take it, it'll be faster than going back to your rooms. Use any weapons you want. Kieran, you stay right there." He pointed toward the table in the middle of the room. "Where I can see you. Don't move or the next blade I throw at you won't miss." Kieran gave him a look. A little of his visible despair seemed to have ebbed, and there was arrogance in his quick glance. "I believe it," he said, and moved toward the table as everyone scurried around arming themselves and buckling gear on over their clothes. Not patrol gear, which was lighter, but the heavy dark gear you wore when you thought you were going to fight. When you knew you were going to fight. There had been some discussion of whether all of them were going to go to the convergence, or whether Dru at least should stay back at the Institute. Dru had protested vociferously, and Julian hadn't fought it--the Institute didn't feel safe at the moment, with the oculus smashed open. Kieran had gotten in, and who knew what else could? He wanted his family where he could see them. And there wasn't much he could say to Dru about her age: He and Emma had fought and killed during the Dark War, and they'd been younger than she was now. He had taken Ty aside, separately, and told him that if he wanted to stay behind from the fight because he was wounded, there was nothing shameful about that. He could lock himself in the car while they went into the convergence. "Do you think I have nothing to contribute to a fight?" Ty had asked. "No," Julian had said, and meant it. "But you're hurt, and I--" "It's a fight. We might all get hurt." Ty had looked directly into Julian's eyes. He could tell that Ty was doing it for him, because he remembered that Julian had told him that people often looked directly into each other's eyes to show that they were telling the truth. "I want to go. I want to be there to help Tavvy, and I want you to let me. It's what I want, and that should matter." Ty was in the weapons room with them now. It was a cavernous space with no windows. Every spare inch of the walls was hung with swords, axes, and maces. Gear, belts, and boots were stacked in piles. There was a ceramic tile bowl full of steles, and a table covered with a long cloth held seraph blades. Julian could sense them all around him, his friends and family. He knew Mark was at his side, toeing off his shoes and kicking his feet into boots. He knew Emma was at the counter, lining up seraph blades that had already been named and prepared, sliding some into her belt and distributing the rest. His awareness of her swung as she moved around the room like the needle on a compass. Above all, though, he was aware of Tavvy, out there somewhere, needing him. There was a cold terror in him that threatened to pull the determination out of his bones and sap his concentration. Pushing it away to focus on what was happening here and now was one of the hardest things he'd ever done. He bitterly wished that things were different, that they had the cooperation of the Clave, that they could have gotten to Magnus and asked for a Portal. But it was no use wishing. "Talk," he snapped at Kieran, pulling down a weapons belt from a shelf. "That black light, you said it was 'faerie magic.' Did you mean dark magic?" Now that Mark was no longer looking directly at him, Kieran seemed bored and annoyed. He leaned against the central table, taking care not to come in contact with any of the weapons--not, his expression made clear, because they were sharp or frightening but because they were Nephilim weapons and therefore repellent. "The question is whether it will show up on the Clave's map," said Ty, buckling on protective gauntlets. He was already in his gear, and the slight outline of the bandage on his calf was barely visible under the thick fabric. "The one Magnus uses to track dark magic use. Or is that blocked like the cell phones?" "It was Unseelie magic, but not dark in nature," said Kieran. "It will not show itself on the map. They were very sure of that." Julian frowned. "Who is they? In fact, how do you know so much about Malcolm?" "Because of larlath," said Kieran. Mark turned to stare, "larlath? What has he to do with this?" "I thought you knew that at least," Kieran muttered, "larlath and Malcolm have been in this together since the attack on the Institute five years ago." "They're allies?" Mark demanded. "How long have you known?" "Only a short time," said Kieran. "I became suspicious when larlath so strongly refused to allow you to come back to Faerie. He wished you to stay here, so much so that he staged that charade of punishment with the whipping so that you would not return with us. After that I realized there was more to the plan of having you here at the Institute than finding the murderer who had taken faerie lives. It was about preventing anyone in your family from being able to go to the Clave until it was too late." Emma had a seraph blade in each hand and Cortana on her back; she had paused, her face stiff with shock, "larlath said something to me when he was --when he was whipping me," she said. "That Shadowhunters don't know who to trust. He meant Malcolm, didn't he?" "Most likely," said Kieran. "Malcolm's is the shadow hand that has guided the Followers, and Malcolm killed your parents five years ago." "Why?" Emma was rigid. Julian wanted to go to her so badly it hurt. "Why did he kill my parents?" "As I understand it?" Kieran said, and there was a tinge of pity to his voice. "It was an experiment. To see if the spell worked." Emma stood speechless. Julian asked it for her, the question she couldn't voice. "What do you mean, an experiment?" "Years ago, larlath was one of the Fair Folk who allied themselves with Sebastian Morgenstern," said Kieran. "He was also a friend to Malcolm. As you probably know, there are certain books warlocks are forbidden to own, but which can be found in some Shadowhunter libraries. Necromantic tomes and the like. One of those is the Black Volume of the Dead." "The one that the poem talked about," said Dru. Though her face was still tearstained, she had put on her gear and was braiding her hair carefully back from her face. It hurt Julian's heart, to see her like that. '"Find the black book at any cost.'" "There are many black books," said Kieran. "But this was one Malcolm specifically wanted. Once the Institute was cleared of Shadowhunters and Sebastian departed, Malcolm took the opportunity to slip in and steal the book from the library. After all, when else was the Institute going to be unguarded, the door open? He took it, and he found the spell he wanted, and he saw that it required the sacrifice of Shadowhunter life. That was when your parents returned to the Institute, Emma." "So he killed them," Emma said. "For a spell." She gave a short, bitter laugh. "Did it at least work?" "It didn't," said Kieran. "It failed, and so he left their bodies in the ocean, knowing that the murders would be taken to be Sebastian's work." "larlath told you all this?" There was suspicion on Mark's face. "I followed larlath to the Unseelie Court and listened to what he said there." Kieran tried to meet Mark's gaze. Mark looked away. "The rest is what I demanded he tell me at knifepoint. Malcolm was to misdirect and confuse you so that you would not realize what he was doing--he used Johnny Rook for some of that. He wanted you to engage yourself in an investigation that would prove fruitless. Mark's presence here would deter you from asking the Clave or the Silent Brothers to help you, thus protecting Malcolm's work with the Followers, his attempts to raise his old love from the dead. When Malcolm had done what he needed to do, he would take a Blackthorn, for the death of a Blackthorn would be the last key to the enchantment." "But larlath hasn't got the power to authorize a faerie convoy to do something on this scale," said Mark. "He's just a courtier, not someone who can order Gwyn around. Who gave the permission for this to happen?" Kieran shook his dark head. "I don't know, larlath did not say. It could have been the King, my father, or it could have been Gwyn--" "Gwyn would not do that," said Mark. "Gwyn has honor, and he is not cruel." "What about Malcolm?" Livvy demanded. "I thought he had honor. I thought he was our friend! He loves Tavvy--he's played with him for hours, brought him toys. He couldn't kill him. He couldn't." "He's responsible for the killing of a dozen people, Livvy," said Julian. "Maybe more." "People are more than one thing," said Mark, and his eyes brushed over Kieran as he spoke. "Warlocks too." Emma stood with her hands still on the seraph blades. Julian could feel what she felt, as he always had, as if his own heart mirrored hers-- the hot curl of anger rising over a choking sense of despair and loss. More than anything he wanted to reach out to her, but he didn't trust himself to do it in front of everyone else. They'd be able to see right through him the moment he touched her, see his real feelings. And there was no way he could risk that now, not when his heart was being eaten alive with fear over his little brother, fear he couldn't show in case it demoralized the rest of his siblings. "Everyone is more than one thing," said Kieran. "We are more than single actions we undertake, whether they be good or evil." His eyes gleamed, silver and black, as he looked at Mark. Even in this room full of Shadowhunter things, the wildness of the Hunt and Faerie clung to Kieran like the scent of rain or leaves. It was the wildness that Julian sometimes sensed in Mark, that had faded since he'd come back to them, but showed itself still in brief flares like gunfire seen from a distance. For a moment they seemed to him two feral things, incongruous in their surroundings. "The poem that was written on the bodies," Cristina said. "The one that mentioned the black book. The story said it was given to Malcolm in the Unseelie Court." "So goes the faerie story as well," said Kieran. "At first Malcolm was told that his love had become an Iron Sister. Later he found out that she had been murdered by her family. Walled up alive in a tomb. The knowledge drove him to seek out the King of the Unseelie Court and ask him if there was a way to raise the dead. The King gave him that rhyme. It was instructions--it is only that it took him almost a century to learn how to follow them, and to find the black book." "That's why the library was destroyed in the attack," said Emma. "So no one would notice the book was missing, if they ever looked for it. So many books were lost." "But why did larlath tell Malcolm that the Followers could kill faeries as well as humans?" said Emma. "If he was really in league with Malcolm--" "That was something larlath wanted. He has many enemies in the Seelie Court. It was an expedient way for him to rid himself of some of them-- Malcolm had his Followers slay them, and the murders could not be traced back to larlath. For a faerie to kill another of the gentry, that is a dark crime indeed." "Where is Annabel's body?" asked Livvy. "Wouldn't she be buried in Cornwall? Wouldn't she have been walled up there--in a 'tomb by the sounding sea'?" "Convergences are places out of space and time," said Kieran. "The convergence itself is neither here nor in Cornwall nor in any real space. It is a between place, like Faerie itself." "It can probably be entered through Cornwall as well--that would be why those plants grow outside the entrance," said Mark. "And what is the connection to the poem Annabel Lee'?" asked Ty. "The name Annabel, the similarities of the stories--it seems more than coincidence." The dark-haired faerie prince only shook his head. "I only know what larlath told me, and what is part of faerie lore. I did not even know the name Annabel or the mundane poem." Mark whirled on Kieran. "Where is larlath now?" Kieran's eyes seemed to shimmer when he looked back. "We are wasting time here. We should be getting to the convergence." "He isn't wrong." Diego was completely kitted out: gear, several swords, an ax, throwing knives at his belt. He wore a black cloak over his gear, pinned at the shoulder with the pin of the Centurions--it bore the pattern of a leafless stick, and the words Primi Ordines. He made Julian feel underdressed. "We must get to the ley line convergence and stop Fade--" Julian looked around the room, at Emma and Mark, and then at Ty and Livvy, and lastly at Dru. "I know that we have known Malcolm all our lives. But he is a murderer and liar. Warlocks are immortal, but not invulnerable. When you see him, put your blade in his heart." There was a silence. Emma broke it. "He killed my parents," she said. "I'll be the one to cut out his heart." Kieran's eyebrows went up, but he said nothing. "Jules." It was Mark, having moved to stand at Julian's shoulder. His hair, that Cristina had cut, was tangled; there were shadows under his eyes. But there was strength in the hand he laid on Julian's shoulder. "Would you place a rune upon me, brother? For I fear that without them, I will be at a disadvantage in the battle." Julian's hand went automatically to his stele. Then he paused. "Are you sure?" Mark nodded. "It is time to let the nightmares go." He pulled the neck of his shirt aside and down, baring his shoulder. "Courage," he said, naming a rune. "And Agility." The others were discussing the fastest way to get to the convergence, but Julian was aware of both Emma's and Kieran's eyes on him as he put one hand on Mark's back and used the other to draw two careful runes. At the first bite of the stele, Mark tensed, but relaxed immediately, letting out his breath in a soft exhale. When Julian was done, he lowered his hands. Mark straightened up and turned to him. Though he had shed no tears, his two-colored eyes were brilliant. For a moment there was no one in the world but Julian and his brother. "Why?" Julian said. "For Tavvy," Mark said, and suddenly, in the set of his mouth, in the curve of the determined line of his jaw, Julian could see his own self. "And," Mark added, "because I am a Shadowhunter." He looked toward Kieran, who was gazing at them as if the stele had seared his own skin. Love and hate had their own secret languages, Julian thought, and Mark and Kieran were speaking in them now. "Because I am a Shadowhunter," he said again, his eyes full of a private challenge. "Because I am a Shadowhunter." Kieran pushed himself away from the table almost violently. "I have told you everything I know," he said. "There are no other secrets." "So I suppose you're leaving," Mark said. "Thank you for your aid, Kieran. If you are returning to the Hunt, tell Gwyn that I will not be coming back. Not ever, no matter what rules they decree. I swear that I--" "Don't swear it," Kieran said. "You do not know how things will change." "Enough." Mark began to turn away. "I have brought my steed with me," said Kieran. He was speaking to Mark, but everyone else was listening. "A faerie steed of the Hunt can take to the air. Roads do not slow our travel. I will ride ahead and delay what is happening at the convergence until the rest of you arrive." "I'll go with him," Mark said sharply. Everyone looked at him in surprise. "Urn," said Emma. "You can't knife him on the way, Mark. We may need him." "Pleasant as that sounds, I wasn't planning to," said Mark. "Two warriors are better than one." "Good thinking," said Cristina. She slid her two butterfly knives into her belt. Emma had finished fastening on the last of her seraph blades. Julian felt the familiar chill of battle's expectation rising in his veins. "Let's go." As they headed downstairs, Julian found himself beside Kieran. The hair on the back of his neck prickled. Kieran felt like strangeness, wild magic, the murderous abandonment of the Hunt. He couldn't imagine what Mark had found to love about him. "Your brother was wrong about you," Kieran said as they descended the steps to the entryway. Julian glanced around, but no one seemed to be listening to them. Emma was beside Cristina, the twins were together, and Dru was talking shyly to Diego. "What do you mean?" he asked guardedly. He had learned well in the past to be wary of the Fair Folk, their verbal entrapments and their false implications. "He said you were gentle," said Kieran. "The most gentle person he knew." He smiled, and there was a cold beauty to his face when he smiled, like the crystalline surface of frost. "You are not gentle. You have a ruthless heart." For several long moments Julian was silent, hearing only the sounds of their steps on the stairs. At the last step he turned. "Remember it," he said, and walked away. Because I am a Shadowhunter. Mark stood beside Kieran on the sweep of grass that led down to the bluff and then the sea. The Institute rose behind them, dark and lightless, though from here, at least, the hole in the roof was invisible. Kieran put his fingers in his mouth and whistled, a sound achingly familiar to Mark. The sight of Kieran was still enough to make his heart ache. from the way he held himself, every line of his body speaking of his early Court training, to the way that his hair had grown too long since Mark had not been there to cut it, and the blue-dark strands fell into his eyes and tangled with his long eyelashes. Mark remembered being enchanted by the curve and sweep of those lashes. He remembered how they felt against his skin. "Why?" Kieran said. He was standing facing a little away from Mark, his posture rigid, as if he expected to be slapped. "Why come with me?" "Because you require watching," said Mark. "I could trust you once. I cannot trust you now." "That is not the truth," said Kieran. "I know you, Mark. I know when you lie." Mark spun on him. He had always felt a little afraid of Kieran, he realized: of the power of his rank, of his unassailable surety in himself. That fear was gone now, and he couldn't say if it was because of the Courage rune on his shoulder or because he no longer desperately needed Kieran to live. Wanted him, loved him--those were different questions. But he could survive, either way. He was a Shadowhunter. "Fine," Mark said, and he knew he should have said "very well," but the language wasn't in him anymore, it didn't beat in his blood, the high speech of Faerie. "I'll tell you why I wanted to come with you--" There was a flash of white. Windspear cleared a small rise and bounded up to them, answering the call of her master. She whinnied when she saw Mark and nosed at his shoulder. He stroked her neck. A hundred times she had carried him and Kieran in the Hunt, a hundred times they had shared a single mount, and ridden together, and fought together, and as Kieran climbed up onto the horse's back the familiarity was like fishhooks under Mark's skin. Kieran looked down at him, every inch the prince despite his bloodstained clothes. His eyes were half-lidded crescents of silver and black. "So tell me," he said. Mark felt the Agility rune burn on his back as he swung himself up behind Kieran. His arms went around Kieran automatically, hands settling themselves where they had always settled, at Kieran's belt. He felt Kieran inhale sharply. He wanted to drop his head to Kieran's shoulder. He wanted to put his hands over Kieran's and lace their fingers together. He wanted to feel what he had felt living among the Hunt, that with Kieran he was safe, with Kieran he had someone who would never leave him. But there were worse things than being left. "Because," Mark said, "I wished to ride with you in the Hunt one last time." He felt Kieran flinch. Then the faerie boy leaned forward, and Mark heard him say a few words to Windspear in the Fair Speech. As the horse began to run, Mark reached back to touch the place where Julian had put the runes. He had felt a rush of panic when the stele touched his skin, and then a calm that had flowed through him, surprising him. Maybe the runes of Heaven truly did belong on his skin. Maybe he'd been born to them after all. He held tight to Kieran as Windspear lifted up into the sky, hooves tearing the air, and the Institute spun away below them. When Emma and the others reached the convergence, Mark and Kieran were already there. They cantered out of the shadows on the back of a gorgeous white stallion that made Emma think of all the times in her childhood that she had wanted a horse. The Toyota came to a stop. The sky was bare of clouds, and the moonlight was sharp and silver as a knife. It outlined Mark and Kieran, turned them into the brilliantly illuminated outlines of faerie knights. Neither of them looked human. The field that reached to the bluff lay deceptively peaceful under the moonlight. The wide space of sea grass and sage bushes moved with soft rustles. The granite hill rose above it all, the dark space in the wall seeming to beckon them closer. "We killed many Mantids," said Mark. His eyes met Emma's. "Cleared the way." Kieran sat glowering, his face half-hidden by dark hair. Mark had his hands on Kieran's belt, steadying himself. As if suddenly recollecting this, Mark let go and slid to the ground. "We'd better go in," Mark said, tipping his face up to Kieran's. "You and Windspear stand guard." "But I--" Kieran began. "This is Blackthorn family business," said Mark in a tone that brooked no argument. Kieran looked toward Cristina and Diego, opened his mouth as if to voice a protest, and then closed it again. "Weapons check, everyone," Julian said. "Then we head in." Everyone, even Diego, obediently checked their belts and gear. Ty fished an extra seraph blade out of the car trunk. Mark looked over Dru's gear, reminded her again that her job was to stay behind them and to stick close to the others. Emma unbuckled her arm guard and rolled up her sleeve. She held her arm out to Julian. He looked at her bare arm and then up at her face and nodded. "Which one?" "Endurance," she said. She was already marked with runes for courage and accuracy, runes for precision and healing. The Angel had never really given the Shadowhunters runes for emotional pain, though--there were no runes to mend grief or a broken heart. The idea that her parents' death had been a failed experiment, a pointless throwaway, hurt more than Emma could have imagined. She had thought all these years they had died for some reason, but it was no reason at all. They had simply been the only Shadowhunters available. Julian took her arm gently, and she felt the familiar and welcome pressure of the stele against her skin. As the Mark emerged, it seemed to flow into her bloodstream, like a shaft of cool water. Endurance. She would have to endure this, this knowledge, fight past and through it. Do it for Tavvy, she thought. For Julian. For all of them. And maybe at the end of it, she would have her revenge. Julian lowered his hand. His eyes were wide. The Mark blazed against her skin, infused with a brightness she had never seen before, as if the edges of it were burning. She drew her sleeve down quickly, not wanting anyone else to notice. At the edge of the bluff, Kieran's white horse reared up against the moon. The sea crashed in the distance. Emma turned and marched toward the opening in the rock. <|title|>Chapter 25: Tomb by The Sounding Sea <|startofchapter|>Emma and Julian led the way into the cavern, and Mark brought up the rear, sandwiching the others between them. As before, the tunnel was narrow at first, the ground tumbled with uneven pebbles. The rocks were disturbed now, many of them kicked aside. Even in the dimness--Emma had not dared illuminate her witchlight--she could see where the moss growing along the cave wall had been clawed at by human fingers. "People came through here earlier," Emma murmured. "A lot of people." "Followers?" Julian's voice was low. Emma shook her head. She didn't know. She was cold, the good sort of cold, the battle cold that came from your stomach and spread outward. The cold that sharpened your eyes and seemed to slow time around you, so that you had infinite hours to correct the sweep of a seraph blade, the angle of a sword. She could feel Cortana between her shoulder blades, heavy and golden, whispering to her in her mother's voice. Steel and temper, daughter. They came out into the high-ceilinged cavern. Emma stopped dead, and the others crowded around her. No one said a word. The cavern was not as Emma remembered it. It was dim, giving the impression of immense space spreading away into darkness. The portholes were gone. Etched into the stone of the cave near her were the words of the poem that had become so familiar to them all. Emma could see sentences here and there, flashing out at her. I was a child and she was a child. In this kingdom by the sea, But we loved with a love that was more than love-- I and my Annabel Lee-- With a love that the winged seraphs of Heaven Coveted her and me. The winged seraphs of Heaven. Shadowhunters. Julian's witchlight flared up in his hand, illuminating the space, and Emma gasped. In front of them was a stone table. It rose chest high, the surface rough and pitted. It looked as if it had been carved out of black lava. A wide circle of white chalk, sketched on the floor, surrounded the table. On it lay Tavvy. He seemed to be sleeping, his small face soft and slack, his eyes closed. His feet were bare, and his wrists and ankles were locked into chains that were attached by loops of iron to the table's stone legs. A metal bowl, splashed with ominous-looking stains, had been placed by his head. Beside it was a jagged-toothed copper knife. The witchlight cut into the shadows that seemed to hang in the room like a living thing. Emma wondered how big the cave really was, and how much of it was a shifting illusion. Livvy cried out her brother's name and lunged forward. Julian caught hold of her, hauling her back. She struggled incredulously against his grip. "We need to save him," she hissed. "We have to get to him--" "There's a protection circle," Julian hissed back. "Drawn around him on the floor. If you step through it, it could kill you." Someone was murmuring softly. Cristina, whispering a prayer. Mark had stiffened. "Be quiet," he said. "Someone's coming." They did their best to melt back into the shadows, even Livvy, who had not stopped struggling. Julian's witchlight winked out. A figure had appeared out of the darkness. Someone in a long black robe, a hood hiding their face. A tall someone with hands sheathed in black gloves. He always showed up in a robe and gloves and a hood, okay? Completely covered. Emma's heart began to pound. The figure approached the table, and the protection circle opened like a lock, runes vanishing and fading until there was a gap to step through. Head down, the figure came closer to Tavvy. And closer. Emma felt the Blackthorns all around her, their fear like a living thing. She could taste blood in her mouth; she was biting her lip, so badly did she want to throw herself forward, risk the circle, grab Tavvy and run. Livvy broke away from Julian and burst into the cavern. "No!" she cried. "Step away from my brother, or I'll kill you, I'll kill you--" The figure froze. Slowly, it raised its head. Its hood fell back, and long, curling black hair spilled out. A familiar koi tattoo glimmered against brown skin. "Livvy?" "Diana?" Ty spoke, voicing his sister's disbelief. Livvy was stricken silent. Diana jerked away from the table, staring. "By the Angel," she breathed. "How many of you are here?" It was Julian who spoke. His voice was level, though Emma could feel the effort it took to keep it that way. Diego was leaning forward, his eyes narrow, dace Herondale and the Lightwoods were betrayed by their own tutor. "All of us," Julian said. "Even Dru? You don't understand how dangerous this is--Julian, you have to get everyone out of here." "Not without Tavvy," Emma snapped. "Diana, what the hell are you doing? You told us you were in Thailand." "If she was, no one at the Bangkok Institute knew about it," said Diego. "I checked." "You lied to us," Emma said. She remembered larlath saying: Foolish Shadowhunters, too naive to even know who you can trust. Had he meant Malcolm or Diana? "And you've barely been here, this whole investigation, like you were hiding something from us--" Diana recoiled. "Emma, no, it's not like that." "Then what is it like? Because I can't imagine what possible reason you could have for being here--" There was a noise. Approaching footsteps, from the shadows. Diana flung out a hand. "Get back--get away--" Julian grabbed for Livvy, hauling his sister back into the shadows just as Malcolm appeared. Malcolm. He looked just as he always did. A bit scruffy in jeans and a white linen jacket that matched his hair. In his hand he carried a large black book, tied with a leather strap. "It is you," Diana whispered. Malcolm looked at her calmly. "Diana Wrayburn," he said. "Now, now. I didn't expect to see you here. I rather thought you'd run away." Diana faced him. "I don't run." He seemed to look at her again, to see how close she was to Tavvy. He frowned. "Step away from the boy." Diana didn't move. "Do it," he said, tucking the Black Volume into his jacket. "He's nothing to you, anyway. You're not a Blackthorn." "I'm his tutor. He has grown up in my care." "Oh, come now," said Malcolm. "If you'd cared about those children, you'd have taken the post as head of the Institute years ago. But I suppose we all know why you didn't do that." Malcolm grinned. It transformed his whole face. If Emma had still held lingering doubts about his guilt, about the story Kieran had told, they vanished in that moment. His mobile, amusing features seemed to harden. There was cruelty in that smile, framed against a backdrop of echoing, depthless loss. A flare went up from the table, a burst of fire. Diana cried out and stumbled back, out of the circle of protection. It sealed itself up behind her. She hurled herself to her feet and threw herself toward Tavvy, but this time the circle held fast; she bounced off it as if off a glass wall, the force sending her staggering back. "No human thing can cross that barrier," said Malcolm. "I'm guessing you had a charm to get you through the first time, but it won't work again. You should have stayed away." "You can't possibly hope for success, Malcolm," Diana gasped. She was clutching her left arm with her right; the skin looked burned. "If you kill a Shadowhunter, the Nephilim will hunt you for the rest of your days." "They hunted me two hundred years ago. They killed her," said Malcolm, and the throb of emotion in his voice was something Emma had never heard before. "And we had done nothing. Nothing. I do not fear them, their unjust justice or unlawful laws." "I understand your pain, Malcolm," Diana said carefully. "But--" "Do you? Do you understand, Diana Wrayburn?" he snarled--then his voice softened. "Maybe you do. You have known the injustice and intolerance of the Clave. If only you hadn't come here--it's the Blackthorns I despise, not the Wrayburns. I always rather liked you." "You liked me because you thought I was too frightened of the Clave to look closely at you," Diana said, turning away from him. "To suspect you." For a moment she faced Emma and the others. She mouthed RUN at them silently, before turning back to Malcolm. Emma didn't budge, but she did hear a movement behind her. It was quiet; if she hadn't been wearing a rune that sharpened her hearing, it would have been inaudible. To her surprise, the movement was Julian, disappearing from her side. Mark was next to him. Silently they slipped back into the tunnel. Emma wanted to call after Julian--what was he doing?--but she couldn't, not without alerting Malcolm. Malcolm was still moving toward Diana; in a moment he'd be where he could see them. She put a hand to the hilt of Cortana. Ty was gripping a knife, white-knuckled; Livvy held her saber, her face set and determined. "Who told you?" Malcolm said. "Was it Rook? I didn't think he'd guessed." He tipped his head to the side. "No. You weren't sure when you got here. You suspected . . His mouth turned down at the corners. "It was Catarina, wasn't it?" Diana stood with her feet apart, her head back. A warrior stance. "When the second line of the poem was deciphered and I heard the phrase 'Blackthorn blood,' I realized that we weren't searching for a killer of mundanes and faeries. That this was about the Blackthorn family. And there is no one more likely to know about a grudge that goes back years than Catarina. I went to her." "And you couldn't tell the Blackthorns where you went because of the reason you know Catarina," said Malcolm. "She's a nurse--a nurse to mundanes. How do you think I found out--?" "She didn't tell you about me, Malcolm," snapped Diana. "She keeps secrets. What she told me about you was simply what she knew--that you'd loved a Nephilim girl and that she'd become an Iron Sister. She'd never questioned the story because as far as she knew, you'd never questioned the story. But once she told me that, I was able to check with the Iron Sisters. No Nephilim girl with that story had become one of them. And once I realized that was a lie, the rest began to come together. I remembered what Emma had told us about what she'd found here, the clothes, the candelabra. Catarina went to the Spiral Labyrinth and I came here--" "So Catarina gave you the charm to get you through the protection circle," said Malcolm. "Unfortunate that you wasted it. Did you have a plan or did you just rush here in a panic?" Diana said nothing. Her face looked carved out of stone. "Always have a plan," said Malcolm. "I, for one, have been crafting my current plan for years. And now here you are, the proverbial fly in the ointment. I suppose there's nothing to do but kill you, though I hadn't planned to, and exposing you to the Clave would have been so much more fun --" Something silver bloomed from Diana's hand. A sharp-pointed throwing star. It whipped toward Malcolm; one moment he was in its path, the next he was across the room. The throwing star hit the wall of the cave and tumbled to the ground, where it lay glimmering. Malcolm made a hissing noise, like an angry cat. Sparks flew from his fingers. Diana was lifted up into the air and flung back against the wall, then to the floor, her arms clamping themselves to her sides. She rolled into a sitting position, but when she tried to stand, her knees crumpled under her. She thrashed at her invisible bonds. "You won't be able to move," Malcolm said in a bored voice. "You're paralyzed. I could have killed you instantly, of course, but well, this is quite a trick I'm about to perform and every trick needs an audience." He smiled suddenly. "I suppose I shouldn't forget the audience I have. It's just that they aren't very lively." Suddenly the cavern was alive with light. The thick shadows behind the stone table dissolved, and Emma could see that the cavern reached back and back--there were long rows of seats set up, like church pews, neat and orderly, and the seats were filled with people. "Followers," Ty breathed. He had only seen them before out of the window of the Institute, Emma thought, and wondered what he thought of them up close. It was strange to know that Malcolm had led all these people, that he had had such power over them that they did anything for him--Malcolm, who they'd all thought of as a foolish figure, someone who tied his own shoelaces together. The Followers sat very still, their eyes wide open, their hands in their laps, like rows of dolls. Emma recognized Belinda and some of the others who had come to retrieve Sterling. Their heads were tilted to the side--a gesture of interest, Emma thought, until she realized how awkward the angle was and knew that it wasn't fascination that kept them so still. It was that their necks were broken. Someone pressed forward and put a hand on Emma's shoulder. It was Cristina. "Emma," she whispered. "We must attack. Diego thinks we can surround Malcolm, that enough of us could bring him down--" Emma stood paralyzed. She wanted to run forward, to attack Malcolm. But she could feel something in the back of her mind, an insistent voice, telling her to wait. It wasn't fear. It wasn't her own hesitation. If she hadn't known better, if she didn't think it would mean she was going crazy, she would have said it was Julian's voice. Emma, wait. Please wait. "Wait," she whispered. "Wait?" Cristina's anxiety was palpable. "Emma, we need to--" Malcolm strode into the circle. He was standing close to Tavvy's feet, which looked bare and vulnerable in the light. He reached out to the draped object standing at the foot of the table and twitched the cloth off it. It was the candelabra Emma remembered, the brass one that had been bare of candles. It had become a far more macabre thing. Onto each spiked point was jammed a severed hand, wrist down. Rigid, dead fingers reached for the ceiling. One hand bore a ring with a flashy pink stone. Sterling's hand. "Do you know what this is?" Malcolm asked, a gloating note in his voice. "Do you, Diana?" Diana looked up. Her face was swollen and bloody. She spoke in a croaking whisper. "Hands of Glory." Malcolm looked pleased. "It took me quite a long time to figure out that this was what I needed," he said. "This is why my attempt with the Carstairs family didn't work. The spell called for mandrake, and it was a long time before I realized that the word 'mandrake' was meant to stand in for main de gloire --a Hand of Glory." He smiled with keen pleasure. "The darkest of dark magic." "Because of the way they're made," said Diana. "They're murderers' hands. The hands of killers. Only a hand that has taken a human life can become a Hand of Glory." "Oh." The small gasp in the darkness was Ty, his eyes wide and startled. "I get it now. I get it." Emma turned toward him. They were pressed against opposite walls of the tunnel, looking across at each other. Livvy was next to Ty, Diego on his other side. Dm and Cristina were beside Emma. "Diego said it was weird," Ty continued in a low whisper, "that the murder victims were such a mix--humans, faeries. It's because the victims never mattered. Malcolm didn't want victims, he wanted murderers. It was why the Followers needed Sterling back--and why Belinda cut off his hands and left with them. And why Malcolm let her. He needed the murderer's hands, the hands they'd killed with--so he could do this. Belinda took both hands because she didn't know which one he'd killed with--and she couldn't ask." But why? Emma wanted to demand. Why the burning, the drowning, the markings, the rituals? Why? But she was afraid that if she opened her mouth, a scream of rage would come out. "This is wrong, Malcolm." Diana's voice was choked but steady. "I've spent days talking to those who've known you for years. Catarina Loss. Magnus Bane. They said you were a good, likable man. That can't be all lies." "Lies?" Malcolm's voice rose. "You want to talk about lies? They lied to me about Annabel. They said she had become an Iron Sister. All of them told me the same lie: Magnus, Catarina, Tessa. It was from a faerie I found out that they had lied. From a faerie I learned what had really happened to Annabel. By then she was long dead. The Blackthorns, murdering their own!" "That was generations back. The boy you have chained to that table never knew Annabel. These are not the people who hurt you, Malcolm. These are not the people who took Annabel from you. They're innocent." "No one is innocent!" Malcolm shouted. "She was a Blackthorn! Annabel Blackthorn! She loved me, and they took her--they took her and walled her up and she died there in the tomb. They did that to me and I do not forgive! I will never forgive!" He took a deep breath, clearly forcing himself to be calm. "Thirteen Hands of Glory," he said. "And Blackthorn blood. That will bring her back, and she will be with me again." He turned away from Diana, toward Tavvy, and picked up the knife that lay on the table by Tavvy's head. The tension in the tunnel was sudden and silent and explosive. Hands reached for weapons. Grips tightened on hilts. Diego raised his ax. Five pairs of eyes turned to Emma. Diana struggled even more desperately as Malcolm raised the knife. Light sparked off it, strangely beautiful, illuminating the lines of the poem on the wall. But we loved with a love that was more than love -- Julian, Emma thought. Julian, I've got no choice. We can't wait for you. "Go,"she whispered, and they exploded out of the tunnel: Ty and Livvy and Emma and Cristina, all of them, Diego rushing straight for Malcolm. For a split second Malcolm looked surprised. He dropped the knife--it hit the floor and, made of soft copper, the blade bent. Malcolm stared down at it, then back up at the Blackthorns and their friends--and began laughing. He stood, laughing, in the center of the protection circle, as they rushed at him --and one by one were slammed backward by the force of the invisible protective wall. Diego swung his battle-ax. The ax glanced off the air as if it had struck steel and recoiled backward. "Surround Malcolm!" Emma shouted. "He can't stay in the protected area forever! Circle him!" They spread out, surrounding the protective runes on the floor. Emma found herself across from Ty, knife in hand; he was looking at Malcolm with a peculiar expression on his face: half incomprehension, half hatred. Ty understood acting, pretending. But betrayal on the scale Malcolm had practiced it was something else again. Emma couldn't understand it herself and she'd had a clear view of just what kind of betrayal people were capable of when she'd watched the Clave exile Helen and abandon Mark. "You'll have to come out of there eventually," Emma said. "And when you do--" Malcolm bent and seized his damaged knife from the floor. When he straightened up, Emma saw that his eyes were the color of bruises. "When I do, you'll be dead," he spat, and whirled to reach out a hand toward the rows of the dead. "Rise!" he called. "My Followers, rise!" There was a series of groans and creaks. Throughout the cave the dead Followers began to stand. They moved neither unusually slowly nor unusually quickly, but they moved with steady determination. They did not seem to be armed, but as they neared the main chamber, Belinda--her eyes blank and empty, her head cocked to the side--flung herself at Cristina. Her fingers were bent into claws, and before Cristina could react, Belinda had torn bloody gashes down the side of her face. With a cry of disgust, Cristina shoved the corpse away from her, slashing her butterfly knife across Belinda's throat. It made no difference. Belinda stood up again, the wound in her throat bloodless and flapping, and swung toward Cristina. Before she could take more than a single step there was a flash of silver. Diego's ax sang out, whipping forward, severing Belinda's head from her neck. The headless body sank to the ground. The wound still wasn't bleeding: it looked cauterized. "Behind you!" Cristina shouted. Diego whirled. Behind him two other Followers were reaching to grab and claw at them. He spun in a swift arc, his ax taking both their heads with it. There was a noise behind Emma. Instantly she calculated where the Follower behind her was; she leaped, spun, kicked, and knocked him back. It was the clarinetist with the curly hair. She stabbed downward with Cortana, severing his head from his body. She thought of him winking at her in the Midnight Theater. I never knew his name, she thought, and then whirled back around. The room was in chaos. Just as Malcolm must have wanted, the Shadowhunters had abandoned the perimeter of the protection circle to ward off the Followers. Malcolm was ignoring everything that was going on around him. He had seized up the candelabra with the Hands of Glory on it and carried it to the head of the table. He set it down beside Tavvy, who slept on, a rosy flush on his cheeks. Dru had run to Diana and was struggling to help her get to her feet. As a Follower approached them, Dru whipped around and ran the woman through with her blade. Emma saw her swallow as the body crumpled and realized it was the first time Dru had killed someone in battle--even if that someone was already dead. Livvy was fighting gloriously, feinting and parrying with her saber, driving Followers toward Ty. He was carrying a seraph blade, one that blazed brightly in his grip. As a blond Follower lurched into him, he drove the blade into the back of the dead man's neck. There was a searing, crackling noise as the seraph blade met flesh and the Follower began to burn. He staggered away, clawing at his burning flesh, before tumbling to the ground. "Seraph blades!" Emma called. "Everyone! Use your seraph blades!" Lights blazed up through the cavern and Emma heard the murmur of voices calling the names of angels. Jophiel, Remiel, Duma. Through the haze of light she saw Malcolm with the bent copper knife. He ran a hand along the blade and it sprang back under his fingers, as sharp as it had been originally. He placed the tip of it against Tavvy's throat and sliced downward, slitting open the little boy's Batman T-shirt. The worn cotton curled open, revealing his thin, vulnerable chest. Emma's world seemed to drop away. In the chaos of the room, she was still fighting, her seraph blade flaming as she plunged it into one Follower, then two, then three. Their bodies crumpled all around her. She tried to push through them, toward Tavvy, just as she heard Julian's voice. She whirled around but couldn't see him--and yet his voice had been clear in her ears, saying, Emma, Emma, move aside, away from the tunnel. She jumped aside, skirting the body of a fallen Follower, just as she heard a new noise: the thunder of hooves. A sound pierced the room, something between a howl and the crash of an enormous bell. It bounced off the walls, a brutal echo, and even Malcolm looked up. Windspear exploded from the mouth of the tunnel. Julian sat astride him, his hands buried in the horse's mane. Mark was behind him, gripping his brother's belt. They seemed to blur almost into one person as Windspear leaped. Malcolm gaped as the horse hurtled through the air, smashing through the protective barrier. As Windspear sailed over the table, Julian flung himself from the horse's back, falling heavily onto the flat stone surface beside Tavvy. Emma felt the bone-jarring shock of his pain go through her own body. Mark kept his seat as Windspear swept over the table and landed on the other side of the circle. The circle itself, now pierced, began to writhe like an illuminated serpent, the runes flaring up one by one and then going out. Julian was pulling himself up onto his knees. Malcolm snarled and reached for Tavvy--just as a figure dropped from the ceiling and knocked him to the ground. It was Kieran. His hair shimmered blue-green and he raised a blade that was the same sea color. It plunged down toward Malcolm's chest, but Malcolm threw his hands up. Dark purple light exploded from his palms, hurling Kieran back. Malcolm rose to his feet, his face twisted in a snarl of hate. He flung out a hand to crush Kieran into dust. Windspear gave a scream. The horse whirled around, hooves raised, and punched them into Malcolm's back; somehow Mark kept his seat. The warlock went flying. The horse, red eyes wide, reared and snorted. Mark, grabbing a fistful of Windspear's mane, leaned down, his other hand outstretched toward Kieran. "Take it," Emma heard him say. "Kieran, take my hand." Kieran reached up, and Mark pulled him upright, hauling him onto Windspear's back. They swung around and charged at a knot of Followers, the horse scattering them, Mark and Kieran reaching down to finish off the living dead with strokes of their swords. Malcolm was dragging himself to his feet. His once-white jacket was liberally stained now with dirt and blood. He began to move toward the table, where Julian was kneeling over Tavvy, tugging at the chains that bound him. The protection circle surrounding them was still sputtering. Emma took a deep breath and raced for the table, leaping into the air. She felt a wavering snap of electricity as she passed through the broken circle, crouched, and flung herself upward. She landed on the table in a kneeling position, beside Julian. "Move away!" was all she had time to gasp. "Julian, move!" He rolled away from his brother, though she knew that letting go of Tavvy was the last thing he wanted to do. He slid to the edge of the table and rose to his knees, leaning back. Trusting Emma. Giving her space. A blade made by Wayland the Smith can cut anything. She swung down with Cortana, a few inches from Tavvy's wrist. The edge of the blade sliced through the chain and it fell away, rattling. She heard Malcolm scream, and a flash of violet fire split the room. Emma slashed down again with Cortana, severing the other chains holding Tavvy to the table. "Go!" she shouted at Julian. "Get him out of here!" Julian caught up his little brother in his arms. Octavian hung limp, his eyes rolled back. Julian leaped down from the table. Emma didn't see him vanish into the tunnel; she had already whirled back around. Mark and Kieran were trapped at one end of the room by a group of Followers, Diego and Cristina at another. Malcolm was advancing on Ty and Livvy. He raised his hand again--and a small figure flew toward him, holding up a blazing seraph blade. It was Dru. "Stay away from them!" she shrieked, her blade shining between them. "Stay away from my brother and sister!" Malcolm snarled, curling his finger toward her. A rope of purple light coiled around Dru's legs, jerking her off her feet. The seraph blade rolled away, sputtering against the stone. "I still need Blackthorn blood," Malcolm said, reaching down for her. "And yours will do as well as your little brother's would have. In fact, you look like you'd have a lot more of it--" "Stop!" Emma shouted. Malcolm looked up at her--and froze. Emma was standing upright on the stone table. One hand clutched Cortana. The other held the candelabra of Hands of Glory. "It took you a long time to collect these, didn't it?" she said in a cold voice. "The hands of thirteen murderers. Not so easy." Malcolm released Dru and she scuttled away toward the far side of the room, scrabbling at her belt for another weapon. Malcolm's face contorted. "Give it back." "Call them off," Emma said. "Call off your Followers, and I'll give you back your Hands of Glory." "Deprive me of my chance to regain Annabel, and you will pay with agony," he snarled. "Can't be worse than the agony of hearing you talk," Emma said. "Call them off or I'll cut these disgusting things into tiny pieces." She tightened her grip on Cortana. "Let's see if you can do a magic spell with those." Malcolm's gaze swept the room. The bodies of Followers littered the cavern, but some of them were still on their feet, pinning Diego and Cristina in the corner of the room. Mark and Kieran were astride Windspear, both laying about themselves with blades. The horse's hooves were stained red-brown with blood. The warlock's hands clenched at his sides. He turned and spat a few words in Greek, and the remaining Followers began to fall, crumpling to the ground. Diego and Cristina dashed over to Dru; Kieran brought Windspear to a halt and the faerie steed stood still as the dead fell dead once again. Malcolm charged toward the table. Emma ran the length of it, sprang off the end, and landed lightly on the floor. Then she kept running. She ran toward the rows of chairs that had been set up for the Followers, down the aisle between them, and into the shadows. The faint glow of Cortana gave enough light that she could see a dark corridor between rocks, snaking away into the hill. She plunged into it. Only the glowing moss on the walls gave any illumination. She thought she could see a glimmer in the distance and pressed on, though running with the heavy candelabra was making her arm ache. The corridor forked. Hearing footsteps behind her, Emma plunged to the left. She had only been running for a few yards when a glass wall loomed up in front of her. The porthole. It had grown larger, filling nearly a whole wall. The massive lever Emma remembered protruded from the stone beside it. The porthole glowed from within, like an enormous aquarium. Behind the glass she could see the ocean--it was radiant, a deep blue-green. She could see fish and drifting seaweed and strange lights and colors beyond the glass. "Oh, Emma, Emma," said Malcolm's voice behind her. "You took the wrong path, didn't you? But one could say that about so much of your life." Emma spun and jabbed the candelabra toward Malcolm. "Get away from me." "Do you have any idea how precious those hands are?" he demanded. "For the fullest potency, they had to be severed just after the murder was performed. Setting up the killings was a feat of skill and daring and timing. You can't believe how annoyed I was when you took Sterling from me before I could collect his hand. Belinda had to bring me both of them so I could discern which was the murdering instrument. And then Julian calling me for help--a stroke of luck, I have to say." "It wasn't luck. We trusted you." "And I trusted Shadowhunters once," said Malcolm. "We all make mistakes." Keep him talking, she thought. The others will follow me. "Johnny Rook said you told him to tell me about the body dump at the Sepulchre," she said. "Why? Why set me on your trail?" He moved a step forward. She jabbed the candelabra toward him. He held his hands up as if to placate her. "I needed you distracted. I needed you focused on the victims, not the murderers. Besides, you had to learn about the situation before the faerie convoy arrived on your doorstep." "And asked us to investigate the murders you were committing? What did you get out of that?" "I got the absolute promise that the Clave would stay out of it," said Malcolm. "Individual Shadowhunters don't frighten me, Emma. But the whole mess of them could be a mess indeed. I've known larlath a long time. I knew he had connections to the Wild Hunt and I knew the Wild Hunt had something that would make you move Heaven and earth to keep information from the Clave and the Silent Brothers. Nothing against the boy personally; at least his Blackthorn stock is diluted by some good, healthy Downworlder blood. But I know Julian. I knew what he'd prioritize, and it wasn't the Law or the Clave." "You underestimated us," Emma said. "We figured it out. We realized it was you." "I thought they might send a Centurion, but I never guessed he'd be someone you knew. Trusted enough to take into your confidence despite Mark. When I saw the Rosales boy, I realized I didn't have much time. I knew I'd have to take Tavvy right away. Thankfully, I had larlath's help, which has been invaluable. Oh," he added. "I heard about the whipping. I'm very sorry about that, larlath has his own ways of having fun, and they aren't mine." "You're sorry?" Emma stared in disbelief. "You killed my parents, and you're apologizing? I'd rather be whipped a thousand times and have my parents back." "I know what you're thinking. You Shadowhunters all think alike. But I need you to understand--" Malcolm broke off, his face working. "If you understood," he said, "you wouldn't blame me." "Then tell me what happened," Emma said. She could see the corridor behind him, over his shoulder, thought she could see shapes, shadows in the distance. If she could keep him distracted and the others could attack from behind . . . "You went to Faerie," she said. "When you found out that Annabel wasn't an Iron Sister. That she'd been murdered. Is that how you know larlath?" "Despite not being born gentry, he was the right hand of the Unseelie King back then," said Malcolm. "When I went, I knew the King might have me murdered. They don't much like warlocks. But I didn't care. And when the King asked me a favor, I did it. In return, he gave me the rhyme. A spell custom made to raise my Annabel. Blackthorn blood. Blood for blood, that's what the King said." "So why didn't you just raise her right then? Why wait?" "Faerie magic and warlock magic are very different," said Malcolm. "It was like translating something from another language. It took me years to decipher the poem. Then I realized it was telling me to find a book. I almost went out of my mind. Years of translation and all I got was a riddle about a book--" His eyes bored into hers, as if he were willing her to understand. "It was just chance that it was your parents," he said. "They returned to the Institute while I was there. But it didn't work. I did everything the spell book said, and Annabel didn't stir." "My parents--" "Your love for them wasn't greater than my love for Annabel," Malcolm said. "I was trying to make things fair. It was never about hurting you. I don't hate the Carstairs. Your parents were sacrifices." "Malcolm--" "They would have sacrificed themselves, wouldn't they?" he asked reasonably. "For the Clave? For you?" A rage so great it was numbing washed through Emma. It was all she could do to stay still. "So you waited five years?" She choked out the question. "Why five years?" "I waited until I thought I'd gotten the spell right," said Malcolm. "I used the time to learn. To build. I took Annabel's body from her tomb and moved it to the convergence. I created the Followers of the Guardian. Belinda was the first murderer. I followed the ritual--burned and soaked the body, carved the markings onto it--and I felt Annabel move." His eyes shone, an unholy blue-violet. "I knew I was bringing her back. After that nothing could have stopped me." "But why those markings?" Emma pressed herself back against the wall. The candelabra was heavy; her arm was throbbing. "Why the Unseelie King's poem?" "Because it was a message!" Malcolm cried. "Emma, for someone who's talked so much about revenge, who's lived it and breathed it, you don't seem to understand much about it. I needed the Shadowhunters to know. I needed the Blackthorns to know, when the youngest of them lay dead, whose hand had dealt them that blow. When someone has wronged you, it isn't enough that they suffer. They need to look at your face and know why they suffer. I needed the Clave to decipher that poem and learn exactly who would be their destruction." "Destruction?" Emma couldn't help her incredulous echo. "You're insane. Killing Tavvy wouldn't destroy the Nephilim--and none of them who are alive even know about Annabel--" "And how do you think that feels?" he shouted. "Her name forgotten? Her fate buried? The Shadowhunters turned her into a story. I think several of her kinsmen went mad--they couldn't bear what they'd done, couldn't bear the weight of the secret." Keep him talking, Emma thought. "If it was such a secret, how did Poe know? The poem, 'Annabel Lee'--" Something flashed across the backs of Malcolm's eyes, something secretive and dark. "When I heard it, I thought it was a sickening coincidence," he said. "But it obsessed me. I went to talk to the poet, but he had died. 'Annabel' was his last work." His voice was bleak with memory. "Years went by, and I believed her to be in the Adamant Citadel. It was all that comforted me. That she was alive somewhere. When I found out, I wanted to deny it, but it was the poem that proved the facts of it--Poe had learned the truth from Downworlders, learned it before I did--how Annabel and I had loved as children, how she would have left the Nephilim for me, but her family heard of it and decided death was preferable to life with a warlock. They'd walled her up in a tomb by the Cornwall sea, walled her up alive. Later, when I moved her body, I kept it near the ocean. She always loved the water." His breath was coming in sobs now. Emma, unable to move, stared. His grief was as raw and real as if what he were talking about had happened yesterday. "They told me she'd become an Iron Sister. All of them lied to me-- Magnus, Catarina, Ragnor, Tessa--corrupted by Shadowhunters, drawn in by their lies! And I, oblivious, grieving for her, until finally I found out the truth --" Sudden voices echoed in the hall; Emma heard the sound of running feet. Malcolm snapped his fingers. Violet light shimmered in the tunnel behind them, its iridescence fading as it grew dimmer and more opaque, solidifying into a wall. The sound of voices and footsteps vanished. Emma stood inside a sealed cave with Malcolm. She backed up, clutching the candelabra. "I'll destroy the hands," she warned, her heart pounding. "I'll do it." Dark fire sparked at his fingertips. "I could let you go," he said. "Let you live. Swim away through the ocean like you did before. You could carry my message back for me. My message to the Clave." "I don't need you to let me go." She was breathing hard. "I'd rather fight." His smile was twisted, almost sorrowful. "You and your sword, no matter its history, are no match for a warlock, Emma." "What do you want from me?" she demanded, her voice rising, echoing off the walls of the cave. "What do you want, Malcolm?" "I want you to understand," he said through gritted teeth. "I want someone to tell the Clave what they're responsible for, I want them to know the blood on their hands, I want them to know why." Emma stared at Malcolm, a thin, stretched figure in a stained white jacket, sparks dancing along the edges of his fingertips. He frightened her and made her sad, all at the same time. "Your why doesn't matter," she said finally. "Maybe you did what you did in the name of love. But if you think that makes any difference, you're no better than the Clave." He moved toward her--and Emma flung the candelabra at him. He ducked away and it missed, hitting the rock floor with a clang. The fingers of the severed hands seemed to curl in as if to protect themselves. Emma planted her feet apart, remembering Jace Herondale, years ago in Idris, showing her how to stand so you'd never be knocked down. She gripped the hilt of Cortana in a two-fisted grip, and this time she remembered Clary Fairchild, and the words she'd said to Emma in Idris, when Emma had been twelve years old. Heroes aren't always the ones who win. They're the ones who lose, sometimes. But they keep fighting, they keep coming back. They don't give up. That's what makes them heroes. Emma sprang toward Malcolm, Cortana upraised. He reacted with a second's delay--flinging his hand toward her, light bursting from his fingers. It sizzled toward her, a streak of gold-and-violet light. The delay gave her time to duck. She spun and raised Cortana over her head. Magic slid off the blade. She threw herself at Malcolm again and he ducked away, though not before she had slashed open his sleeve, just above the elbow. He barely seemed to notice. "The death of your parents was necessary," he said. "I had to see if the book worked." "No, you didn't," Emma snarled, brandishing Cortana. "You should know better than to try to raise the dead." "Because if Julian died, you wouldn't try to bring him back?" said Malcolm with a delicate rise of his eyebrows, and Emma recoiled as if he'd slapped her. "You wouldn't bring your mother and father back? Oh, it's so easy for you, as it is for all Shadowhunters, standing there, making your moral pronouncements, as if you're better than the rest of us--" "I am better," Emma said. "I'm better than you. Because I'm not a murderer, Malcolm." To Emma's shock, Malcolm recoiled--a true recoil of surprise, as if he hadn't imagined being called a murderer before. Emma lunged, Cortana outstretched. The sword drove into Malcolm's chest, splitting his blazer-- and rammed to a stop, as if she'd stabbed it into a boulder. She shrieked with pain as what felt like a bolt of electricity went up her arm. She heard Malcolm laugh, and a wave of energy shot from his outstretched fingers, slamming into her body. She was lifted and hurled backward, magic tearing through her like a bullet ripping a hole through a paper screen. She hit the uneven stone ground on her back, Cortana still gripped in her nerveless hand. Red pain misted behind her eyelids. Through the fog, she saw Malcolm standing over her. "Oh, that was precious." He grinned. "That was amazing. That was the hand of God, Emma!" He yanked his blazer open, and Emma saw what Cortana had struck--the Black Volume, tucked into the inside pocket of his jacket. Cortana dropped from her hand, the metal hitting stone. Wincing, Emma shoved herself up onto her elbows, just as Malcolm bent down and seized the dropped candelabra. He looked at it and then down at her, his grin still slashed across his face. "Thank you," he said. "These Hands of Glory would have been very hard to replace. Now, Blackthorn blood, that'll be easy." "Stay away from the Blackthorns," Emma said, and was horrified to hear the weakness of her own voice. What had the Black Volume done to her? Her chest felt as if something heavy had been rolled onto it, and her arm burned and ached. "You don't know anything," Malcolm snarled. "You don't know the monsters they are." "Have you," Emma said in a near whisper, "have you always hated them? Julian and the rest?" "Always," he said. "Even when it seemed like I loved them." Emma's arm was still burning, an agony that felt as if her skin was being lanced down to the bone. Her Endurance rune felt as if it were on fire. She tried not to let it show on her face. "That's horrible. It's not their fault. You can't blame them for their ancestors' sins." "Blood is blood," Malcolm said. "We are all what we were born to be. I was born to love Annabel and that was taken from me. Now I live only for revenge. Just as you have, Emma. How many times have you told me that all you want in life is to kill the one who killed your parents? What would you give up for it? Would you give up the Blackthorns? Would you give up your precious parabatai The one you're in love with?" His eyes glittered as she shook her head in denial. "Please. I always saw the way you looked at each other. And then Julian told me that your rune had healed him from Rook's poison. No normal Shadowhunter's rune should have been able to do that." "Not--proof of anything--" Emma gasped. "Proof? You want proof? I saw you, the two of you. On the beach, sleeping in each other's arms. I stood over you and watched you and thought how easy it would be to kill you. But then I realized that that would be a mercy, wouldn't it? Killing the two of you while you were in each other's arms? There's a reason you can't fall in love with your parabatai, Emma. And when you find out what it is, you will feel the cruelty of the Shadowhunters, just as I have." "You're a liar," she said in her weakest voice, her words trailing off into a whisper. The pain in her arm had gone. She thought of people who bled nearly to death, how they talked about the fact that in the last moments, all the pain vanished. Smiling, Malcolm knelt down beside her. He patted her left hand; her fingers twitched. "Let me tell you a truth before you die, Emma," he said. "It is a secret about the Nephilim. They hate love, human love, because they were born of angels. And while God charged his angels to take care of humans, the angels were made first, and they have always hated God's second creation. That is why Lucifer fell. He was an angel who would not bow to mankind, God's favored child. Love is the weakness of human beings, and the angels despise them for it, and the Clave despises it too, and therefore they punish it. Do you know what happens to parabatai who fall in love? Do you know why it's forbidden?" She shook her head. His mouth quirked into a smile. There was something about that smile, so faint and yet so full of bone-deep hatred, that chilled her the way none of his grinning had. "Then you have no idea what your death will spare your beloved Julian," he said. "So think about that as the life leaves your body. In a way, your death is a mercy." He raised his hand, violet fire beginning to crackle between his fingers. He hurled his magic at her. And Emma flung her arm up, the arm that Julian had carved the Endurance rune on, the arm that had been burning and aching and screaming at her to use it since she'd struck the Black Volume. Fire slammed into her arm. She felt it like a hard blow, but nothing more. The Endurance rune was pulsing through her body with its power, and alongside that power rose her own rage. Rage at knowing Malcolm had killed her parents, rage for the wasted years she'd searched for their killer when he'd been right in front of her. Rage for every time he'd smiled at Julian or picked up Tavvy when his heart was full of hate. Rage at one more thing that had been taken from the Blackthorns. She seized Cortana and wrenched herself to her knees, her hair flying as she drove the sword into Malcolm's gut. This time there was no Black Volume to block her thrust. She felt the blade go in, felt it tear through skin and rip past bone. Saw the tip of it burst out through his back, his white jacket soaked through with red blood. She sprang to her feet, yanking the sword free. He made a choking noise. Blood was spilling onto the ground, running across the stone, spattering the Hands of Glory. "This is for my parents," she said, and slammed his body as hard as she could against the glass wall. She felt his ribs snap as the glass behind him fissured. Water began to pour through the cracks. She felt it splatter against her face, salty as tears. "I'll tell you about the parabatai curse," he gasped. "The Clave will never let you know it--it's forbidden. Kill me and you'll never learn--" With her left hand, Emma yanked down the lever. She threw herself behind the glass door as it swung open, and the current exploded through. It moved like a living thing--like a hand, shaped out of water, formed by the sea. It surrounded Malcolm, and for a frozen moment Emma saw him there clearly, struggling with feeble motions, within a whirlpool of water, water that spilled across the floor, water that gripped him, encircling him like an unbreakable net. It lifted Malcolm off his feet. He gave a cry of terror and the ocean took him, the current rushing back out, carrying him with it. The glass door slammed shut. The silence the water left behind was deafening. Exhausted, Emma slumped against the glass of the porthole door. Through it she could see the ocean, the color of the night sky. Malcolm's body was a pale white star in the darkness, drifting among the weeds, and then a dark, spiky talon curled upward, through the ripples, and caught hold of Malcolm by the ankle. With a quick jerk, his body was yanked down and out of view. There was a bright flicker. Emma turned to see that the violet wall of light in the corridor behind her had vanished--spells disappeared when the warlocks who cast them died. "Emma!" There were pounding footsteps in the corridor. Out of the shadows, Julian appeared. She saw his stricken expression as he caught her to him, his hands knotting in her soaked, bloodstained gear. "Emma, God, I couldn't get to you through the wall, I knew you were there but I couldn't save you--" "You saved me," she said hoarsely, wanting to show him the Endurance rune on her arm, but she was pressed too tightly against him to move. "You did. You don't know it, but you did." And then she heard their voices. The others, coming toward them down the corridor. Mark. Cristina. Diego. Diana. "Tavvy," she whispered. "Is he--" "He's fine. He's outside with Ty and Livvy and Dru." He kissed her temple. "Emma." His lips brushed hers. She felt a shock of love and pain go through her. "Let me go," she whispered. "You have to let me go, they can't see us like this. Julian, let me go." His head came up, his eyes full of agony, and he moved away. She saw what it cost him, saw the tremor in his hands as he lowered them to his sides. Felt the space between them like the space of a wound torn into flesh. She dragged her gaze from his and looked down at the ground. The floor was awash with seawater and blood, ankle-deep. Somewhere Malcolm's candelabra floated beneath the surface. Emma was glad. The salt would dissolve Malcolm's gruesome monument to murder, dissolve it and pick it clean, and it would be white bones, settling as Malcolm's body settled to the floor of the ocean. And for the first time in a long time, Emma felt grateful to the sea. <|title|>Chapter 26: The Winged Seraphs of Heaven <|startofchapter|>The parabatai curse. The Clave will never let you know it -- it's forbidden -- Malcolm's words rang in Emma's ears as she made her way back out into the night, following the others down the damp corridors of the convergence. Julian and Emma walked deliberately apart, keeping distance between them. Exhaustion and pain were slowing Emma down. Cortana was back in its sheath. She could feel the sword humming with energy; she wondered if it had absorbed magic from Malcolm. But then, she didn't want to think about Malcolm, the red tendrils of his blood unfurling through the dark water like banners. She didn't want to think about the things he'd said. Emma was the last to step out of the cave, into the darkness of the outside world. Ty, Livvy, and Dru were sitting on the ground with Tavvy--the little boy was cradled in Livvy's arms, seeming sleepy but awake. Kieran stood a distance away, a scowl on his face that relaxed only somewhat when Mark emerged from the convergence. "How is Tavvy? Is everything all right?" Julian approached his siblings. Dru jumped up and hugged him tightly--then gasped and pointed. A loud grinding noise cracked through the air. The gap in the hill was closing up behind them like a wound healing. Diana darted toward it, as if she could hold the pathway open, but the stone sealed shut; she snatched her hand back just in time to keep it from being crushed. "You cannot stop it," said Kieran. "The opening and the path inside were made by Malcolm. This hill does not naturally hold within it tunnels and caves. Now that he is dead, his enchantments are failing. There may perhaps be another entrance into this space, at some other ley line convergence. But this door will not open again." "How did you know he was dead?" Emma said. "Lights going on in the city below," said Kieran. "The--I don't know what your mundane word is for it--" "Blackout," said Mark. "The blackout's over. And Malcolm cast the spell that was responsible for the blackout, so--yeah." "Does that mean we can get a signal on our phones?" Ty wondered. "I'll check," Julian said, and walked away to press his phone to his ear. Emma thought she heard him say Uncle Arthur's name, but she couldn't be sure, and he moved out of earshot before she could hear another word. Diego and Cristina had joined Livvy, Ty, and Dru. Cristina was bending down over Tavvy, and Diego was reaching for something inside his gear jacket. Emma moved to join them; as she drew closer, she saw that Diego was holding a silver flask. "Not giving him booze, are you?" Emma said. "He's a little young for it." Diego rolled his eyes. "It's an energy draught. Made by the Silent Brothers. Might counteract whatever Malcolm gave him to make him sleepy." Livvy took the flask from Diego and tasted the contents; with a nod, she tipped the fluid into her little brother's mouth. Tavvy drank gratefully as Emma knelt down and put her hand to his cheek. "Hey, sweetheart," she said. "Are you all right?" He smiled up at her, blinking. He looked like Julian when he and Emma were children. Before the world had changed him. My best friend and my best love. She thought of Malcolm. The parabatai curse. Her heart aching, she kissed Tavvy's baby-soft cheek and rose to her feet to find Cristina behind her. "Your left arm," Cristina said gently, and led her a few feet away. "Hold it out?" Emma obeyed and saw that the skin of her hand and wrist was red and blistered, as if she'd been burned. Cristina shook her head, drawing her stele from her jacket. "There were a few minutes there, when you were behind that wall Malcolm made, where I thought you weren't coming out." Emma bumped her head against Cristina's shoulder. "Sorry." "I know." Cristina turned brisk, pushing up Emma's sleeve. "You need healing runes." Emma leaned into Cristina as the stele ran over her skin, taking comfort in the fact that she was there. "It was weird, being trapped in there with Malcolm," she said. "Mostly he just wanted to tell me about Annabel. And the thing is--I actually felt bad for him." "It's not weird," said Cristina. "It's a terrible story. Neither he nor Annabel did anything wrong. To see someone you love so horribly punished and tortured--to think they'd abandoned you only to find out that you abandoned them--" She shuddered. "I hadn't thought about it that way," Emma said. "You think he felt guilty?" "I'm sure he did. Anyone would." Emma thought of Annabel with a pang. She had been blameless, a victim. Hopefully she had never been aware of anything, never been aware of Malcolm's efforts to revive her. "I told him he was as bad as the Clave and he actually seemed surprised." "No one is ever the villain of their own story." Cristina released Emma, pausing to examine her healing handiwork. Already the pain in Emma's arm was receding. She knew a rune from Julian would most likely have worked more quickly, but after what had happened with the Endurance rune, she didn't dare let him rune her in front of everyone else. Julian. Past Cristina's shoulder, she could see him, near the car. He was holding his phone to his ear. As she watched, he tapped the screen and slid it back into his pocket. "So are the signals working again?" Ty asked. "Who were you calling?" "Pizza," Julian said. They all stared at him. Like the rest of them, he was filthy, a long scratch along his cheek, his hair tangled. In the moonlight his eyes were the color of an underground river. "Thought we might all be hungry," he said with that deceptive mildness that Emma now knew meant that whatever was happening on the surface didn't match what was going on in Julian's mind. "We should go," he said. "The convergence's collapse means the Clave is going to be able to see the dark magic emanating from this place on their map. When we get back, I don't think we'll be alone." They hurried to get everyone ready to go: Livvy carrying Octavian on her lap in the backseat of the Toyota, Diana taking Cristina and Diego in the truck, which she had hidden among some scrub brush. Kieran offered the use of Windspear again to Mark, but Mark declined. "I wish to ride with my brothers and sisters," he said simply. Julian turned to Kieran. The faerie's eyes were flat, unreflective. Julian wished he could see what his brother had loved: a Kieran who had been warm toward Mark or kind. He wished he could thank Kieran for not leaving Mark alone among the Hunt. He wished he felt less hatred in his heart. "You don't need to come back with us," Julian said. "We don't need your help anymore." "I will not go until I know Mark is safe." Julian shrugged. "Have it your way. When we get back, don't come into the Institute until we say so. We'd be in trouble just for fighting alongside you." Kieran's mouth hardened. "Without me, you would have been defeated this night." "Probably," said Julian. "I'll remember to be grateful every time I see the scars on Emma's back." Kieran flinched. Julian turned and walked toward the car. Diana cut in front of him, holding up a hand. She was wrapped in a heavy shawl, and her face was speckled with blood like light freckles. "The Clave may well be waiting for you," she said without preamble. "If you want, I'll take the blame for everything and throw myself on their mercy." Julian looked at her for a long moment. He had lived by ironclad rules for so long. Protect Tavvy, protect Livvy and Ty, protect Dru. Protect Emma. Recently that had widened out slightly--he would protect Mark, because Mark had come back, and he would protect Cristina, because Emma loved her. It was a sort of love few other people could understand. It was total and it was overwhelming and it could be cruel. He would destroy a whole city if he thought that city posed some threat to his family. When you were twelve years old and you were all that stood between your family and annihilation, you didn't learn moderation. He considered now, with all the detachment he could muster, what would happen if Diana tried to take the blame--he entertained the idea, turned it over in his head, and rejected it. "No," he said. "And I'm not being kind. I don't think it would work." "Julian--" "You hide things," he said. "The Angel knows there's something you're still hiding, some reason you couldn't take over the Institute. Something you won't tell, anyway. You're a good hider, but you're not a good liar. They won't believe you. But they will believe me." "So you already have a story for them?" Diana asked, her dark eyes widening. Julian didn't say anything. She sighed, pulling the shawl tighter. "You're a piece of work, Julian Blackthorn." "I'll take that as a compliment," he said, though he doubted she meant it as one. "Did you know I'd be here tonight?" she asked. "Did you think I was in league with Malcolm?" "I didn't think it was likely," Julian said. "But then, I don't entirely trust anyone." "That's not true," Diana said, looking across to where Mark was helping Emma into the driver's side of the car. Her blond hair flew like sparks in the starlight. Diana glanced back at Julian. "You'd better get back. I'll make myself scarce until tomorrow." "I'll tell them you didn't know anything. It isn't as if people don't deceive their tutors all the time. And you don't even live with us." He heard the Toyota start up. The others were waiting for him. "So you'll drop Diego and Cristina at the Institute and then head home?" "I'll head somewhere," she said. He started toward the car, then paused and turned to look back at her. "Do you ever regret it? Choosing to be our tutor? You didn't have to." The wind blew her dark hair across her face. "No," she said. "I am who I am because I've been part of your family. Never forget, Jules. The choices we make, make us." The drive back was silent and exhausted. Ty was quiet, looking out the window of the passenger seat. Dru was curled into a ball. Tavvy was awake but barely, his head against Livia's shoulder. Emma was slumped against a backseat window, holding Cortana, her damp blond hair straggling around her face, her eyes closed. Mark was squeezed in beside her. Julian wanted to reach for Emma, slide his hand into hers, but he didn't dare, not in front of the others. He couldn't stop himself from reaching back from the driver's seat to touch Tavvy's arm, though, making sure that his little boy was still alive, still all right. They were all still alive, and it was little short of a miracle. Julian felt as if every nerve in his body had been pulled out of his skin. He visualized the nerve endings exposed, each one like a Sensor, reacting to the presence of his family around him. He thought of Diana, saying, You're going to have to let go. And he knew it was true. Someday he would have to open his hands, let his brothers and sisters go freely into the world, a world that would cut them. bruise them, knock them down and not help them back up again. Someday he would have to do that. But not yet. Not quite yet. "Ty," Julian said. He spoke quietly, so that the passengers in the backseat wouldn't hear him. "Yes?" Ty looked over. The shadows under his eyes were as gray as his irises. "You were right," Julian said. "I was wrong." "I was?" Ty sounded surprised. "About what?" "You coming with us to the convergence," said Julian. "You fought well-- amazingly, in fact. If you hadn't been there . . ." His throat closed up. It was a moment before he could speak again. "I'm grateful," he said. "And I'm also sorry. I should have listened. You were right about what you could do." "Thanks," said Ty. "For apologizing." He fell silent, which Julian assumed meant the conversation was over, but after a few seconds Ty leaned over and touched his head lightly to Julian's shoulder--a friendly head butt, as if he were Church, seeking affection. Julian reached out to ruffle up his younger brother's hair and nearly smiled. The nascent smile vanished quickly when they bumped to a stop in front of the Institute. It was lit up like a Christmas tree. It had been dark when they'd left, and as they piled out of the car, Julian caught the faintest of faint glimmers on the air. He exchanged a look with Emma. Light in the air meant a Portal, and a Portal meant the Clave. Diana's truck pulled up, and Diego and Cristina spilled out. They slammed the doors behind them and the truck sped away. The Blackthorns had all emerged as well: some of them blinking and barely awake (Dru, Mark), some looking quietly suspicious (Ty), and some nervous (Livvy, who was clutching Tavvy tightly). In the distance, Julian thought he could see the faint pale shape of Windspear. They headed toward the Institute steps together. At the top of the stairs, Julian hesitated with his hand on the front door. Anything could be waiting for him on the other side, from the massed array of the Council to a few dozen Clave warriors. Julian knew there was no more hiding Mark. He knew what his plans were. He knew they balanced, like a million angels, on the head of a pin. Chance, circumstance, and determination held them together. He glanced over and saw Emma looking at him. Though her tired and grimy face didn't break into a smile, he saw her confidence and her trust in him in her eyes. He'd missed one, he thought. Chance, circumstance, determination-- and faith. He opened the door. The light in the entryway was blazingly bright. Both witchlight chandeliers were burning, and the upstairs gallery was illuminated by rows of torches that the family almost never used. Light glowed beneath the doors of the Sanctuary. In the middle of the room stood Magnus Bane, resplendent in an elegant outfit: a brocade jacket and trousers, his fingers adorned with dozens of rings. Beside him was Clary Fairchild, her bright red hair tied up in a messy bun, wearing a delicate green dress. They both looked as if they had just come from a party. As Julian and the rest flooded into the room, Magnus raised an eyebrow. "Well, well," he said. "Kill the fatted calf and all that. The prodigals have returned." Clary's hand flew to her mouth. "Emma, Julian--" She whitened. "Mark? Mark Blackthorn?" Mark said nothing. None of them did. Julian realized that unconsciously, they had grouped themselves around Mark, a loose circle protecting him. Even Diego, wincing and blood-spattered, was part of it. Mark stood silent, his ragged pale-blond hair a halo around his head, his pointed ears and polychrome eyes clearly visible in the bright light. Magnus looked hard at Mark before glancing up toward the second floor. "Jace!" he called. "Get down here!" Clary made a move toward the Blackthorns, but Magnus pulled her back gently. She was frowning. "Are you all right?" she said, directing the question to Emma but clearly meaning it for all of them. "Are you hurt?" Before anyone could speak, there was a commotion at the top of the steps, and a tall figure appeared there. Jace. The first time Julian had really met Jace Herondale, who was famous throughout the Shadowhunter world, Jace had been about seventeen and Julian had been twelve. Emma, who had also been twelve, had not been shy about letting the world know she thought Jace was the handsomest and most amazing person who had ever graced the planet with his presence. Julian had not agreed, but then, no one had asked him. Jace descended the stairs in a manner that made Julian wonder if Jace thought he had a magnificent train trailing behind him--slowly, deliberately, and as if he were aware that he was the focus of all eyes. Or maybe he was just used to being stared at. Emma had stopped going on about Jace at some point, but the Shadowhunter world in general considered him out of the ordinary in terms of looks. His hair was shockingly gold and so were his eyes. Like Magnus and Clary he looked like he had come from a party: He wore a wine-red blazer and an air of casual elegance. Reaching the bottom step, he glanced toward Julian--covered in blood and dirt--and then toward the rest of them, just as ragged and stained. "Well, either you've been out fighting the forces of evil or you've come from a much wilder party than we have," Jace said. "Hello, there. Blackthorns." Livvy sighed. She was looking at Jace the way Emma had when she was twelve. Dru, loyal to her crush on Diego, just glared. "Why are you here?" Julian asked, though he knew the answer. Still, it was better to build up the idea that you were surprised. People trusted your answers more when they thought they weren't rehearsed. "Dark magic," said Magnus. "A huge flare of it on the map. At the convergence site." He slid his gaze toward Emma. "I thought you might do something with that bit of information I gave you. Where ley lines are concerned, the convergence is always key." "Why didn't you go there, then?" Emma asked. "To the convergence?" "Magnus checked it out with a spell," Clary said. "There was nothing there but some wreckage, so we Portaled here." "From my sister's engagement party, to be precise," said Jace. "There was an open bar." "Oh!" A look of happiness flitted across Emma's face. "Isabelle's marrying Simon?" As far as Julian was concerned, no girl had ever been born who could compare to Emma, but when Clary smiled, she was very pretty. Her whole face lit up. It was something she and Emma had in common, actually. "Yeah," Clary said. "He's really happy." "Mazel tov to them," said Jace, leaning against the banister rail. "Anyway, we were at the party, and Magnus got this alert about necromantic magic near the L.A. Institute, and he tried to reach Malcolm, but no luck. So we snuck out, just the four of us. Which is a big loss to the party if you ask me, because I was going to give a toast and it was going to be glorious. Simon would never be able to show his face in public again." "Not really the point of an engagement toast, Jace," Clary said. She was looking worriedly at Diego--he was awfully pale. "Four of you?" Emma looked around the room. "Is Alec here?" Magnus opened his mouth to answer, but at that moment the doors of the Sanctuary burst open, and a tall, stocky man with dark hair emerged: Robert Lightwood, the current Inquisitor, second in command to the Consul of Idris, and in charge of investigating Shadowhunters who had broken the Law. Julian had met the Inquisitor exactly once before, when he'd been forced to stand up in front of the Council and give his account of Sebastian's attack on the Institute. He remembered holding the Mortal Sword in his hand. The feeling of the truth being dragged out of you with knives and hooks, of your internal organs tearing apart. He had never lied when he was asked about the attack, had never wanted or planned to. But it hurt just the same. And bearing the Mortal Sword, even for such a short time, had forged an indelible bond in his mind between truth and pain. The Inquisitor strode toward him. He was a little older than the Robert Lightwood Julian remembered, his hair more liberally streaked with gray. But the look in his dark blue eyes was the same: hard and cold. "What's going on here?" he demanded. "There was a flare of necromantic magic traced to this Institute several hours ago and your uncle claims to know nothing about it. More troubling, he refused to tell us where you disappeared to." He spun around, his eyes raking their group--and landing on Mark. "Mark Blackthorn?" "I already said that," said Clary. Julian had the feeling she wasn't overly fond of her prospective father-in-law--if he was that. He realized he didn't know if Jace and Clary had plans to get married. "Yes," Mark said. He was standing upright as if facing a firing squad. He met Robert Lightwood's eyes, and Julian saw the Inquisitor flinch at the sight of Wild Hunt eyes in a Shadowhunter's face. They were an accusation against the Clave, those eyes. They said. You abandoned me. You did not protect me. I was alone. "I have come back," Mark said. "The Wild Hunt would never have released you," said the Inquisitor. "You were far too valuable to them. And faeries don't give back what they take." "Robert--" Magnus began. "Tell me I'm wrong," Robert Lightwood said. "Magnus? Anyone?" Magnus was silent, his unhappiness evident. Jace's gold eyes were unreadable. Dru made a frightened, stifled sound. Clary whirled on Robert. "It's not fair to interrogate them," she said. "They're just kids." "Don't you think I remember the trouble you and Jace got into when you were 'just kids'?" "He has a point." Jace smiled at Julian and Emma, and the smile was like gold melted over steel. You could see how the softness was a disguise, and how what lay under it had won Jace the title of best Shadowhunter of his generation. "We didn't use any necromancy," said Julian. "We didn't need to. The thing about faeries--they're always willing to make a deal." Two figures appeared in the doorway of the Sanctuary. Anselm Nightshade, his sharp, bony face wary. And beside him, Arthur, looking tired and carrying a glass of wine. Julian had left the full bottle in the Sanctuary earlier that night. It was a good vintage. The protected space of the Sanctuary extended slightly past the doors. Anselm edged a toe over the line, winced, and quickly pulled it back. "Arthur. You claimed you were discussing Sophocles with Anselm Nightshade all evening?" Robert Lightwood said. '"If you try to cure evil with evil you will add more pain to your fate,'" said Arthur. Robert raised an eyebrow. "He's quoting Antigone," said Julian wearily. "He means yes." "Come into the room, Arthur," said Robert. "Please do not give me the impression you're hiding in the Sanctuary." "When you use that voice, I want to hide in the Sanctuary," said Magnus. He had begun wandering around the room, picking up objects and setting them down. His actions appeared idle, but Julian knew better. Magnus did little without premeditation. Neither did Jace. Jace was sitting on the lowest step of the stairs, his sharp gaze unwavering. Julian felt the weight of it, like pressure against his chest. He cleared his throat. "My younger brothers and sisters have nothing to do with this," he said. "And Tavvy is exhausted. He was almost killed tonight." "What?" Clary said, alarm darkening her green eyes. "How did that happen?" "I'll explain," Julian said. "Just let them go." Robert hesitated for a moment before nodding curtly. "They can leave." Relief washed through Julian as Ty, Livvy, and Dru headed up the steps, Livvy still carrying Octavian against her shoulder. At the top, Ty paused for a moment and looked down. He was looking at Mark, and the expression on his face was fearful. "It is the disease of tyranny to trust no friends. Inquisitor," said Anselm Nightshade. "Aeschylus." "I did not come here, from my daughter's engagement party, for a classics lesson," said Robert. "Nor is this Downworlder business. Please wait for us in the Sanctuary, Anselm." Arthur passed his glass to Anselm, who raised it ironically but went, seeming relieved to get away from the demarcation line where hallowed ground began. The moment he was gone, Robert rounded on Arthur. "What do you know about all this. Blackthorn?" "A convoy came to us from Faerie," said Arthur. "They offered to return Mark to his family, and in exchange, we would help them discover who was killing faeries in Los Angeles." "And you said nothing of this to the Clave?" said Robert. "Despite knowing you were breaking the Law, the Cold Peace--" "I wanted my nephew back," said Arthur. "Wouldn't you have done the same, for your family?" "You're a Shadowhunter," said Robert. "If you must choose between your family and the Law, you choose the Law!" "Lex malla, lex nulla," said Arthur. "You know our family motto." "He did the right thing." For once there was no humor in Jace's voice. "I would have done the same. Any of us would." Robert looked exasperated. "And did you discover it? Who was killing faeries?" "We discovered it tonight," said Julian. "It was Malcolm Fade." Magnus stiffened, his cat eyes flashing. "Malcolm?" He executed a quick about-face and marched toward Julian. "And why do you think it was a warlock? Because we know magic? Is all dark magic to be blamed on us, then?" "Because he said he did it," said Julian. Clary's mouth fell open. Jace remained seated, face unreadable as a cat's. Robert's expression darkened. "Arthur. You're the head of the Institute. Talk. Or are you going to leave that to your nephew?" "There are things," Julian said, "things we didn't tell Arthur. Things he doesn't know." Arthur put his hand to his head, as if it pained him. "If I've been deceived," he said, "then let Julian explain it." Robert's hard gaze swept over their group and fastened on Diego. "Centurion," he said. "Step forward." Julian tensed. Diego. He hadn't factored him in, but Diego was a Centurion, and as such, sworn to tell the truth to the Clave. Of course Robert would want to talk to Diego instead of him. He knew there was no real reason for Robert to want to talk to him at all. He didn't run the Institute. Arthur did. Never mind that he'd been answering Robert's letters for years and recognized Robert's way of doing things better than anyone else here; never mind that in official correspondence, at least, they knew each other well. He was just a teenage boy. "Yes, Inquisitor?" Diego said. "Speak to us of Malcolm Fade." "Malcolm isn't who you think," Diego said. "He has been responsible for countless deaths. He was responsible for the deaths of Emma's parents." Robert shook his dark head. "How is that possible? The Carstairs were murdered by Sebastian Morgenstern." At the sound of Sebastian's name. Clary went pale. She looked immediately over at Jace, who matched her glance--a look woven through with years of shared history. "No," Clary said. "They weren't. Sebastian was a murderer, but Emma has never believed that he was responsible for her parents' deaths, and neither have Jace or I." She turned to look at Emma. "You were right," she said. "I always thought you would be proved right someday. But I'm sorry it was Malcolm. He was your friend." "And mine," said Magnus, his voice strained. Clary moved toward him, placing her hand on his arm. "He was also the High Warlock," said Robert. "How did this happen? What do you mean he'd been murdering people?" "A series of killings in Los Angeles," said Diego. "He was convincing mundanes to commit murder and then harvesting their bodies for parts he could use in necromancy." "The Clave should have been called in." Robert sounded furious. "The Clave should have been called in the moment a faerie convoy approached you --" "Inquisitor," said Diego. He sounded tired. The whole right shoulder of his gear was dark red with blood. "I am a Centurion. I answer directly to the Council. I didn't report what was happening either, because once things were in motion, reporting would have meant slowing things down." He didn't look at Cristina. "The Clave would have begun the investigation over again. There was no time, and the life of a child hung in the balance." He put his hand to his chest. "If you wish to strip me of my medallion, I would understand. But I will maintain to the end that the Blackthorns did what was right." "I am not going to strip you of your medallion, Diego Rocio Rosales," said Robert. "We have few Centurions, and you are one of the best." He looked at Diego critically, at his bloody arm and exhausted face. "The Council will expect a report from you tomorrow, but for now, see to your wounds." "I'll go with him," Cristina said. She helped Diego up the stairs, him leaning on her slender frame. Mark looked up at them and then away as they disappeared past the witchlight, into the shadows. "Robert," said Jace when they were gone. "When Julian was twelve he testified in front of the Council. It's been five years. Let him talk now." Despite the look of clear reluctance on his face, Robert nodded. "Very well," he said. "Everyone wants to hear you speak, Julian Blackthorn. So speak. Julian spoke. Calmly and without flourishes, he began to describe the investigation, from the first bodies found to their realization that evening of Malcolm's guilt. Emma watched her parabatai as he spoke, and wondered how things would have turned out differently if Sebastian Morgenstern hadn't attacked the L.A. Institute five years ago. In Emma's mind, for years now, there had been two Julians. Julian before the attack, who was like everyone else--loving his family but annoyed by them too; a brother among brothers and sisters with whom he squabbled and argued and teased and laughed. And Julian after. Julian, still a child, teaching himself how to feed and change a baby, cooking four different meals for four younger siblings who liked and disliked different things; Julian hiding his uncle's sickness from a mass of adults who would have taken his children away from him; Julian waking up from screaming nightmares that something had happened to Ty or Livvy or Dru. Emma had been there to hold him, but she had never quite understood-- how could she have, when she didn't know about Arthur, didn't know how alone Julian truly was? She only knew that the nightmares had faded and a quiet strength had settled over Jules, a hard determination before which the softness of childhood gave way. He hadn't been a boy in a long, long time. It had been that boy that Emma had thought could be her parabatai. She would never have fallen in love with that Julian. But she had fallen in love with this one, without knowing it, because how could you fall in love with someone you only half-guessed existed? She wondered if Mark recognized the same dissonance in some way, if he saw the strangeness in how Julian stood and spoke to the Inquisitor now, as if they were two adults together. If he saw the care with which Julian told the story of what had happened: the key details he left out, the way he made it seem natural, inevitable, that they hadn't told the Clave what they were doing. The way he left out Kit and Johnny Rook. He wove a tale of a series of events that was nobody's fault, that no one could have foreseen or prevented, and he did it without a shred of guile ever showing on his face. When he was done, Emma shivered inside. She loved Julian, she would always love Julian. But for just that moment, she was a little afraid of him too. "Malcolm was creating murderers?" Robert echoed when Julian had stopped speaking. "It makes sense," said Magnus. He stood with his chin cupped in his hand, one long finger tapping against his cheekbone. "One of the reasons necromancy is forbidden is that so many necessary ingredients are things like the hand of a murderer who killed in cold blood, or the eye of a hanged man which still holds the image of the last thing he saw. Obtaining those ingredients by orchestrating the situations that create them was ingenious." He seemed to notice Robert glaring at him. "Very evil, also," he added. "Very." "Your nephew tells a convincing story, Arthur," said Robert. "But you are notably absent from it. How did you not notice all this was going on?" Julian had woven his story to make Arthur's absence seem natural. But Robert was like a dog with a bone. Emma supposed that was why he had been elected to the position of Inquisitor. Emma looked across the room and met Clary's green gaze with her own. She thought of Clary kneeling in front of her in Idris, holding her hands, complimenting Cortana. She thought of how the kindnesses that were shown to children were things they never forgot. "Robert," Clary said. "There's no need for this. They made difficult decisions, but they weren't wrong decisions." "Then let me ask Arthur this. Clary," said Robert. "What punishment would he choose for Nephilim, even young Nephilim, who break the Law?" "Well, that would depend," Arthur said, "on whether they were punished already, five years ago, by losing their father and brother and sister." Robert flushed darkly. "It was the Dark War that took their family--" "It was the Clave that took Mark and Helen," said Magnus. "We expect betrayal from our enemies. Not from those who are supposed to care for us." "We would have protected Mark," said Robert Lightwood. "There was no need to fear the Clave." Arthur was pale, his eyes dilated. Yet Emma had never heard him speak so eloquently, or with such clarity. It was bizarre. "Would you have?" he demanded. "In that case, why is Helen still at Wrangel Island?" "She's safer there," snapped Robert. "There are those--not myself-- who still hate the faeries for the betrayal of the Dark War. How do you think they would treat her if she were among other Shadowhunters?" "So you couldn't have protected Mark," said Arthur. "You admit it." Before Robert could speak, Julian said, "Uncle Arthur, you can tell him the truth." Arthur looked puzzled; as clearheaded as he had seemed, he didn't seem to know what Julian meant. He was breathing quickly, too, as he had in the Sanctuary when his head pained him. Julian turned to Robert. "Arthur wanted to go to the Council as soon as the Fair Folk brought Mark here," he said. "We begged him not to. We were afraid our brother would be taken away. We thought if we could just solve the murders, if Mark helped us do it, it might make him look better in the eyes of the Council. Help convince them to let him stay." "But do you understand what you did?" the Inquisitor demanded. "Malcolm--if he was in pursuit of dark power--he could have posed a threat to all the Clave." Robert didn't sound convinced, though. "He wasn't in pursuit of power," said Julian. "He wanted to raise someone he loved from the dead. It was evil, what he did. And he's died for it, as he should have. But it was his only goal and only plan. He never cared about the Clave or Shadowhunters. He only cared about her." "Poor Malcolm," said Magnus quietly. "To lose the person he loved, that way. We all knew that he had loved a girl who had become an Iron Sister. We had no idea of the truth." "Robert," Jace said. "These kids haven't done anything wrong." "Perhaps not, but I'm the Inquisitor. I can hardly conceal this. With Malcolm Fade dead, having taken the Black Volume to the bottom of the ocean with him, and with all of this having happened without the head of the Institute having noticed--" Julian stepped forward. "There's something Uncle Arthur isn't telling you," he said. "He wasn't just letting us run around wild while he did nothing. He's been tracking down a different source of dark magic." Julian looked at Magnus as he spoke. Magnus, who had helped them in the past. He seemed to be willing Magnus to understand and believe him. "It's no coincidence that Anselm Nightshade is in the Sanctuary," Julian went on in a hard voice. "Arthur brought him because he knew you were coming." Robert raised an eyebrow. "Is that true? Arthur?" "You'd better tell them," Julian said, looking hard at his uncle. "They're going to find out anyway." "I--" Arthur was staring at Julian. There was a blankness on his face that made Emma's stomach knot up. Julian appeared to be almost willing Arthur to follow his lead. "I didn't want to mention it," Arthur said, "because it seemed to pale in comparison to what we learned about Malcolm." "Mention what?" "Nightshade's been using dark magic for profit," said Julian. His kept his expression calm, a touch regretful. "He's been making money hand over fist using addictive powders in the pizza he makes." "That's--totally right!" said Emma, speaking over Arthur's stunned silence. "There are people all over the city so addicted that they would do anything for him just to get more." "Pizza thralls?" said Jace. "This is without doubt, the weirdest--' He broke off as Clary stomped on his foot. "Seems serious," he said. "I mean, addictive demon powders and all." Julian crossed the room to the hall closet and yanked it open. Several pizza boxes slid out. "Magnus?" Julian said. Magnus threw the end of his scarf over his shoulder and approached Julian and the boxes. He lifted the lid of a pizza box with as much gravity as if he were opening a locked treasure chest. He held his hand out over the box, turning it from left to right. Then he looked up. "Arthur's right," he said. "Dark magic." A cry echoed from inside the Sanctuary. "Betrayal!" Anselm shouted. "Et tu, Brute?" "He can't get out," said Arthur, looking dazed. "The outside doors are locked." Robert took off running into the Sanctuary. After a moment Jace and Clary followed, leaving only Magnus, hands in his pockets, remaining in the foyer. Magnus regarded Julian with serious green-gold eyes. "Nicely done," he said. "I don't know quite how else to describe it, but--nicely done." Julian looked over at Arthur, who was leaning back against the wall by the Sanctuary door, his eyes half-shut, pain etched on his face. "I'll burn in Hell for this," he muttered in a low voice. "There is no shame in burning for your family," said Mark. "I will burn beside you, gladly." Julian looked at him, surprise and gratitude written across his face. "And so will I," said Emma. She looked at Magnus. "I'm sorry," she said. "I'm the one who killed Malcolm. I know he was your friend, and I wish--" "He was my friend," said Magnus, his eyes darkening. "I knew he had loved someone who died. I didn't know the rest of the story. The Clave betrayed him, just like they betrayed you. I've lived a long time--I've seen many betrayals, and many broken hearts. There are those who let their grief devour them. Who forget that others also feel pain. If Alec died--" He looked down at his hands. "I have to think I wouldn't be like that." "I'm just glad I finally know what happened to my parents," Emma said. "Finally, I know." Before anyone could add anything, there was an explosion of noise at the entrance to the Sanctuary. Jace appeared suddenly, skidding backward, his fancy blazer ripped and his blond hair mussed. He turned a smile on the rest of them, so bright it seemed to light up the room. "Clary's got Nightshade pinned in a corner," he said. "He's pretty nimble for such an old vampire. Thanks for the exercise, by the way-- and to think I thought tonight was going to be boring!" After everything had been sorted out with the Inquisitor, who had hauled off Anselm Nightshade (still vowing revenge), and most of the Institute's inhabitants had crawled off to bed, Mark went to the front door and looked out. It was nearly dawn. Mark could see the sunrise, far in the distance, at the eastern edge of the beach's curve. A pearlescent lightening of the water, as if white paint were spilling into the world through a crack in the sky. "Mark," said a voice at his shoulder. He turned. It was Jace Herondale. It was strange looking at Jace and Clary, strange in a way he doubted it was for his siblings. After all, the last time he'd seen them they'd been Julian's age. They'd been the last Shadowhunters he'd seen before he'd disappeared into the Hunt. They were far from unrecognizable--they were probably only twenty- one or twenty-two. But up close Mark could see that Jace had acquired an indefinable aura of decisiveness and adulthood. Gone was the boy who had looked into Mark's eyes and said in a shaking voice, The Wild Hunt. You're one of them now. "Mark Blackthorn," Jace said. "I'd be polite and say you've changed, but you haven't." "I have," Mark said. "Just not in a way you can see." Jace seemed to take this with good grace; he nodded and looked out toward the ocean. "A scientist said once that if the ocean were as clear as the sky, if we could see everything in it, no one would ever go into the sea. It's that horrifying, what lives in the water, five miles down." "There speaks one who does not know the terrors of the sky," said Mark. "Maybe not," Jace said. "Do you still have the witchlight I gave you?" Mark nodded. "I kept it with me through Faerie." "I've only ever given witchlight rune-stones to two people in my life," said Jace. "Clary and you." He cocked his head to the side. "There was something about you, when we found you in the tunnels. You were frightened, but you weren't going to give up. I never had the slightest doubt I'd see you again." "Really?" Mark looked at him skeptically. "Really." Jace smiled his easy, charming smile. "Just remember that the New York Institute is on your side," he said. "Remind Julian if you're ever in trouble again. It's not simple running an Institute. I ought to know." Mark began to protest, but Jace had already turned and gone back inside to rejoin Clary. Mark somehow doubted Jace would have paid any attention to his protest if he'd made it. He'd clearly seen the situation for what it was, but wasn't planning on doing anything to upset the balance. Mark scanned the horizon again. Dawn was spreading. The road and the highway, the desert trees, all were thrown into sharp relief by the increasing light. And there by the edge of the road stood Kieran, looking out toward the sea. Mark could see him only as a shadow, but even as a shadow Kieran could never have been anyone else. He went down the steps and over to where Kieran was standing. He had not changed his clothes, and the blade of his sword, which hung by his side, was stained with gore. "Kieran," Mark said. "You will stay?" Kieran asked, and then caught himself with a rueful look. "Of course, you will stay." "If you're asking if I'm going to remain with my family or go back to the Wild Hunt, then yes, you have your answer," said Mark. "The investigation is over. The murderer and his Followers are gone." "That was not the letter of the bargain," said Kieran. "The Shadowhunters were to release the murderer into the custody of Faerie, for us to mete out justice." "Given that Malcolm is dead, and the magnitude of larlath's betrayal, I expect your folk to look with leniency upon my choice," said Mark. "My MW?" Kieran echoed. "You know they are not lenient. They have not been lenient with me." Mark thought of the first time he had seen Kieran's black eyes staring out defiantly from the tangle of his dark hair. He thought of the glee of the other Hunters at having a prince to torment and mock. How Kieran had borne it, with an arrogant curl to his lip and a lift of his chin. How he had borne the fact that his father had thrown him to the Hunt the way a man might throw a bone to a dog. Kieran had not had a brother who loved him and fought to get him back. He had not had Julian. "But I will fight for you," he said, meeting Mark's gaze. "I will tell them it is your right to stay." He hesitated. "Will we--see each other again?" "I don't think so, Kieran," said Mark, as gently as he could. "Not after all that has happened." A brief ripple of pain, quickly hidden, passed across Kieran's face. The color of his hair had faded to a silvery-blue, not unlike the shade of the ocean in the morning. "I did not expect a different answer," he said. "I hoped, though. It is hard to kill hope. But I suppose I lost you a long time ago." "Not that long," said Mark. "You lost me when you came here with Gwyn and larlath and you let them whip my brother. I could forgive you for any pain incurred by me. But I will never forgive you for what Julian and Emma suffered." "Emma?" said Kieran, his brows drawing together. "I thought it was the other girl who had drawn your fancy. Your princess." Mark gave a choked laugh. "By the Angel," he said, and saw Kieran blanch at the Shadowhunter words. "Your imagination is limited by your jealousy. Kieran . . . everyone who lives under this roof, whether they are bound by blood or not, we are tied together by an invisible net of love and duty and loyalty and honor. That is what it means to be a Shadowhunter. Family--" "What would I know of family? My father sold me to the Wild Hunt. I do not know my mother. I have three dozen brothers, all of whom would gladly see me dead. Mark, you are all I have." "Kieran--" "And I love you," Kieran said. "You are all that exists on the earth and under the sky that I do love." Mark looked into Kieran's eyes, the silver and the black, and he saw in them, as he always had, the night sky. And he felt that treacherous pull under his rib cage, the one that said that the clouds could be his road. That he need never worry about human concerns: money and shelter and rules and laws. He could ride through the skies over glaciers, through the treetops of forests no human being knew existed. He could sleep in the ruins of cities lost for centuries. His shelter could be a single blanket. He could lie in Kieran's arms and count the stars. But he had always given the stars his brothers' and sisters' names. There was beauty in the idea of freedom, but it was an illusion. Every human heart was chained by love. Mark drew his elf-bolt necklace up over his head. He reached out and took Kieran's hand, turning it over so it was palm up, and dropped the necklace into it. "I will draw no more bows for the Wild Hunt," he said. "Keep this and perhaps remember me." Kieran's hand tightened on the arrowhead, his knuckles whitening. "The stars will go out before I forget you, Mark Blackthorn." Lightly, Mark touched Kieran's cheek. The faerie prince's eyes were wide and tearless. But in them Mark could see a great wilderness of loneliness. A thousand dark nights spent riding with no home to arrive at. "I do not forgive you," he said. "But you came to help us, at the end. I do not know what would have happened if you hadn't. So if you need me--if it is a true need--send for me and I will come." Kieran half-closed his eyes. "Mark--" But Mark had already turned away. Kieran stood and watched him go, and though he did not move or speak, at the edge of the bluff Windspear reared up and cried out, his hooves pawing at the sky. Julian's window looked out over the desert. At any point during the past five years he could have switched out for Mark's room, which had a view of the ocean, but it would have felt like giving up on the idea that Mark would ever come back. And besides, his was the only room with a window seat, lined with now slightly threadbare cushions. He and Emma had spent hours there together, reading and drawing, the sun through the glass turning her pale hair to fire. He was sitting there now, the window cranked open to carry away the scents that still seemed to hang over him, even after a shower: blood and wet stone, seawater and dark magic. Everything ended eventually, he thought. Even the strangest night of his life. Clary had taken him and Emma aside after Anselm had been captured, hugged them, reminded them that they could always call. He knew Clary was, in her quiet way, trying to tell him, tell both of them, that it was all right to lay their burdens on her. He knew he never would. His phone trilled. He glanced down at the screen: It was Emma. She'd sent him a photo. No words, just the picture of her closet: the door open, the photographs and maps and string and notes spilling out. He threw on jeans and a T-shirt and headed down the hall. The Insitute was dead silent, wrapped in sleep, the only sound the desert wind outside, soughing against glass and stone. Emma was in her room, sitting up against the footboard of her bed, her phone on the floor beside her. She was wearing a nightgown, long with thin straps, pale white in the fading moonlight. "Julian," she said, knowing he was there without looking up. "You were awake, right? I had a feeling you were awake." She stood up, still looking at her closet. "I don't know what to do with it," she said. "I spent such a long time collecting everything that seemed like evidence, making guesses, thinking about this and nothing but this. This was my big secret, the heart of everything I did." She looked toward him. "Now it's just a closet full of junk." "I can't tell you what you should do with all that," he said. "But I can tell you, you don't need to think about it now." Her hair was down, like spun light around her shoulders, tickling her face with the ends of curls, and he dug his fingers into his palms to keep himself from pulling her against him so he could bury his face and hands in it. He looked instead at the healing cuts on her arms and hands, the fading red of her burned wrist, the evidence that tonight had not been easy. Nothing they did ever was. "Mark's staying," she said. "Right? There's nothing the Clave can do to take him away now?" Mark. Her first thought is about Mark. Julian pushed the thought down, away: it was unworthy, ridiculous. They weren't twelve anymore. "Nothing," Julian said. "He was never exiled. The rule was only that we couldn't look for him. We didn't. He found his way home and they can't change that. And I think, after the help he gave us with Malcolm, it would be a very unpopular move if they tried." She flashed a faint smile at him before clambering up onto the bed, sliding her long bare legs under the coverlet. "I went to check on Diego and Cristina," she said. "He was passed out in her bed and she was asleep in the chair next to him. I'm going to make so much fun of her tomorrow." "is Cristina in love with him? Diego, I mean," Julian asked, sitting down on the side of Emma's bed. "Not sure." Emma wiggled her fingers. "They have, you know. Stuff." "No, i don't know." He copied her gesture. "What's that?" "Unfinished romantic business," Emma said, pulling the blanket up. "Finger wiggling means unfinished business? I'll have to keep that in mind." Julian felt a smile tug the corners of his mouth. Only Emma could make him smile after a night like the one they'd had. She turned back a corner of the blanket. "Stay?" There was nothing he wanted more than to crawl in beside her, to trace the shape of her face with his fingers: wide cheekbones, pointed chin, half-lidded eyes, eyelashes like lace against his fingertips. His body and mind were beyond exhausted, too worn out for desire, but the yearning for closeness and companionship remained. The touch of her hands, her skin, was a comfort nothing else could reproduce. He remembered the beach, lying awake for hours, trying to memorize what it was like to hold Emma. They'd slept beside each other so many times, but he'd never realized how different it was when you could encompass the shape of someone else in your arms. Fit your breathing to their breathing. He crawled into bed beside her, clothes still on, and slid under the covers. She was on her side, her head propped on her hand. Her expression was serious, intent. "The way you orchestrated everything tonight, Julian. You scared me a little." He touched the edge of her hair, briefly, before dropping his hand. A slow ache was spreading through his body, a deep ache that seemed to come from the marrow of his bones. "You should never be scared of me," he said. "Never. You're one of the people I would never hurt." She reached out a hand and put her palm against his heart. The fabric of his T-shirt separated her hand and his chest, but he felt the touch as if it were on his bare skin. "Tell me what happened when we got back, with Arthur and Anselm," she said. "Because I don't think even I understand it." So he told her. Told her about how for months he'd been emptying the dregs of the vials Malcolm gave him for Arthur into a bottle of wine, just in case. How he'd left the wine containing this super-dosage in the Sanctuary. How he'd realized at the convergence that they would need Arthur to be clearheaded when they returned, to be functioning. The way he'd called Arthur, telling him he needed to offer the wine to Anselm and drink some himself, knowing it would affect only his uncle. How he knew he'd done a terrible thing, dosing his uncle without his knowledge. How he'd planted the pizza boxes in the foyer the first time they'd ordered it, just in case; how he knew he'd done a terrible thing to Anselm, who did not deserve the punishment he was likely to get. How he didn't know who he was sometimes, how he was capable of doing the things he did, and yet how he couldn't not do them. When he was done, she leaned in, touching his cheek gently. She smelled faintly of rosewater soap. "I know who you are," she said. "You're my parabatai. You're the boy who does what has to be done because no one else will." Parabatai. He had never thought of the word with bitterness before, even feeling what he felt and knowing what he knew. And yet now, he thought of the years and years ahead of them in which there would be no time in which they felt fully safe together, no way to touch or kiss or reassure each other without fear of discovery, and a sudden emotion surged through him, uncontrollable. "What if we ran away?" he said. "Ran away?" she echoed. "And went where?" "Somewhere they wouldn't find us. I could do it. I could find a place." He saw the sympathy in her eyes. "They'd figure out why. We wouldn't be able to come back." "They forgave us for breaking the Cold Peace," he said, and he knew he sounded desperate. He knew his words were tripping over themselves. But they were words he had wanted to say, not dared to say, for years: They were words that belonged to a part of himself that had been locked up so long he had wondered if it were even still living. "They need Shadowhunters. There aren't enough of us. They might forgive us for this, too." "Julian--you wouldn't be able to live with yourself if you left the kids. And Mark, and Helen. I mean, you just got Mark back. There's no way." He held back thought of them, of his brothers and sisters, as if he were Poseidon holding back the tide. "Are you saying this because you don't want to go away with me? Because if you don't want it--" In the distance, down the hall, a thin cry rose: Tavvy. Julian was out of the bed in seconds, the floor cold against his bare feet. "I'd better go." Emma pushed herself up on her elbows. Her face was serious, dominated by her wide dark eyes. "I'll go with you." They hurried down the hall to Tavvy's room. The door was propped open, a dim witchlight burning inside. Tavvy was curled up half in and half out of his tent, tossing and turning in his sleep. Emma was on her knees next to him in moments, stroking his disarrayed brown hair. "Baby," she murmured. "Poor baby, by the Angel, what a night for you." She lay down on her side, facing Tavvy, and Julian lay down on the little boy's other side. Tavvy gave a cry and curled back into Julian, his breath softening as he relaxed into sleep. Julian looked across his little brother's curly head at Emma. "Do you remember?" he said. He could see in her eyes that she did remember. The years they'd taken care of the others, the nights they stayed up with Tavvy or with Dru, with Ty and Livvy. He wondered if she'd spun fantasies, as he had, that they were married and these their children. "I remember," she said. "That's why I said you couldn't ever leave them. You couldn't stand it." She propped her head on her hand, the scar on her forearm a white line in the dimness. "I don't want you to do something you'll spend your life regretting." "I've already done something I'm going to spend my life regretting," he said, thinking of the circles of fire in the Silent City, the rune on his collarbone. "Now I'm trying to fix it." She lowered her head gently to the floor beside Tavvy, her pale hair making a pillow. "Like you said about my closet," she said. "Let's talk about it tomorrow. Okay?" He nodded, watching as she closed her eyes, as her breaths evened out into sleep. He'd waited this long, after all. He could wait another day. After the dawn, Emma woke from a nightmare, crying the names of her parents--and of Malcolm--aloud. Julian picked her up in his arms and carried her down the hallway to her own bedroom. <|title|>Chapter 27: Sever My Soul <|startofchapter|>The last time Kit Rook ever saw his father, it was an ordinary day and they were sitting in their living room. Kit was sprawled on the floor reading a book on cons and scams. According to Johnny Rook, it was time to "learn the classics"--which for most people would have meant Hemingway and Shakespeare, but for Kit meant memorizing things like the Spanish Prisoner and the Melon Drop. Johnny was in his favorite chair, in his usual thinking pose--fingers templed under his chin, legs crossed. It was times like this, when the sun slanted through the window and lit up the fine, sharp bones of his father's face, that Kit wondered about all the things he didn't know: who his mother had been, if it was true, as was whispered in the Market, that Johnny's family was English aristocracy who'd tossed him out when he manifested his Sight. It wasn't that Kit yearned to be aristocracy so much as he wondered what it would be like to be in a family that had more than two people in it. The ground suddenly seized up under him. Kit's book went flying and he slid several feet across the floor before slamming into the coffee table. He sat up, heart speeding, and saw his father already at the window. Kit got to his feet. "Earthquake?" he said. When you lived in Southern California you got used to small shiftings of the fault lines in the earth, waking up in the night with the glasses rattling in the kitchen cupboards. Johnny turned away from the window, his face deathly pale. "Something's happened to the Guardian," Johnny said. "The protection spells on the house have faded." "What?" Kit was bewildered. Their house had been warded for as long as he could remember. His father had always spoken of the wards as if they were the roof or the foundation: essential, necessary, built into the fabric of their home. He remembered, then, last year, his father saying something about demon protection spells, more powerful ones-- Johnny swore, a fluent string of curses, and whirled toward the bookcase. He seized a worn spell book. "Get downstairs, Kit," he said, moving to kick aside the rug in the middle of the room, revealing the protection circle there. "But--" "I said get downstairs!" Johnny took a step toward his son, as if he meant to reach out to him, to touch his shoulder perhaps. Then he dropped his arm. "Stay in the cellar and don't come out, no matter what happens," he barked, and turned back to the circle. Kit began to back toward the stairs. He stumbled down one step, and then another, before pausing. Johnny's phone was on a low shelf of the bookcase, reachable from the steps. Kit grabbed it up, looking for the name, her name. But if you change your mind, you have my number in your phone. Under Carstairs. He barely had time to type out a message when the floor of the living room exploded upward. Things spilled up from the space below. They looked like massive praying mantises, their bodies the bitter green of poison. They had small triangular heads with wide mouths filled with jagged teeth, long bodies that gleamed with slime, and jagged, razored forelegs. Kit's father stood frozen in the middle of his circle. A demon flung itself toward him, and bounced off the spell that surrounded him. Another followed, equally unsuccessful. The demons set up a loud chittering. Kit couldn't move. He knew about demons, of course. He'd seen pictures, even smelled the scent of demonic magic. But this was different. He caught his father's eye: Johnny was glaring at him in a mixture of panic and fury. Get downstairs. Kit tried to make his feet move, to carry him. They wouldn't. Panic made him freeze. The largest demon seemed to catch the scent of him and buzzed in excitement. It began to scuttle toward him. Kit looked at his father. But Johnny didn't move. He stayed in his circle, his eyes bulging. The demon lunged for Kit, razored forelegs extended. And Kit jumped. He had no idea how he did it, or how his body knew what to do. He pushed off from the stairs and hurtled over the banister, landing in a crouch in the living room. The demon, which had been reaching for him, gave a loud screech as it lost its balance and toppled downstairs, smashing into the wall of the landing. Kit whirled back around. For a moment he caught his father's eye. There was something in Johnny's expression that was almost sorrowful--a look Kit had never seen before--and then another chunk of the floor collapsed, taking a section of the protection circle with it. Kit flung himself backward. He flipped into the air and came down balanced on the arms of a chair, just in time to see two of the demons seize his father and rip him in half. Emma was in the middle of a very confusing dream about Magnus Bane and a troupe of clowns when she was awoken by a hand on her shoulder. She muttered and dug herself deeper into the bedclothes, but the hand was insistent. It stroked down her arm, which was actually very pleasant. A warm mouth brushed the edge of her lips. "Emma?" Julian said. Vague memories of him carrying her down the hall to her bedroom and then collapsing beside her drifted through the tired fog in her brain. Hmm, she thought. There really seemed to be no reason to get up at all, not when Julian was being affectionate. She feigned sleep as he kissed her cheek, and then along her jaw, and then-- She sat bolt upright, sputtering. "You stuck your tongue in my ear!" "Yup." He grinned. "It did get you moving, didn't it?" "Eugh!" She threw a pillow at him, which he nimbly ducked. He was wearing jeans and a gray T-shirt that made his eyes look lapis blue. He was clearly just awake and tousle-haired and so adorable that she could only keep herself from attacking him by putting her hands behind her back. "Why are you putting your hands behind your back?" he asked. "No reason." She wrinkled up her nose. "That ear thing was weird. Don't do it again." "How about this?" he suggested, and leaned in to kiss the base of her throat. Sensation spiraled out from the places his lips touched--her collarbone first, then her neck, then the side of her mouth. She drew her hands out from behind her back and reached for him. His skin was sunshine-warm. Their faces were so close that she could see the small starbursts of color inside his eyes: pale gold, paler blue. He wasn't smiling. His expression was too intent for that. There was a wanting in his eyes that made her feel like she was breaking apart. Their legs tangled in the blankets as they came together, mouths seeking. He still wasn't an expert kisser, but she liked that. She liked being reminded that he hadn't been with anyone but her. That she was his first. She liked that something as simple as a kiss was still a source of amazement for him. She used her tongue to trace the corners of his mouth, the seam of his lips, until he sank back on the bed, pulling her on top of him. His body shuddered, arching up toward hers, his hands sliding down to grip her hips. "Emma?" There was a knock on the door. They jerked away from each other, Julian rolling off the bed, Emma sitting upright, her heart pounding. "Emma, it's Dru. Have you seen Jules?" "No," Emma croaked. "I haven't." The door started to open. "Don't," Emma called. "I'm--I'm getting dressed." "Whatever," Dru said dismissively, but the door didn't open further. Resolutely, Emma didn't look toward Julian. Everything's fine, she told herself. Calm, be calm. "Well, if you see him, can you tell him Tavvy and everyone need lunch? Livvy and Ty are making a mess in the kitchen, too." Her voice held the satisfied tone of a sibling tattling on another sibling. "Sure," said Emma. "Did you check the studio? He might be there." There was a rustle. "No, I didn't. Good idea. See you later!" "Bye," Emma said, faintly. Dru's footsteps were already receding down the hall. Finally Emma let herself look at Julian. He was leaning against the wall, his chest rising and falling fast, his eyes half-lidded, teeth digging into his lip. He exhaled. "Raziel," he whispered. "That was close." Emma got to her feet, her nightgown swishing around her knees. She was shaking. "We can't," she started. "We can't--we'll get caught--" Julian was already across the room, taking her in his arms. She could feel his heart slamming against his rib cage, but his voice was steady. "It's a stupid Law," he said. "It's a bad Law, Em." There is a reason you can't fall in love with your parabatai, Emma. And when you find out what it is, you will feel the cruelty of the Shadowhunters just as I have. Malcolm's voice, unwelcome and unavoidable, pushed its way into Emma's brain. She'd done all she could to forget it, forget what he'd said. He'd been lying--he'd lied about everything else. This had to be a lie, too. And yet. She'd put it off, but she knew she had to tell Julian. He had the right to know. "We have to talk," she said. She felt his heart skip. "Don't say that. I know it's not good." He pulled her tighter against him. "Don't get scared, Emma," he whispered. "Don't let us go because you're frightened." "I am frightened. Not for me, for you. Everything you've done, all the hiding and pretending, to keep the kids together--the situation hasn't changed, Julian. If I hurt any of you-- He kissed her, stemming the tide of words. Despite everything, she felt the kiss all through her body. "I used to read Law books," he said, drawing away from her. "The parts about parabatai. I read them a million times. There's never been a case of a pair of parabatai who fell in love and got caught and were forgiven. Only horror stories. And I can't lose my family. You were right. It would kill me. But the horror stories are about the ones who got caught." He breathed in deep, holding her gaze. "If we're careful, we won't be." She wondered if Julian had pushed himself past some point the night before, a point where the responsibilities that bowed him under seemed insurmountable. It was absolutely unlike Julian to want to break the rules, and though she wanted what he wanted, it unnerved her nonetheless. "We'd have to set rules," he said. "Strict ones. When we could see each other. We'd have to be careful. Much more careful than we have been. No more beach, no more studio. We have to be absolutely sure, every time, that we were somewhere we wouldn't be walked in on." She nodded. "In fact, no talking about it either," she said. "Not in the Institute. Not where someone might hear us." Julian nodded. His pupils were slightly dilated, his eyes the color of an oncoming storm over the ocean. "You're right," he said. "We can't talk here. I'll throw some lunch together for the kids, so they don't keep looking for me. Then meet me down on the beach, okay? You know where." Where I pulled you out of the water. Where this all started. "Okay," she said, after a slight hesitation. "You go first and I'll meet you there. But I still have something I need to tell you." "The important thing is that we stay together, Emma. That's what matters --" She raised herself up on her tiptoes and kissed him. A long, slow, intoxicating kiss that made him groan low in his throat. When she drew away, he was staring at her. "How do people handle these feelings?" He seemed honestly bewildered. "How are they not all over each other all the time if they're, you know, in love?" Emma swallowed against the sudden urge to cry. In love. He hadn't said it before. I love you, Julian Blackthorn, she thought, looking at him there in her room, as he had been a million times before and yet it was completely different now. How could anything be so safe and familiar and yet so terrifying and all-encompassing and new at the same time? She could see the faint pencil scratch markings on the doorframe behind him where they had once recorded their heights each year. They'd stopped doing it when he'd gotten taller than her, and the highest of the marks, now, was far below Julian's head. "I'll see you on the beach,'' she whispered. He hesitated for a moment, then nodded and walked out of the room. There was a strange feeling of foreboding in her chest as she watched him go --how would he react to what Malcolm had told her? Even if he dismissed it as lies, how could you plan a life of hiding and sneaking around as if it were a happy thing? She'd never really understood the point of engagement parties and the like before (though she was happy for Isabelle and Simon) but she got it now: When you were in love you wanted to tell people about it, and that was exactly what they couldn't do. At least she could reassure him, though, that she loved him. That she always would. That no one could take his place. Her thoughts were interrupted by a loud buzzing. Her phone. She padded over to the bureau to pick it up, using her thumb to open the home screen. A text message was displayed there, in bold red letters. EMERGENCY PLEASE COME NOW PLEASE KIT ROOK "Cristina?" Cristina uncurled herself slowly. Her back and legs ached; she'd fallen asleep in the chair beside her bed. She could, she supposed, have curled up on the floor, but it would have been more difficult to keep an eye on Diego that way. The wound to his shoulder had been much worse than she'd thought: a deep cut surrounded by the red blister-burn of dark magic that made healing runes nearly ineffective. She'd cut his bloody gear off him and the shirt under it as well, soaked through with sweat and blood. She'd brought towels and padded the bed under him with them, wetted some of them down to sponge the blood from his face and neck. She'd given him painkilling rune after painkilling rune, healing rune after healing rune. Still, he'd tossed and turned much of the night, his storm- black hair tangled against the pillows. Not since she'd left Mexico had she so clearly and painfully remembered what they had been to each other when they were younger. How much she had loved him. Her heart had felt torn to pieces when he cried out for his brother, pleading with him. Jaime, Jaime, ayudame. Help me. And then he had cried out for her, and that was worse. Cristina, no me dejes. Regresa. Cristina, don't leave me. Come back. I'm here, she'd told him. Estoy aquf, but he hadn't woken up, and his fingers had clawed at the sheets until he'd fallen into an uneasy slumber. She didn't remember how long after that she'd fallen asleep herself. She'd been able to hear the sound of voices from downstairs, and then footsteps in the hall. Emma had ducked in to check on her and Diego, had hugged her and gone to sleep when Cristina had assured her that everything was all right. But there was light streaming through the window now, and Diego was looking at her with eyes clear of pain and fever. "Estas bien?" she whispered, her throat dry. He sat up, and the sheet fell away from him. It was, Cristina thought, rather a sudden reminder that he wasn't wearing a shirt. She focused on the fact that there was a mark on his chest where Malcolm's magic had struck him. It was over his heart, like a marriage rune would be, and it was a more intense violet than a bruise. It was almost the color of Malcolm's eyes. "Yes, I am," he said, sounding a little surprised. "I am all right. Were you with--" He looked down, and for a moment he was very much the little boy Cristina remembered, trailing in Jaime's disastrous wake, weathering trouble and scoldings in quiet silence. "I dreamed you stayed with me." "I did stay with you." She resisted the urge to lean forward and push his hair back. "And everything's all right?" he asked. "I don't remember much after we returned." She nodded. "It worked out surprisingly well." "This is your room?" Diego said, glancing around. His gaze lit on something past her left ear and he smiled. "I remember that." Cristina turned to look. Perched on a shelf by the bed was an arbol de vida, a tree of life--a delicate pottery framework hung all over with ceramic flowers, moons, suns, lions, mermaids, and arrows. The angel Gabriel rested at the bottom, his back against the tree, his shield across his knee. It was one of the few reminders of home she'd brought with her when she left. "You made it," she said. "For my birthday. I was thirteen." He leaned forward, hands on his knees. "Do you miss home, Cristina?" he asked. "Even a little bit?" "Of course I miss it," she said. The line of his back was smooth, unbroken. She remembered digging her nails into his shoulder blades when they kissed. "I miss my family. I miss even the traffic in the D.F.--not that it's much better here. I miss the food, you wouldn't believe what they call Mexican food here. I miss eating jicaletas in the park with you." She remembered lime and chile powder on her hands, a little bit sour and a little bit hot. "I miss you," he said. "Every day I miss you." "Diego . . ." She slid from the chair onto the bed and reached for his right hand. It was broad and warm in hers, and she felt the pressure of his family ring against her hand--both of them wore the ring of the Rosales family, but hers had the pattern of the Mendozas on the inside, and his the Rocios. "You saved my life," she said. "I regret that I was so unforgiving. I should have known better. Should have known you better." "Cristina . . His free hand found her hair, her cheek. His fingertips brushed her skin lightly. He leaned toward her, giving her ample time to back away. She didn't. When his mouth found hers, she tipped her head up for the kiss, her heart expanding with the strange feeling that she was moving toward both her future and her past at the same time. Somewhere, Mark thought. It was somewhere in the house. Julian had told him that he'd boxed up everything in Mark's room and put it into the eastern storage area. It was past time for him to reclaim his old belongings and make his room look like someone lived in it. Which meant he had to find the storage space. Mark would have just asked Julian where it was, but he hadn't been able to find him. Maybe he was hiding himself somewhere, scribbling away on Institute business. It seemed more than strange to Mark that things were going to go back to the way they had been, with Julian running the Institute and the Clave never knowing. Surely there must be some way to help take the burden off his brother. Certainly now that he and Emma knew, it would be easier on Jules. The time had probably come to tell the younger ones too. Silently, Mark vowed he would stand by his brother through that. It was easier to live in truth than a lie, Kieran had always said. Mark flinched at the thought of Kieran and yanked a door open. A music room. Clearly not one that anyone used much--there was a dusty piano, a series of stringed instruments hung on the wall, and a violin case. The violin case, at least, looked polished. Emma's father had played the violin, Mark recalled. The faerie Courts' obsession with those who could play music had kept Mark far away from any interest in melody. "Mark?" He jumped and turned. Ty was behind him, barefoot in a black sweater and dark jeans. The dark colors made him look even thinner. "Hello, Tiberius." Mark liked the long version of his little brother's name. It seemed to suit him and his solemn demeanor. "Were you looking for something?" "I was looking for you," said Ty in his direct way. "I tried last night, but I couldn't find you, and then I fell asleep." "I was saying good-bye to Kieran," said Mark. "Good-bye?" Ty hunched his shoulders up. "Does that mean you're staying here definitely?" Mark couldn't help a smile. "I am. I'm staying here." Ty exhaled a long sigh; it sounded like half relief, half nervousness. "Good," he said. "That's good." "I thought so." "It is," Ty said, as if Mark was being a bit slow, "because you can take over from Julian." "Take over?" Mark stared in puzzlement. "Julian isn't technically the oldest," said Ty. "And even though they'd never put you in charge officially because you're half-faerie, you could still do what Julian does. Look after us, tell us what to do. It doesn't have to be him. It could be you." Mark braced himself against the doorway. Ty was wearing a completely open expression, and there was hope in the back of his pale gray eyes, and Mark felt a wash of panic that nearly made him sick. "Have you said anything about this to Julian?" he demanded. "Have you told him that you were planning on asking me this?" Ty, not catching the half-furious note in Mark's voice, drew his delicate dark brows together. "I think I mentioned it to him." "Ty," Mark said. "You can't just arrange other people's lives like that. What would make you think that this was a good idea?" Ty's eyes darted around the room, resting everywhere but on Mark. "I didn't mean to make you angry. I thought you had a good time that night, in the kitchen, when Julian left you in charge--" "I had a good time. We all had a good time. I also set fire to the stove and covered your little brother in sugar. That's not how things are supposed to be all the time. That's not how--" Mark broke off, leaned back against the wall. He was shaking. "What on earth would make you think I was qualified to be Tavvy's guardian? Or Dru's? You and Livvy, you're older, but that doesn't mean you don't need a parent. Julian's your parent." "Julian's my brother," Ty said, but the words came out strained. "And so are you. You're like me," he added. "We're like each other." "No," Mark said sharply. "We're not. I'm a mess, Ty. I barely know how to live in this world. You're capable. I'm not. You're a whole person--you were raised by someone who loved you, loved you more than his own life, and that's not anything to be grateful for, that's what parents do, but for years, I haven't had that. By the Angel, I barely know how to take care of myself. I certainly can't take care of the rest of you." Ty's lips had gone white. He took a step back, then bolted out into the hallway, his running steps fading. God, Mark thought. What a disaster. What a total disaster. He was already starting to panic. What had he said to Ty? Had he made him feel like a burden? Had he wrecked things with his little brother, hurt Ty in some unfixable way? He was a coward, he thought, cringing from the responsibility that Julian had carried for so many years, panicked at the thought of what could happen to his family in his thoughtless, inexperienced hands. He desperately needed to talk to someone. Not Julian; it would be another burden on him. And Emma couldn't keep a secret from Julian. Livvy would murder him; the others were too young.... Cristina. Cristina always gave him good advice; Cristina's sweet smile calmed his heart. He hurried toward her room. He should have knocked, of course. That was what normal people did. But Mark, who had lived in a world without doors for so many years, put his hand to Cristina's and pushed it open without a thought. Sunlight was streaming through her window. She was sitting up on her bed, propped against the pillows, and Diego, kneeling in front of her, was kissing her. He was holding her head in his hands as if it was something precious, and her black hair was spilling out between his fingers. Neither of them noticed Mark as he froze in the doorway or as he pulled the door shut as silently as he could. He leaned against the wall, shame burning through him. I've misunderstood everything, he thought, wrecked everything. His feelings for Cristina were muddled and strange, but seeing her kiss Diego hurt more than he would have thought. Some of the pain was jealousy. Some was the realization that he had been away from mortal people so long that he no longer understood them. Perhaps he never would. I should have stayed with the Hunt. He slid to the floor, burying his face in his hands. A cloud of dust and wood and plaster rose from the place where the Rooks' floor had been destroyed. Now a fine spray of blood joined it. Kit slid from the chair he'd been standing on and stood stunned. His face was splattered with blood and he could smell it in the room, the hot iron stench of it. My father's blood. The demons were gathered in a circle, tearing at something on the floor. The body of Kit's father. The sound of ripping flesh filled the room. Sickened, Kit felt his stomach lurch--just as the demon who had tumbled down the stairs came screeching back up them. Its eyes, milky bulbs in its spongy head, seemed fixed on Kit. It advanced on him, and he seized up the chair beside him and held it out like a shield. In the back of his mind he was conscious that it probably shouldn't be possible for an untrained fifteen-year-old boy to swing around a heavy piece of oak furniture like it was a toy. But Kit didn't care; he was half-insane with panic and horror. As the demon reared up in front of him, he swung the chair at it, knocking it backward. It surged up and lunged again. Kit feinted but this time a razored foreleg came down, slicing the chair in half. The demon sprang toward him with its teeth bared, and Kit held up the remains of the chair, which shattered in his hands. He was flung backward against the wall. His head hit, hard, and dizziness flooded through him. He saw, through a haze, the praying mantis monster rearing up over him. Make it quick, he thought. For God's sake let me die fast. It descended toward him, mouth open, showing row upon row of teeth and a black gullet that seemed to fill his vision. He raised a hand to ward it off--it was closer, closer--and then it seemed to burst apart. Its head went one way, its body another. Green-black demon blood spattered onto him. He stared upward and through the haze he saw two people standing over him. One was the blond Shadowhunter girl from the Institute, Emma Carstairs. She was brandishing a golden sword, stained with ichor. Beside her was another woman who looked a few years older. She was tall and slender, with long, curling brown hair. Vaguely, he knew he had seen her before--in the Shadow Market? He wasn't sure. "You deal with Kit," said Emma. "I'll take care of the other Mantids." Emma disappeared from the narrow field of Kit's vision. He could see only the other woman. She had a sweet and gentle face, and she looked at him with surprising affection. "I'm Tessa Gray," she said. "Get up, Christopher." Kit blinked. No one ever called him Christopher. No one but his father, when his father was angry. The thought of Johnny stabbed through him, and he stared over at the place where his father's body lay crumpled. To his surprise, there were two people there. A tall man with dark hair, wielding a sword-headed cane, had joined Emma, and the two of them were laying about themselves, slicing the demons to ribbons. Green ichor sprayed into the air like a geyser. "My father," Kit said, licking his dry lips and tasting blood. "He . . ." "You must grieve later. Right now you are in great danger. More of those things may come, and worse things as well." He looked at her through the haze. His mouth tasted bitter. "Are you a Shadowhunter?" "I am not," Tessa Gray said with a surprising firmness. "But you are." She reached her hand down toward him. "Come now," she said. "On your feet, Christopher Herondale. We've been looking for you a long time." "Say something," Emma said. "Please." But the boy in the passenger seat next to her didn't speak. He was looking out the window toward the ocean; they had made it all the way to the coast highway without Kit saying a word. "It's all right," Tessa said from the backseat of the car. Her voice was gentle, but then, her voice was always gentle. "You don't need to speak, Christopher." "No one calls me that," said Kit. Emma jumped a little. Kit spoke in a monotone, staring out the window. She knew he was a little younger than she was, but more from his demeanor than anything else. He was quite tall, and his moves back at his house, fighting the Mantid demons, had been impressive. He wore bloody jeans and a blood-soaked T-shirt that had probably once been blue. The ends of his pale blond hair were sticky with ichor and blood. Emma had known there was trouble the moment she'd arrived at Johnny Rook's. Though the house looked the same, though the door was closed and the windows shuttered and quiet, she'd felt a lack of the magical energy that had been apparent when they'd been there before. She'd glanced back down at the text message on her phone and drawn Cortana. The inside of the house looked as if a bomb had gone off. It was clear the Mantids had come from the ground under the house--demons often traveled beneath the earth to avoid daylight. They had burst up through the floorboards; ichor and blood and sawdust were everywhere. And Mantids. They looked far more grotesque in Johnny Rook's living room than they had on the cliff tops of the Santa Monica Mountains. More insectile, more monstrous. Their razored arms sheered through wood walls, slashed apart furniture and books. Emma swung Cortana. She sliced one Mantid apart; it disappeared with a screech, leaving her view of the room unobstructed. Several of the other Mantids were splashed with red, human blood. They circled the remains of what had been Johnny Rook, in pieces on the floor. Kit. Emma looked around wildly, saw the boy crouching by the stairs. He was unharmed. She started toward him--just as he seized up a chair and smashed it down over a Mantid demon's head. Only training kept Emma from stopping in her tracks. Human children didn't do that. They didn't know how to fend off demons. They didn't have the instinct-- The door behind her blew open, and again only her training kept her from halting in surprise. She managed to sever the head of another Mantid demon, slicking Cortana's blade with ichor, even as Jem Carstairs raced into the room, followed by Tessa. They had plunged into the battle without a word to each other or to Emma, but Emma had exchanged a glance with Jem as they fought, and knew that he wasn't surprised to see her. He looked older than he had in Idris--now closer to twenty-six, more a man than a boy, though Tessa looked just the same. She had the same sweet expression Emma remembered, and the same kind voice. She had looked at Kit with love and sadness when she had gone over to him and held out her hand. Christopher Herondale. "But Kit is short for Christopher, is it not?" Tessa asked now, still gently. Kit said nothing. "Christopher Jonathan Herondale is your true name. And your father was Jonathan, too, right?" Johnny. Jonathan. There were a thousand Shadowhunters named Jonathan. Jonathan Shadowhunter had founded the whole race of Nephilim. It was Jace's name as well. Emma had heard Tessa back at the house, of course, but she still couldn't quite believe it. Not just a Shadowhunter in hiding, but a Herondale. Clary and Jace would need to be told. They would likely come running. "He's a Herondale? Like Jace?" "Jace Herondale," Kit muttered. "My father said he was one of the worst." "One of the worst what?" Jem asked. "Shadowhunters." Kit spat the word. "And I'm not one, by the way. I'd know." "Would you?" Jem's voice was mild. "How?" "None of your business," Kit said. "I know what you're doing. My dad told me you'd kidnap anyone under nineteen with the Sight. Anyone you thought you could make into a Shadowhunter. There's barely any of you left after the Dark War." Emma opened her mouth to mount an indignant protest, but Tessa was already speaking. "Your father said many things that weren't true," she said. "Not to speak ill of the dead, Christopher, but I doubt I am telling you anything you don't already know. And it is one thing to have the Sight. It is another thing to fight off a Mantid demon with no training." "You said you've been looking for him?" Emma asked, as the run- down Topanga Canyon Motel flashed by, its smeared windows dull brown in the sunshine. "Why?" "Because he is a Herondale," said Jem. "And the Carstairs owe the Herondales." A faint shudder went through Emma. Her father had spoken the same words to her, many times. "Years ago, Tobias Herondale was convicted of desertion," said Jem. "He was sentenced to death, but he could not be found, so the sentence was carried out on his wife instead. She was pregnant. A warlock, Catarina Loss, smuggled the baby to safety in the New World." "The sentence was carried out on his pregnant wife?" Kit said. "What is wrong with you people?" "That is screwed up," Emma said, for once in agreement with Kit. "So Kit here is descended from Tobias Herondale?" Tessa nodded. "There is no defense for the Clave's actions. As you know, I was Tessa Herondale once--I knew of Tobias; his story was a legend of horror. But only a few years ago was I told by Catarina of the survival of the child. Jem and I decided to find what had become of the Herondale line. Much searching led us to your father. Kit." "My father's last name was Rook," Kit muttered. "Legally, your family has had several names," said Tessa. "It made it quite hard to find you. I assume your father knew of his Shadowhunter blood and was hiding you from us. Certainly posing out in the open as a mundane with the Sight was clever. He was able to make connections, ward his house, bury his identity. Bury you." Kit spoke in a dull voice. "He used to say I was his biggest secret." Emma turned onto the road to the Institute. "Christopher," said Tessa. "We are not Shadowhunters, Jem and I. We are not the Clave, bent on making you something you do not want to be. But your father had many enemies. Now that he is dead and cannot protect you, they will come after you. You will be safest in the Institute." Kit grunted. He looked neither impressed nor trusting. It was odd, Emma thought, as they pulled up at the end of the road. The only things Kit had in common with his father, looks-wise, were his height and slenderness. As he stepped out of the car, hunching over his bloody shirt, his eyes were a clear blue. His hair, pale gold waves--that was pure Herondale. And his face, too, the fine bones of it, the gracefulness. He was too bloody and scratched and miserable-looking to tell now, but he'd be devastating someday. Kit looked at the Institute, all glass and wood and shining in the afternoon light, with loathing. "Aren't Institutes like jails?" Emma snorted. "They're like big houses. Shadowhunters from all over the world can stay there. They have a million bedrooms. I live in this one." "Whatever." Kit sounded sullen. "I don't want to go in." "You could run away," Tessa said, and for the first time Emma heard the hardness under the gentle tone of her voice. It was a reminder that she and Jace shared some of the same blood. "But you would most likely be eaten by a Mantid demon as soon as the sun set." "I'm not a Shadowhunter," Kit said, getting out of the car. "Stop acting like I am." "Well, there's a quick test for it," said Jem. "Only a Shadowhunter can open the door of the Institute." "The door?" Kit stared at it. He was holding one arm close against his body. Emma's gaze sharpened. With Julian as a parabatai, she had become familiar with the way boys handled themselves when they were trying to conceal an injury. Maybe some of that blood was his. "Kit--" she began. "Let me get this straight," he interrupted. "If I try to open that door and I can't, you'll let me go?" Tessa nodded. Before Emma could say anything else, Kit limped up the stairs. She dashed after him, Tessa and Jem behind her. Kit put his shoulder to the door. He shoved. The door flew open and he half-fell inside, nearly knocking over Tiberius, who had been crossing the entryway. Ty stumbled back and stared at the boy on the floor. Kit was kneeling, his hand clearly cradling his left arm. He was breathing hard as he looked around, taking in the entryway--the marble floor, carved with runes. The swords hanging on the walls. The mural of the Angel and the Mortal Instruments. "It's impossible," he said. "I can't be." Ty's look of astonishment faded. "Are you all right?" "You," Kit said, staring up at Ty. "You pointed a knife at me." Ty looked uncomfortable. He reached up to tug on a lock of his dark hair. "It was just work. Not personal." Kit started to laugh. Still laughing, he sank back onto the floor. Tessa knelt down next to him, putting her hands on his shoulders. Emma couldn't help seeing herself, during the Dark War, breaking down when she realized her parents were dead. Kit looked up at her. His expression was blurry. It was the expression of someone who was using every bit of his willpower not to cry. "A million bedrooms," he said. "What?" Emma said. "You said there were a million bedrooms here," he said, rising to his feet. "I'm going to find an empty one. And then I'm going to lock myself into it. And if anyone tries to break the door down, I'll kill them." "Do you think he'll be all right?" Emma asked. "Kit, I mean?" She was standing on the front steps with Jem, who was cradling Church in his arms. The cat had come running up a few moments after Jem had arrived, and practically launched his small furry body into Jem's arms. Jem was petting him now, rubbing absentmindedly under his chin and around his ears. The cat had gone limp under his ministrations, like a washcloth. The ocean rose and fell at the horizon. Tessa had stepped away from the Institute to make a phone call. Emma could hear her voice in the distance, though not the individual words. "You can help him," said Jem. "You lost your own parents. You know what it's like." "But I don't think--" Emma was alarmed. "If he stays, I don't know--" She thought of Julian, of Uncle Arthur, of Diana, of the secrets they were all hiding. "Can't you stay?" she said, and was surprised at the wistfulness in her voice. Jem smiled at her over Church's head. That smile she remembered from the first time she'd really seen Jem's face, the smile that reminded her, in a way she couldn't have described, of her father. Of the Carstairs blood that they shared. "I would like to stay," he said. "Since we met in Idris, I have missed you, and thought of you often. I would like to visit with you. Spend time with my old violin. But Tessa and I, we must go. We must find Malcolm's body, and the Black Volume, for even leagues underwater a book like that can still cause us trouble." "Do you remember when we met at my parabatai ceremony? You told me you wished you could be watching over me, but there was something you and Tessa had to find. Was that something Kit?" "Yes." Jem set Church down, and the cat wobbled off, purring, in search of a shady spot. Smiling, Jem looked so young, it was impossible for Emma to think of him as an ancestor--even an uncle. "We've been searching for him for years. We narrowed the search to this area, and then finally to the Shadow Market. But Johnny Rook was an expert at hiding." He sighed. "I wish he hadn't been. If he'd trusted us, he might be alive now." He pushed a hand distractedly through his dark hair. A lock of it was silver, the color of aluminum. He was looking over at Tessa, and Emma could see the expression in his eyes when he looked at her. The love that had never dimmed over a century. Love is the weakness of human beings, and the angels despise them for it, and the Clave despises it too, and therefore they punish it. Do you know what happens to parabatai who fall in love? Do you know why it's forbidden? "Malcolm--" she began. Jem turned back toward her, the light of sympathy in his dark eyes. "We heard everything from Magnus. He told us that you were the one who killed Malcolm," he said. "That must have been hard. You knew him. It's not like killing demons." "I knew him," Emma said. "At least, I thought I did." "We knew him too. Tessa was heartbroken to hear that Malcolm believed that we all lied to him. Concealed from him that Annabel was not an Iron Sister, but was dead, murdered by her family. We believed the story, but he died thinking we all knew the truth. What a betrayal that must have felt like." "It's strange to think he was your friend. Though I guess he was our friend too." "People are more than one thing. Warlocks, no less. I would not even hesitate to say that Malcolm once did much good, before he did evil. It is one of the great lessons of growing up, learning that people can do both." "His story--the one about Annabel--such terrible things happened to both of them, just because they fell in love. Malcolm said something-- and I wondered if it was true. It just seemed so strange." Jem looked puzzled. "What was it?" "That the Clave despises love because love is something human beings feel. That that's why they make all those Laws, about people not falling in love with Downworlders or with their parabatai. . . . And the Laws don't make sense. . . ." Emma watched Jem out of the corner of her eye. Was she being too obvious? "The Clave can be awful," he said. "Hidebound and cruel. But some of the things they do are rooted in history. The parabatai Law, for instance." Emma felt as if her body temperature had dropped several degrees. "What do you mean?" "I don't know if I should tell you," said Jem, looking off toward the ocean, and his expression was so somber that Emma felt her heart freeze inside her chest. "That's a secret--a secret even from parabatai themselves-- only a few know: the Silent Brothers, the Consul ... I took a vow." "But you're not a Shadowhunter anymore," Emma said. "The vow doesn't hold." When he said nothing, she pressed on: "You owe me, you know. For not being around." The corner of his mouth flicked up into a smile. "You drive a hard bargain, Emma Carstairs." He drew in a breath. Emma could hear Tessa's voice, faint on the wind. She was saying Jace's name. "The ritual of parabatai was created so that two Shadowhunters could be stronger together than they were apart. It has always been one of our most powerful weapons. Not everyone has a parabatai, but the fact that they exist is part of what makes Nephilim what they are. Without them, we would be infinitely weaker, in ways it is forbidden for me even to explain. Ideally, the ceremony increases each parabatais power--runes given to each other are stronger--and the closer the personal bond, the greater the power." Emma thought of the healing runes she'd drawn on Julian after the arrow poisoning. The way they'd glowed. The Endurance rune he'd given her. How it had behaved like no Endurance rune she'd ever known. "It was not long after the ritual had been in use for some generations," Jem said, lowering his voice, "that it was discovered that if the bond was too close, if it tipped into romantic love--then it would begin to warp and change the kind of power that was generated by the spell. One-sided love, a crush even, all that seems to pass by the rule--but real, requited, romantic love? It had a terrible cost." "They'd lose their power?" Emma guessed. "As Shadowhunters?" "Their power would grow," Jem corrected. "The runes they created would be unlike any others. They would begin to wield magic as warlocks do. But Nephilim are not meant to be magicians. Eventually the power would make them mad, until they became as monsters. They would destroy their families, the others they loved. Death would surround them until eventually they died themselves." Emma felt as if she were choking. "Why don't they tell us that? Why not warn Nephilim, so they know?" "It's power, Emma," said Jem. "Some would have wisely avoided the bond, but many others would have rushed to take advantage of it for the wrong reasons. Power will always attract the greedy and the weak." "I wouldn't want it," Emma said softly. "Not that kind of power." "There is also human nature to take into account," Jem said, and smiled down at Tessa, who was off the phone and coming up the path toward them. "Being told that love is forbidden does not kill love. It strengthens it." "What are you two talking about?" Tessa smiled up at them from the foot of the steps. "Love," Jem said. "How to end it, I suppose." "Oh, if we could end love just by willing it, life would be very different!" Tessa laughed. "It's easier to end someone else's love for you than kill your love for them. Convince them that you don't love them, or that you are someone they cannot respect--ideally both." Her eyes were wide and gray and youthful; it was hard to believe she was older than nineteen. "To change your own heart, that's nearly impossible." There was a shimmer in the air. A Portal suddenly appeared, glowing like a ghost door, just above the ground. It opened, and Emma could see as if she were looking through a keyhole: Magnus Bane stood on the other side of the Portal, and beside him was Alec Lightwood, tall and dark-haired and holding a little boy in a white shirt, with navy-blue skin. Alec looked messy and happy, and the way he held Max reminded Emma of the way Julian used to hold Tavvy. In the middle of raising a hand to greet Emma, Alec paused and turned his head, and said something that sounded like "Raphael." Odd, Emma thought. Alec handed Max over to Magnus and disappeared back into the shadows. "Tessa Gray!" Magnus shouted, leaning out of the Portal as if he were leaning over a balcony. Max cooed and waved. "Jem Carstairs! Time to go!" Someone was walking up the road from the beach. Emma could see only a silhouette. But she knew it was Julian. Julian, coming back from the beach where he had waited for her. She would always know it was Julian. With the courtliness of a generation many years past, Jem bent over her hand in a gentle bow. "If you need me, tell Church," he said, straightening up. "As you've seen, he can always find me. He'll make sure I come to you." Then he turned and strode away toward the Portal. Tessa took his hand and smiled up at him, and a moment later they had stepped through the glowing door. It disappeared with a flash of pale gold light, and Emma, blinking, looked down to where Julian stood staring up at her from the foot of the steps. "Emma?" Julian bounded up the stairs, reaching for her. "Emma, what happened? I waited on the beach--" She drew away from his touch. A flicker of hurt crossed his face, then he glanced around, as if realizing where they were, and nodded. "Come with me," he said in a low voice. Emma followed him, half in a daze, as they circled the Institute to the parking lot. He ducked out past the statues and the small garden, Emma behind him, until they were screened from the building by rows of scrub trees and cactus. He turned so that they stood face-to-face. She could see the worry in his eyes. He reached to cup her cheek in his hand, and she felt her heart thrash against her rib cage. "You can tell me," he said. "Why didn't you come?" In a leaden voice, Emma told him about the panicked message from Kit, how she'd bolted immediately for the car. How after everything that the Institute had been through the day before, she hadn't been able to bear dragging anyone else along with her to Rook's. How Rook felt like her responsibility. How she'd tried to call Julian to tell him where she'd gone, but he hadn't picked up. About the Mantids at Rook's house, Jem and Tessa's arrival, the truth about Kit. Everything but what Jem had said to her about parabatai. "I'm glad you're all right," he said, when she was done. His thumb brushed her cheekbone. "Though I guess if you'd been hurt--I would have known." Emma didn't raise her hands to touch him. They were clenched into fists at her sides. She had done hard things in her life, she thought. Her years of training. Surviving her parents' deaths. Killing Malcolm. But the look on Julian's face--open and trusting--told her that this would be the hardest thing she'd ever done. She reached up and covered his hand with hers. Slowly she intertwined their fingers. Even more slowly, she drew his hand away from her face, trying to quiet the voice inside her head that said. This is the last time he'll ever touch you like this, the last. They were still holding hands, but hers lay stiffly in his, a dead thing. Julian looked puzzled. "Emma--?" "We can't do this," she said, her voice flat and uninflected. "That was what I wanted to tell you, earlier. We can't be together. Not like this." He drew his hand out of hers. "I don't understand. What are you saying?" I'm saying it's too late, she wanted to tell him. I'm saying the Endurance rune you gave me saved my life when Malcolm attacked me. And as grateful as I am, it shouldn't have been able to do that. I'm saying that we're already becoming what Jem was warning me about. I'm saying it isn't a matter of stopping the clock, but of making it run backward. And for that, the clock will need to be broken. "No kissing, no touching, no being in love, no dating, is that clear enough for you?" Julian did not look as if she had hit him. He was a warrior: He could take any bow, and be ready to strike back twice as hard. it was much worse than that. Emma wanted desperately to take back what she'd said, to tell him the truth, but Jem's words echoed in her mind. Being told that it is forbidden does not kill love. It strengthens it. "I don't want to have this kind of relationship," she said. "Hiding, lying, sneaking around. Don't you see? it would poison everything we have, it would kill all the good parts of being parabatai until we weren't even friends anymore." "That doesn't have to be true." He looked sick but determined. "We only have to hide for a little while--only as long as the kids are young enough to need me--" "Tavvy's going to need you for eight more years," said Emma, as coldly as she could. "We can't sneak around for that long." "We could put it on hold--put us on hold--" "I'm not going to wait." She could feel him watching her, feel the weight of his pain. She was glad she could feel it. She deserved to feel it. "I don't believe you." "Why would I say it if it wasn't true? it doesn't exactly paint me in the best light, Jules." "Jules?" He choked on the word. "You're calling me that again? Like we are kids? We're not children, Emma!" "Of course not," she said. "But we're young. We make mistakes. This thing between us, it was a mistake. The risk is too high." The words tasted bitter in her mouth. "The Law--" "There's nothing more important than love," Julian said, in an odd, distant voice, as if he were remembering something he'd been told. "And no Law higher." "That's easy enough to say," Emma said. "It's just that if we're going to take that kind of risk, it should be for a real, lifelong love. And I do care about you, Jules, obviously I do. I even love you. I've loved you my whole life." At least that part was true. "But I don't love you enough. It's not enough." It's easier to end someone else's love for you than kill your love for them. Convince them that you don't love them, or that you are someone they cannot respect. Julian was breathing hard. But his eyes, locked on hers, were steady. "I know you," he said. "I know you, Emma, and you're lying. You're trying to do what you think is right. Trying to push me away to protect me." No, she thought desperately. Don't give me the benefit of the doubt, Julian. This has to work. It has to. "Please don't," she said. "You were right--you and I don't make sense-- Mark and I would make sense--" Hurt bloomed across his face like a wound. Mark, she thought. Mark's name was like the sly elf-bolt he wore, able to pierce Julian's armor. Close, she thought. I'm so close. He almost believes. But Julian was an expert liar. And expert liars could see lies when other people told them. "You're trying to protect the kids, too," he said. "Do you understand, Emma? I know what you're doing, and I love you for it. I love you." "Oh, Jules," she said, in despair. "Don't you see? You're talking about us being together by running away, and I just came from Rook's. I saw Kit and what it means to live in hiding, the cost of it, not just for us, but what if we had kids someday? And we'd have to give up being what we are. I'd have to give up being a Shadowhunter. And it would kill me, Jules. It would just rip me apart." "Then we'll figure out something else," he said. His voice sounded like sandpaper. "Something where we'll still be Shadowhunters. We'll figure it out together." "We won't," she whispered. But his eyes were wide, imploring her to change her mind, to change her words, to put what was breaking back together. "Emma," he said, reaching for her hand. "I will never, never give up on you." It was a strange irony, she thought, a terrible irony that because she loved him so much and knew him so well, she knew exactly what she had to do to destroy everything he felt for her, in a single blow. She pulled away from him and started back toward the house. "Yes," she said. "You will." Emma didn't know quite how long she'd been sitting on her bed. The house was full of noises--she'd heard Arthur shouting something when she first came back inside, and then quiet. Kit had been put in one of the spare rooms, as he'd asked, and Ty was sitting outside of it, reading a book. She'd asked him what he was doing--guarding Kit? Guarding the Institute from Kit?-- but he'd just shrugged. Livvy was in the training room with Dru. Emma could hear their muffled voices through the floor. She wanted Cristina. She wanted the one other person who knew how she felt about Julian, so she could cry in Cristina's arms and Cristina could tell her things were going to be all right, and that she was doing the right thing. Though whether Cristina would ever really think that what she was doing was right, Emma wasn't sure. But she knew in her heart it was necessary. She heard the click of the doorknob turning and closed her eyes. She couldn't stop seeing Julian's face as she'd turned away from him. Jules, she thought. If only you didn't believe In me, this wouldn't be necessary. "Emma?" Mark's voice. He hovered in the doorway, very human-looking in a white henley shirt and jeans. "I just got your message. You wanted to talk?" Emma stood up and smoothed down the dress she'd changed into. A pretty one, with yellow flowers on a brown background. "I need a favor." His pale eyebrows went up. "Favors are no light thing to faeries." "They are no light thing to Shadowhunters, either." She squared her shoulders. "You said you owed me. For taking care of Julian. For saving his life. You said you would do anything." Mark crossed his arms over his chest. She could see black runes on his skin again: at his collar, at his wrists. His skin was already browner than it had been, and there was more muscle on him, now that he was eating. Shadowhunters put it on fast. "Please continue, then," he said. "And if it is a favor in my power to grant, I will grant it." "If Julian asks--" She steadied her voice. "No. Whether he asks or not. I need you to pretend with me that we're dating. That we're falling in love." Mark's arms fell to his sides. "What?" "You heard me," she said. She wished she could read Mark's face. If he protested, she knew that she had no way of forcing him. She could never bring herself to do that. She lacked, ironically, Julian's ruthlessness. "I know it seems strange," she began. "It seems very strange," said Mark. "If you want Julian to think you have a boyfriend, why not ask Cameron Ashdown?" If you and Mark ever... I don't think I could come back from that. "It has to be you," she said. "Anyone would be your boyfriend. You're a beautiful girl. You don't need someone to lie." "This isn't for my ego," Emma snapped. "And I don't want a boyfriend. I want the lie." "You want me to lie just to Julian, or to everyone?" Mark said. His hand was at his throat, tapping against the pulse there. Looking, perhaps, for his elf-bolt necklace, which Emma only now realized was missing. "I suppose everyone will have to believe it," Emma said reluctantly. "We can't ask them all to lie to Julian." "No," Mark said, and his mouth twitched up at the corner. "That would be impractical." "If you're not going to do it, tell me," Emma said. "Or tell me what I can say to convince you. This isn't for me, Mark, this is for Julian. This could well save his life. I can't tell you more than that. I have to ask you to trust me. I've protected him all these years. This--this is part of that." The sun was setting. The room was suffused with a reddish light. It cast a rosy glow over Mark's hair and skin. Emma remembered her twelve-year-old self, how she'd thought Mark was handsome. It hadn't gone so far as a crush, but she could see another past for herself, one where Mark wasn't taken from them. One where he'd been there, and so she'd fallen in love with him and not his brother. One where she'd been Julian's parabatai and married to his brother, and they'd been in each other's lives, bound permanently in every way people could be bound, and it would have been everything they should have wanted. "You want me to tell him, tell everyone, that we are falling in love," he said. "Not that we are in love already?" She flushed. "It needs to be believable." "There is much that you are not telling me." His eyes were bright. He was looking less human and more faerie now, she thought, sizing up the situation, positioning himself within the careful dance of deception. "I assume you will want everyone to know we have kissed. Perhaps done more." She nodded. She could definitely feel her cheeks burning. "I swear to you. I'll explain as much as I can," she said, "if you agree. And I swear it could save Julian's life. I hate to ask you to lie, but--" "But for the ones you love, you'd do anything," he said, and she had no answer to that. He was definitely smiling now, his mouth curved in amusement. She couldn't quite tell if it was human amusement or the amusement of Faerie, which thrived on chaos. "I can see why you chose me. I am here, and close, and it would have been easy for us to begin a relationship. We are neither of us attached to someone else. And you are, as I said, a beautiful girl, and hopefully you don't find me hideous." "No," Emma said. Relief and a thousand other emotions sang through her veins. "Not hideous." "So I suppose I only have one more question," Mark said. "But first--" He turned around, and very deliberately closed her door. When he faced her again, he had never looked to her so much like one of the Fair Folk. His eyes were full of a feral amusement, a carelessness that spoke of a world where there was no human Law. He seemed to bring the wildness of Faerie into the room with him; a cold, sweet magic that was nevertheless bitter at the roots. The storm calls you as it calls me, does it not? He held out a hand to her, half-beckoning, half-offering. "Why lie?" he said. <|startofbook|><|title|>Lord of Shadows <|title|>Chapter 1: Still Waters <|startofchapter|>Kit had only recently found out what a flail was, and now there was a rack of them hanging over his head, shiny and sharp and deadly. He had never seen anything like the weapons room at the Los Angeles Institute before. The walls and floors were white-silver granite, and granite islands rose at intervals throughout the room, making the whole place look like the arms and armor exhibit at a museum. There were staves and maces, cleverly designed walking sticks, necklaces, boots and padded jackets that concealed slim, flat blades for stabbing and throwing. Morning stars covered in terrible spikes, and crossbows of all sizes and types. The granite islands themselves were covered with stacks of gleaming instruments carved out of adamas, the quartz-like substance that Shadowhunters mined from the earth and that they alone knew how to turn into swords and blades and steles. Of more interest to Kit was the shelf that held daggers. It wasn't that he had any particular desire to learn how to use a dagger--nothing beyond the general interest he figured most teenagers had in deadly weapons, but even then, he'd rather be issued a machine gun or a flamethrower. But the daggers were works of art, their hilts inlaid with gold and silver and precious gems--blue sapphires, cabochon rubies, glimmering patterns of thorns etched in platinum and black diamonds. He could think of at least three people at the Shadow Market who'd buy them off him for good money, no questions asked. Maybe four. Kit stripped off the denim jacket he was wearing--he didn't know which of the Blackthorns it had belonged to originally; he'd woken up the morning after he'd come to the Institute to find a freshly laundered pile of clothes at the foot of his bed--and shrugged on a padded jacket. He caught a glimpse of himself in the mirror at the far end of the room. Ragged blond hair, the last of fading bruises on his pale skin. He unzipped the inside pocket of the jacket and began to stuff it with sheathed daggers, picking the ones with the fanciest hilts. The door to the weapons room swung open. Kit dropped the dagger he was holding back onto the shelf and turned around hastily. He thought he'd slipped out of his bedroom without being noticed, but if there was one thing he'd come to realize during his short time at the Institute, it was that Julian Blackthorn noticed everything, and his siblings weren't far behind. But it wasn't Julian. It was a young man Kit hadn't ever seen before, though something about him was familiar. He was tall, with tousled blond hair and a Shadowhunter's build-- broad shoulders, muscular arms, the black lines of the runic Marks they protected themselves with peeking out from the collar and cuffs of his shirt. His eyes were an unusual dark gold color. He wore a heavy silver ring on one finger, as many of the Shadowhunters did. He raised an eyebrow at Kit. "Like weapons, do you?" he said. "They're all right." Kit backed up a little toward one of the tables, hoping the daggers in his inside pocket didn't rattle. The man went over to the shelf Kit had been rifling through and picked up the dagger he'd dropped. "You picked a good one here," he said. "See the inscription on the handle?" Kit didn't. "It was made by one of the descendants of Wayland the Smith, who made Durendal and Cortana." The man spun the dagger between his fingers before setting it back on its shelf. "Nothing as extraordinary as Cortana, but daggers like that will always return to your hand after you throw them. Convenient." Kit cleared his throat. "It must be worth a lot," he said. "I doubt the Blackthorns are looking to sell," said the man dryly. "I'm Jace, by the way. Jace Herondale." He paused. He seemed to be waiting for a reaction, which Kit was determined not to give him. He knew the name Herondale, all right. It felt like it was the only word anyone had said to him in the past two weeks. But that didn't mean he wanted to give the man--Jace--the satisfaction he was clearly looking for. Jace looked unmoved by Kit's silence. "And you're Christopher Herondale." "How do you know that?" Kit said, keeping his voice flat and unenthusiastic. He hated the name Herondale. He hated the word. "Family resemblance," said Jace. "We look alike. In fact, you look like drawings of a lot of Herondales I've seen." He paused. "Also, Emma sent me a cell phone picture of you." Emma. Emma Carstairs had saved Kit's life. They hadn't spoken much since, though--in the wake of the death of Malcolm Fade, the High Warlock of Los Angeles, everything had been in chaos. He hadn't been anyone's first priority, and besides, he had a feeling she thought of him as a little kid. "Fine. I'm Kit Herondale. People keep telling me that, but it doesn't mean anything to me." Kit set his jaw. "I'm a Rook. Kit Rook." "I know what your father told you. But you're a Herondale. And that does mean something." "What? What does it mean?" Kit demanded. Jace leaned back against the wall of the weapons room, just under a display of heavy claymores. Kit hoped one would fall on his head. "I know you're aware of Shadowhunters," he said. "A lot of people are, especially Downworlders and mundanes with the Sight. Which is what you thought you were, correct?" "I never thought I was a mundane," said Kit. Didn't Shadowhunters understand how it sounded when they used that word? Jace ignored him, though. "Shadowhunter society and history--those aren't things most people who aren't Nephilim know about. The Shadowhunter world is made up of families, each of which has a name that they cherish. Each family has a history we pass on to each successive generation. We bear the glories and the burdens of our names, the good and the bad our ancestors have done, through all our lives. We try to live up to our names, so that those who come after us will bear lighter burdens." He crossed his arms over his chest. His wrists were covered in Marks; there was one that looked like an open eye on the back of his left hand. Kit had noticed all Shadowhunters seemed to have that one. "Among Shadowhunters, your last name is deeply meaningful. The Herondales have been a family who have shaped the destinies of Shadowhunters for generations. There aren't many of us left--in fact, everyone thought I was the last. Only Jem and Tessa had faith you existed. They looked for you for a long time." Jem and Tessa. Along with Emma, they had helped Kit escape the demons who had murdered his father. And they had told him a story: the story of a Herondale who had betrayed his friends and fled, starting a new life away from other Nephilim. A new life and a new family line. "I heard about Tobias Herondale," he said. "So I'm the descendant of a big coward." "People are flawed," said Jace. "Not every member of your family is going to be awesome. But when you see Tessa again, and you will, she can tell you about Will Herondale. And James Herondale. And me, of course," he added, modestly. "As far as Shadowhunters go, I'm a pretty big deal. Not to intimidate you." "I don't feel intimidated," said Kit, wondering if this guy was for real. There was a gleam in Jace's eye as he spoke that indicated that he might not take what he was saying all that seriously, but it was hard to be sure. "I feel like I want to be left alone." "I know it's a lot to digest," Jace said. He reached out to clap Kit on the back. "But Clary and I will be here for as long as you need us to--" The clap on the back dislodged one of the daggers in Kit's pocket. It clattered to the ground between them, winking up from the granite floor like an accusing eye. "Right," Jace said into the ensuing silence. "So you're stealing weapons." Kit, who knew the pointlessness of an obvious denial, said nothing. "Okay, look, I know your dad was a crook, but you're a Shadowhunter now and--wait, what else is in that jacket?" Jace demanded. He did something complicated with his left boot that kicked the dagger up into the air. He caught it neatly, the rubies in the hilt scattering light. "Take it off." Silently, Kit shucked off his jacket and threw it down on the table. Jace flipped it over and opened the inside pocket. They both gazed silently at the gleam of blades and precious stones. "So," Jace said. "You were planning on running away, I take it?" "Why should I stay?" Kit exploded. He knew he shouldn't, but he couldn't help it--it was too much: the loss of his father, his hatred of the Institute, the smugness of the Nephilim, their demands that he accept a last name he didn't care about and didn't want to care about. "I don't belong here. You can tell me all this stuff about my name, but it doesn't mean anything to me. I'm Johnny Rook's son. I've been training my whole life to be like my dad, not to be like you. I don't need you. I don't need any of you. All I need is some start-up money, and I can set up my own booth at the Shadow Market." Jace's gold eyes narrowed, and for the first time Kit saw, under the arrogant, joking facade, the gleam of a sharp intelligence. "And sell what? Your dad sold information. It took him years, and a lot of bad magic, to build up those connections. You want to sell your soul like that, so you can scratch out a living on the edges of Downworld? And what about what killed your dad? You saw him die, didn't you?" "Demons--" "Yeah, but somebody sent them. The Guardian might be dead, but that doesn't mean no one's looking for you. You're fifteen years old. You might think you want to die, but trust me --you don't." Kit swallowed. He tried to picture himself standing behind the counter of a booth at the Shadow Market, the way he had for the past few days. But the truth was he'd always been safe at the Market because of his dad. Because people were afraid of Johnny Rook. What would happen to him there without his dad's protection? "But I'm not a Shadowhunter," Kit said. He glanced around the room, at the millions of weapons, the piles of adamas, the gear and body armor and weapon belts. It was ridiculous. He wasn't a ninja. "I wouldn't even know how to start to be one." "Give it another week," Jace said. "Another week here at the Institute. Give yourself a chance. Emma told me how you fought off those demons who killed your dad. Only a Shadowhunter could have done that." Kit barely remembered battling the demons in his father's house, but he knew he'd done it. His body had taken over, and he'd fought, and he'd even, in a small, strange, hidden way, enjoyed it. "This is what you are," said Jace. "You're a Shadowhunter. You're part angel. You have the blood of angels in your veins. You're a Herondale. Which, by the way, means that not only are you part of a stunningly good-looking family, but you're also part of a family that owns a lot of valuable property, including a London town house and a manor in Idris, which you're probably entitled to part of. You know, if you were interested." Kit looked at the ring on Jace's left hand. It was silver, heavy, and looked old. And valuable. "I'm listening." "All I am saying is give it a week. After all"--Jace grinned--"Herondales can't resist a challenge." "A Teuthida demon?" Julian said into the phone, his eyebrows crinkling. "That's basically a squid, right?" The reply was inaudible: Emma could recognize Ty's voice, but not the words. "Yeah, we're at the pier," Julian went on. "We haven't seen anything yet, but we just arrived. Too bad they don't have designated parking spots for Shadowhunters here." Her mind only half on Julian's voice, Emma glanced around. The sun had just gone down. She'd always loved the Santa Monica Pier, since she was a little girl and her parents had taken her there to play air hockey and ride the old-fashioned merry-go-round. She loved the junk food--burgers and milk shakes, fried clams and giant swirled lollipops--and Pacific Park, the run-down amusement park at the very end of the pier, overlooking the Pacific Ocean. The mundanes had poured millions of dollars into revamping the pier into a tourist attraction over the years. Pacific Park was full of new, shiny rides; the old churro carts were gone, replaced by artisanal ice cream and lobster platters. But the boards under Emma's feet were still warped and weathered by years of sun and salt. The air still smelled like sugar and seaweed. The merry-go-round still spilled its mechanical music into the air. There were still coin-toss games where you could win a giant stuffed panda. And there were still dark spaces under the pier, where aimless mundanes gathered and sometimes, more sinister things. That was the thing about being a Shadowhunter, Emma thought, glancing toward the massive Ferris wheel decorated with gleaming LED lights. A line of mundanes eager to get on stretched down the pier; past the railings, she could glimpse the dark blue sea tipped with white where the waves broke. Shadowhunters saw the beauty in the things mundanes created --the lights of the Ferris wheel reflecting off the ocean so brightly that it looked as if someone were setting off fireworks underwater: red, blue, green, purple, and gold--but they saw the darkness, too, the danger and the rot. "What's wrong?" Julian asked. He'd slid his phone into the pocket of his gear jacket. The wind--there was always wind on the pier, the wind that blew ceaselessly off the ocean, smelling of salt and faraway places--lifted the soft waves of his brown hair, made them kiss his cheeks and temples. Dark thoughts, Emma wanted to say. She couldn't, though. Once Julian had been the person she could tell everything. Now he was the one person she couldn't tell anything. Instead she avoided his gaze. "Where are Mark and Cristina?" "Over there." He pointed. "By the ring toss." Emma followed his gaze to the brightly painted stand where people competed to see who could toss a plastic ring and land it around the neck of one of a dozen lined-up bottles. She tried not to feel superior that this was apparently something mundanes found difficult. Julian's half brother, Mark, held three plastic rings in his hand. Cristina, her dark hair caught up in a neat bun, stood beside him, eating caramel corn and laughing. Mark threw the rings: all three at once. Each spiraled out in a different direction and landed around the neck of a bottle. Julian sighed. "So much for being inconspicuous." A mixture of cheers and noises of disbelief went up from the mundanes at the ring toss. Fortunately, there weren't many of them, and Mark was able to collect his prize--something in a plastic bag--and escape with a minimum of fuss. He headed back toward them with Cristina at his side. The tips of his pointed ears peeked through the loops of his light hair, but he was glamoured so that mundanes wouldn't see them. Mark was half-faerie, and his Downworlder blood showed itself in the delicacy of his features, the tips of his ears, and the angularity of his eyes and cheekbones. "So it's a squid demon?" Emma said, mostly just to have something to say to fill the silence between her and Julian. There were a lot of silences between her and Julian these days. It had only been two weeks since everything had changed, but she felt the difference profoundly, in her bones. She felt his distance, though he had never been anything but scrupulously polite and kind ever since she had told him about her and Mark. "Apparently," Julian said. Mark and Cristina had come into earshot; Cristina was finishing her caramel corn and looking sadly into the bag as if hoping more would appear. Emma could relate. Mark, meanwhile, was gazing down at his prize. "It climbs up the side of the pier and snatches people--mostly kids, anyone leaning over the side taking a picture at night. It's been getting braver, though. Apparently someone spotted it inside the game area near the table hockey--is that a goldfish ?" Mark held up his plastic bag. Inside it, a small orange fish swam around in a circle. "This is the best patrol we've ever done," he said. "I have never been awarded a fish before." Emma sighed inwardly. Mark had spent the past few years of his life with the Wild Hunt, the most anarchic and feral of all faeries. They rode across the sky on all manner of enchanted beings--motorcycles, horses, deer, massive snarling dogs--and scavenged battlefields, taking valuables from the bodies of the dead and giving them in tribute to the Faerie Courts. He was adjusting well to being back among his Shadowhunter family, but there were still times when ordinary life seemed to take him by surprise. He noticed now that everyone was looking at him with raised eyebrows. He looked alarmed and placed a tentative arm around Emma's shoulders, holding out the bag in the other hand. "I have won for you a fish, my fair one," he said, and kissed her on the cheek. It was a sweet kiss, gentle and soft, and Mark smelled like he always did: like cold outside air and green growing things. And it made absolute sense, Emma thought, for Mark to assume that everyone was startled because they were waiting for him to give her his prize. She was, after all, his girlfriend. She exchanged a worried glance with Cristina, whose dark eyes had gotten very large. Julian looked as if he were about to throw up blood. It was only a brief look before he schooled his features back into indifference, but Emma drew away from Mark, smiling at him apologetically. "I couldn't keep a fish alive," she said. "I kill plants just by looking at them." "I suspect I would have the same problem," Mark said, eyeing the fish. "It is too bad--I was going to name it Magnus, because it has sparkly scales." At that, Cristina giggled. Magnus Bane was the High Warlock of Brooklyn, and he had a penchant for glitter. "I suppose I had better let him go free," Mark said. Before anyone could say anything, he made his way to the railing of the pier and emptied the bag, fish and all, into the sea. "Does anyone want to tell him that goldfish are freshwater fish and can't survive in the ocean?" said Julian quietly. "Not really," said Cristina. "Did he just kill Magnus?" Emma asked, but before Julian could answer, Mark whirled around. All humor had gone from his expression. "I just saw something scuttle up one of the pilings below the pier. Something very much not human." Emma felt a faint shiver pass over her skin. The demons who made the ocean their habitation were rarely seen on land. Sometimes she had nightmares where the ocean turned itself inside out and vomited its contents onto the beach: spiny, tentacled, slimy, blackened things half-crushed by the weight of water. Within seconds, each of the Shadowhunters had a weapon in hand--Emma was clutching her sword, Cortana, a golden blade given to her by her parents. Julian held a seraph blade, and Cristina her butterfly knife. "Which way did it go?" Julian asked. "Toward the end of the pier," said Mark; he alone had not reached for a weapon, but Emma knew how fast he was. His nickname in the Wild Hunt had been elf-shot, for he was swift and accurate with a bow and arrow or a thrown blade. "Toward the amusement park." "I'll go that way," Emma said. "Try to drive it off the edge of the pier--Mark, Cristina, you go down under, catch it if it tries to crawl back into the water." They barely had time to nod, and Emma was off and running. The wind tugged at her braided hair as she wove through the crowd toward the lighted park at the pier's end. Cortana felt warm and solid in her hand, and her feet flew over the sea-warped wooden slats. She felt free, her worries cast aside, everything in her mind and body focused on the task at hand. She could hear footsteps beside her. She didn't need to look to know it was Jules. His footsteps had been beside hers for all the years she had been a fighting Shadowhunter. His blood had been spilled when hers was. He had saved her life and she had saved his. He was part of her warrior self. "There," she heard him say, but she'd already seen it: a dark, humped shape clambering up the support structure of the Ferris wheel. The carriages continued to rotate around it, the passengers shrieking in delight, unaware. Emma hit the line for the wheel and started shoving her way through it. She and Julian had put glamour runes on before they'd gotten to the pier, and they were invisible to mundane eyes. That didn't mean they couldn't make their presence felt, though. Mundanes in line swore and yelled as she stomped on feet and elbowed her way to the front. A carriage was just swinging down, a couple--a girl eating purple cotton candy and her black-clad, lanky boyfriend--about to climb in. Glancing up, Emma saw a flicker as the Teuthida demon slithered around the top of the wheel support. Swearing, Emma pushed past the couple, nearly knocking them aside, and leaped into the carriage. It was octagonal, a bench running around the inside, with plenty of room to stand. She heard yells of surprise as the carriage rose, lifting her away from the scene of chaos she'd created below, the couple who'd been about to board the wheel yelling at the ticket taker, and the people in line behind them yelling at each other. The carriage rocked under her feet as Julian landed beside her, setting it to swinging. He craned his head up. "Do you see it?" Emma squinted. She had seen the demon, she was sure of that, but it seemed to have vanished. From this angle, the Ferris wheel was a mess of bright lights, spinning spokes, and white-painted iron bars. The two carriages below her and Julian were empty of people; the line must still be sorting itself out. Good, Emma thought. The fewer people who got on the wheel, the better. "Stop." She felt Julian's hand on her arm, turning her around. Her whole body tensed. "Runes," he said shortly, and she realized he was holding his stele in his free hand. Their carriage was still rising. Emma could see the beach below, the dark water spilling up onto the sand, the hills of Palisades Park rising vertically above the highway, crowned with a fringe of trees and greenery. The stars were dim but visible beyond the bright lights of the pier. Julian held her arm neither roughly nor gently, but with a sort of clinical distance. He turned it over, his stele describing quick motions over her wrist, inking runes of protection there, runes of speed and agility and enhanced hearing. This was the closest Emma had been to Jules in two weeks. She felt dizzy from it, a little drunk. His head was bent, his eyes fixed on the task at hand, and she took the opportunity to absorb the sight of him. The lights of the wheel had turned amber and yellow; they powdered his tanned skin with gold. His hair fell in loose, fine waves over his forehead. She knew the way the skin by the corners of his mouth was soft, and the way his shoulders felt under her hands, strong and hard and vibrant. His lashes were long and thick, so dark that they seemed to have been charcoaled; she half expected them to leave a dusting of black powder on the tops of his cheekbones when he blinked. He was beautiful. He had always been beautiful, but she had noticed it too late. And now she stood with her hands at her sides and her body aching because she couldn't touch him. She could never touch him again. He finished what he was doing and spun the stele around so the handle was toward her. She took it without a word as he pulled aside the collar of his shirt, under his gear jacket. The skin there was a shade paler than the tanned skin on his face and hands, scored over and over with the faint white Marks of runes that had been used up and faded away. She had to move a step nearer to Mark him. The runes bloomed under the tip of the stele: agility, night vision. Her head reached just to the level of his chin. She was staring directly at his throat, and saw him swallow. "Just tell me," he said. "Just tell me that he makes you happy. That Mark makes you happy." She jerked her head up. She had finished the runes; he reached to take the stele from her motionless hand. For the first time in what felt like forever, he was looking directly at her, his eyes turned dark blue by the colors of the night sky and the sea, spreading out all around them as they neared the top of the wheel. "I'm happy, Jules," she said. What was one lie among so many others? She had never been someone who lied easily, but she was finding her way. When the safety of people she loved depended on it, she'd found, she could lie. "This is--this is smarter, safer for both of us." The line of his gentle mouth hardened. "That's not--" She gasped. A writhing shape rose up behind him--it was the color of an oil slick, its fringed tentacles clinging to a spoke of the wheel. Its mouth was wide open, a perfect circle ringed with teeth. "Jules!" she shouted, and flung herself from the carriage, catching onto one of the thin iron bars that ran between the spokes. Dangling by one hand, she slashed out with Cortana, catching the Teuthida as it reared back. It yowled, and ichor sprayed; Emma cried out as it splashed her neck, burning her skin. A knife punched into the demon's round, ribbed body. Pulling herself up onto a spoke, Emma glanced down to see Julian poised on the edge of the carriage, another knife already in hand. He sighted down along his arm, let the second knife fly-- It clanged off the bottom of an empty carriage. The Teuthida, incredibly fast, had whipped its way out of sight. Emma could hear it scrabbling downward, along the tangle of metal bars that made up the inside of the wheel. Emma sheathed Cortana and began to crawl along the length of her spoke, heading toward the bottom of the wheel. LED lights exploded around her in purple and gold. There was ichor and blood on her hands, making the descent slippery. Incongruously, the view from the wheel was beautiful, the sea and the sand opening in front of her in all directions, as if she were dangling off the edge of the world. She could taste blood in her mouth, and salt. Below her, she could see Julian, out of the carriage, clambering along a lower spoke. He glanced up at her and pointed; she followed the line of his hand and saw the Teuthida nearly at the wheel's center. Its tentacles were whipping around its body, slamming at the heart of the wheel. Emma could feel the reverberations through her bones. She craned her neck to see what it was doing and went cold--the center of the ride was a massive bolt, holding the wheel onto its structural supports. The Teuthida was yanking at the bolt, trying to rip it free. If the demon succeeded in disengaging it, the whole structure would pull away from its moorings and roll off the pier, like a disconnected bicycle wheel. Emma had no illusions that anyone on the wheel, or near it, would survive. The wheel would crumple in on itself, crushing anyone underneath. Demons thrived on destruction, on the energy of death. It would feast. The Ferris wheel rocked. The Teuthida had its tentacles fastened firmly to the iron bolt at the wheel's heart and was twisting it. Emma redoubled her crawling speed, but she was too far above the wheel's middle. Julian was closer, but she knew the weapons he was carrying: two knives, which he'd already thrown, and seraph blades, which weren't long enough for him to reach the demon. He looked up at her as he stretched his body out along the iron bar, wrapped his left arm around it to anchor himself, and held the other arm out, his hand outstretched. She knew, immediately, without having to wonder, what he was thinking. She breathed in deep and let go of the spoke. She fell, down toward Julian, stretching out her own hand to reach for his. They caught and clasped, and she heard him gasp as he took her weight. She swung forward and down, her left hand locked around his right, and with her other hand she whipped Cortana from its sheath. The weight of her fall carried her forward, swinging her toward the middle of the wheel. The Teuthida demon raised its head as she sailed toward it, and for the first time, she saw its eyes--they were oval, glossed with a protective mirrorlike coating. They almost seemed to widen like human eyes as she whipped Cortana forward, driving it down through the top of the demon's head and into its brain. Its tentacles flailed--a last, dying spasm as its body pulled free of the blade and skittered, rolling along one of the downward-slanted spokes of the wheel. It reached the end and tumbled off. In the distance, Emma thought she heard a splash. But there was no time to wonder. Julian's hand had tightened on hers, and he was pulling her up. She slammed Cortana back into its sheath as he hauled her up, up, onto the spoke where he was lying so that she collapsed awkwardly, half on top of him. He was still clasping her hand, breathing hard. His eyes met hers, just for a second. Around them, the wheel spun, lowering them back down toward the ground. Emma could see crowds of mundanes on the beach, the shimmer of water along the shoreline, even a dark head and a light one that could be Mark and Cristina.... "Good teamwork," Julian said finally. "I know," Emma said, and she did. That was the worst thing: that he was right, that they still worked so perfectly together as parabatai. As warrior partners. As a matched pair of soldiers who could never, ever be parted. Mark and Cristina were waiting for them under the pier. Mark had kicked off his shoes and was partway into the ocean water. Cristina was folding away her butterfly knife. At her feet was a patch of slimy, drying sand. "Did you see the squid thingie fall off the Ferris wheel?" Emma asked as she and Julian drew near. Cristina nodded. "It fell into the shallows. It wasn't quite dead, so Mark dragged it up onto the beach and we finished it off." She kicked at the sand in front of her. "It was very disgusting, and Mark got slime on him." "I've got ichor on me," Emma said, looking down at her stained gear. "That was one messy demon." "You are still very beautiful," Mark said with a gallant smile. Emma smiled back at him, as much as she could. She was unbelievably grateful to Mark, who was playing his part in all this without a word of complaint, though he must have found it strange. In Cristina's opinion, Mark was getting something out of the pretense, but Emma couldn't imagine what. It wasn't as if Mark liked lying--he'd spent so many years among faeries, who were incapable of untruths, that he found it unnatural. Julian had stepped away from them and was on the phone again, speaking in a low voice. Mark splashed up out of the water and jammed his wet feet into his boots. Neither he nor Cristina was fully glamoured, and Emma noticed the stares of mundane passersby as he came toward her--because he was tall, and beautiful, and because he had eyes that shone brighter than the lights of the Ferris wheel. And because one of his eyes was blue, and the other one was gold. And because there was something about him, something indefinably strange, a trace of the wildness of Faerie that never failed to make Emma think of untrammeled, wide-open spaces, of freedom and lawlessness. lama lost boy, his eyes seemed to say. Find me. Reaching Emma, he lifted his hand to push back a lock of her hair. A wave of feeling went through her--sadness and exhilaration, a longing for something, though she didn't know what. "That was Diana," Julian said, and even without looking at him, Emma could picture his face as he spoke--gravity, thoughtfulness, a careful consideration of whatever the situation was. "Jace and Clary have arrived with a message from the Consul. They're holding a meeting at the Institute, and they want us there now." <|title|>Chapter 2: Boundless Floods <|startofchapter|>The four of them went straight through the Institute to the library, without pausing to change their gear. Only when they'd burst into the room and Emma realized she, Mark, Cristina, and Julian had all tracked in sticky demon ichor did she pause to wonder if perhaps they should have stopped to shower. The roof of the library had been damaged two weeks before and hastily repaired, the stained-glass skylight replaced with plain, warded glass, the intricately decorated ceiling now covered over with a layer of rune-carved rowan wood. The wood of rowan trees was protective: It kept out dark magic. It also had an effect on faeries--Emma saw Mark wince and look up sideways as they entered the room. He'd told her proximity to too much rowan made him feel as if his skin were powdered with tiny sparks of fire. She wondered what effect it would have on a full-blood faerie. "Glad to see you made it," said Diana. She was sitting at the head of one of the long library tables, her hair pulled back into a sleek bun. A thick gold chain necklace glittered against her dark skin. Her black-and-white dress was, as always, pristinely spotless and wrinkle free. Beside her was Diego Rocio Rosales, notable to the Clave for being a highly trained Centurion and to the Blackthorns for having the nickname Perfect Diego. He wets irritatingly perfect--ridiculously handsome, a spectacular fighter, smart, and unfailingly polite. He'd also broken Cristina's heart before she had left Mexico, which meant that normally Emma would be plotting his death, but she couldn't because he and Cristina had gotten back together two weeks ago. He cast a smile at Cristina now, his even white teeth flashing. His Centurion pin glittered at his shoulder, the words Primi Ordines visible against the silver. He wasn't just a Centurion; he was one of the First Company, the very best of the graduating class from the Scholomance. Because, of course, he was perfect. Across from Diana and Diego sat two figures who were very familiar to Emma: Jace Herondale and Clary Fairchild, the heads of the New York Institute, though when Emma had met them, they'd been teenagers the age she was now. Jace was all tousled gold handsomeness, looks he'd grown into gracefully over the years. Clary was red hair, stubborn green eyes, and a deceptively delicate face. She had a will like iron, as Emma had good cause to know. Clary jumped to her feet now, her face lighting up, as Jace leaned back in his chair with a smile. "You're back!" she cried, rushing toward Emma. She wore jeans and a threadbare MADE IN BROOKLYN T-shirt that had probably once belonged to her best friend, Simon. It looked worn and soft, exactly like the sort of shirt Emma had often filched from Julian and refused to give back. "How did it go with the squid demon?" Emma was prevented from answering by Clary's enveloping hug. "Great," said Mark. "Really great. They're so full of liquid, squids." He actually seemed pleased about it. Clary let Emma go and frowned down at the ichor, seawater, and unidentifiable slime that had transferred themselves to her shirt. "I see what you mean." "I'm just going to welcome you all from over here," said Jace, waving. "There's a disturbing smell of calamari wafting from your general direction." There was a giggle, quickly stifled. Emma glanced up and saw legs dangling between the railings of the upstairs gallery. With amusement, she recognized Ty's long limbs and Livvy's patterned stockings. There were nooks up on the gallery level that were perfect for eavesdropping--she couldn't count how many of Andrew Blackthorn's meetings she and Julian had spied on as kids, drinking up the knowledge and sense of importance that being present at a Conclave meeting brought. She glanced sideways at Julian, seeing him note Ty and Livvy's presence, knowing the moment he decided, as she had, not to say anything about it. His whole thought process was visible to her in the quirk of his smile--odd how transparent he was to her in his unguarded moments, and how little she could tell what he was thinking when he chose to hide it. Cristina went over to Diego, bumping her hand gently against his shoulder. He kissed her wrist. Emma saw Mark glance at them, his expression unreadable. Mark had talked to her about many things in the past two weeks, but not Cristina. Not ever Cristina. "So how many sea demons does that make it?" asked Diana. "In total?" She gestured for everyone to take seats around the table. They sat down, squelching slightly, Emma next to Mark but across from Julian. He answered Diana as calmly as if he wasn't dripping ichor onto the polished floor. "A few smaller ones this past week," said Julian, "but that's normal when it storms. They wash up on the beach. We ran some patrols; the Ashdowns ran some farther south. I think we got them all." "This was the first really big one," said Emma. "I mean, I've only seen a few that big before. They don't usually come up out of the ocean." Jace and Clary exchanged a look. "Is there something we should know about?" Emma said. "Are you collecting really big sea demons to decorate the Institute or something?" Jace leaned forward, his elbows on the table. He had a calm, catlike face and unreadable amber eyes. Clary had once said that the first time she'd ever seen him, she'd thought he looked like a lion. Emma could see it: Lions seemed so calm and almost lazy until they exploded into action. "Maybe we should talk about why we're here," he said. "I thought you were here about Kit," Julian said. "What with him being a Herondale and all." There was a rustle from upstairs and a faint muttering. Ty had been sleeping in front of Kit's door for the past nights, an odd behavior no one had remarked on. Emma assumed Ty found Kit unusual and interesting in the manner that he sometimes found bees and lizards unusual and interesting. "Partly," said Jace. "We just returned from a Council meeting in Idris. That's why it took us so long to get here, though I wanted to come as fast as possible when I heard about Kit." He sat back and threw an arm over the back of his chair. "You won't be surprised to know there was a great deal of discussion about the Malcolm situation." "You mean the situation where the High Warlock of Los Angeles turned out to be a spree killer and a necromancer?" Julian said. There were layers of implication clear in his voice: The Clave hadn't suspected Malcolm, had approved of his appointment to the post of High Warlock, had done nothing to stop the murders he committed. It had been the Blackthorns who had done that. There was another giggle from above. Diana coughed to hide a smile. "Sorry," she said to Jace and Clary. "I think we have mice." "I didn't hear anything," Jace said. "We're just surprised the Council meeting ended so quickly," Emma said. "We thought we might have to give testimony. About Malcolm, and everything that happened." Emma and the Blackthorns had given testimony in front of the Council before. Years before, after the Dark War. It wasn't an experience Emma was excited to repeat, but it would have been a chance to tell their side of what had happened. To explain why they had worked in cooperation with faeries, in direct contradiction of the Laws of the Cold Peace. Why they had investigated the High Warlock of Los Angeles, Malcolm Fade, without telling the Clave they were doing it; what they had done when they had found him guilty of heinous crimes. Why Emma had killed him. "You already told Robert--the Inquisitor," said Clary. "He believed you. He testified on your behalf." Julian raised an eyebrow. Robert Lightwood, the Inquisitor of the Clave, was not a warm and friendly sort of man. They'd told him what had happened because they'd been forced to, but he wasn't the kind of person you could imagine doing you favors. "Robert's not so bad," Jace said. "Really. He's mellowed since becoming a grandfather. And the fact is, the Clave was actually less interested in you than they were in the Black Volume." "Apparently nobody realized it was ever in the library here," said Clary. "The Cornwall Institute is famous for having a considerably large selection of books on dark magic--the original Malleus Maleficarum, the Daemonatia. Everyone thought it was there, properly locked up." "The Blackthorns used to run the Cornwall Institute," said Julian. "Maybe my father brought it with him when he got the appointment to run the Institute here." He looked troubled. "Though I don't know why he would have wanted it." "Maybe Arthur brought it," suggested Cristina. "He's always been fascinated with ancient books." Emma shook her head. "Can't have. The book had to have been here when Sebastian attacked the Institute--before Arthur came." "How much of the fact that they didn't want us there to testify had to do with them discussing whether I ought to be allowed to stay?" said Mark. "Some," Clary said, meeting his gaze levelly. "But, Mark, we never would have let them make you return to the Hunt. Everyone would have risen up." Diego nodded. "The Clave has deliberated, and they're fine with Mark remaining here with his family. The original order only forbid Shadowhunters from looking for him, but he came to you, so the order hasn't been contravened." Mark nodded stiffly. He had never seemed to like Perfect Diego. "And believe me," Clary added, "they were very happy to use that loophole. I think even the most faerie-hating of them feel for what Mark went through." "But not for what Helen has gone through?" said Julian. "Any word on her return?" "Nothing," said Jace. "I'm sorry. They wouldn't hear of it." Mark's expression tensed. In that moment, Emma could see the warrior in him, the dark shadow of the battlefields the Wild Hunt stalked, the walker among the bodies of the dead. "We'll keep at them," said Diana. "Having you back is a victory, Mark, and we'll press that victory. But right now--" "What's happening right now?" Mark demanded. "Isn't the crisis over?" "We're Shadowhunters," Jace said. "You'll find that the crisis is never over." "Right now," Diana went on, "the Council just finished discussing the fact that large sea demons have been spotted all up and down the coast of California. In record numbers. There have been more seen in the past week than in the past decade. That Teuthida you fought wasn't an outlier." "We think it's because Malcolm's body and the Black Volume are still out there in the ocean," said Clary. "And we think it may be because of the spells Malcolm cast during his life." "But a warlock's spells disappear when they die," protested Emma. She thought of Kit. The wards Malcolm had placed around the Rooks' house had vanished when he died. Demons had attacked within hours. "We went up to his house after he died, to look for evidence of what he'd been doing. The whole thing had disintegrated into a slag heap." Jace had disappeared under the table. He appeared a moment later, holding Church, the Institute's part-time cat. Church had his paws stuck straight out and a look of satisfaction on his face. "We thought the same thing," said Jace, settling the cat on his lap. "But apparently, according to Magnus, there are spells that can be constructed to be activated by a warlock's death." Emma glared at Church. She knew the cat had once lived in the New York Institute, but it seemed rude to show preference so blatantly. The cat was lying on his back on Jace's lap, purring and ignoring her. "Like an alarm," Julian said, "that goes off when you open a door?" "Yes, but in this case, death is the open door," said Diana. "So what's the solution?" asked Emma. "We probably need his body to turn the spell off, so to speak," said Jace. "And a clue as to how he did it would be nice." "The ruins of the convergence have been picked over pretty thoroughly," Clary said. "But we'll check out Malcolm's house tomorrow, just to be sure." "It's rubble," Julian warned. "Rubble that will have to be cleared away soon, before mundanes notice it," said Diana. "There's a glamour on it, but it's temporary. That means the site will only be undisturbed for another few days." "And there's no harm taking a last look," said Jace. "Especially as Magnus has given us some idea what to look for." He rubbed Church's ear but didn't elaborate. "The Black Volume is a powerful necromantic object," said Perfect Diego. "It could be causing disturbances we cannot even imagine. Driving the deepest-dwelling of sea demons to crawl up onto our shores means mundanes are in danger--a few have already disappeared from the Pier." "So," said Jace. "A team of Centurions is going to arrive here tomorrow--" "Centurions?" Panic flashed in Julian's eyes, a look of fear and vulnerability that Emma guessed was visible only to her. It was gone almost instantly. "Why?" Centurions. Elite Shadowhunters, they trained at the Scholomance, a school carved into the rock walls of the Carpathian Mountains, surrounded by an icy lake. They studied esoteric lore and were experts in faeries and the Cold Peace. And also, apparently, sea demons. "This is excellent news," said Perfect Diego. He would say that, Emma thought. Smugly, he touched the pin at his shoulder. "They will be able to find the body and the book." "Hopefully," Clary said. "But you're already here, Clary," said Julian, his voice deceptively mild. "You and Jace--if you brought in Simon and Isabelle and Alec and Magnus, I bet you could find the body right away." He doesn't want strangers here, Emma thought. People who would pry into the Institute's business, demand to talk to Uncle Arthur. He had managed to preserve the Institute's secrets even through everything that had happened with Malcolm. And now they were threatened again by random Centurions. "Clary and I are only stopping by," Jace said. "We can't stay and search, though we'd like to. We're on assignment from the Council." "What kind of assignment?" Emma said. What mission could be more important than retrieving the Black Volume, clearing up the mess Malcolm had made once and for all? But she could tell from the look that Jace and Clary exchanged that there was a world of more important things out there, ones she couldn't imagine. Emma couldn't help a small explosion of bitterness inside, the wish that she were just a bit older, that she could be equal to Jace and Clary, know their secrets and the Council's secrets. "I'm so sorry," Clary said. "We can't say." "So you're not even going to be here?" Emma demanded. "While all this is going on, and our Institute is invaded--" "Emma," Jace said. "We know that you're used to being alone and untroubled here. To having only Arthur to answer to." If only he knew. But that was impossible. He went on, "But the purpose of an Institute is not just to centralize Clave activity, but to house Shadowhunters who must be accommodated in a city they don't live in. There are fifty rooms here that no one is using. So unless there's a pressing reason they can't come..." The words hung in the air. Diego looked down at his hands. He didn't know the full truth about Arthur, but Emma guessed that he suspected. "You can tell us," Clary said. "We'll keep it in the strictest confidence." But it wasn't Emma's secret to tell. She held herself back from looking at Mark or Cristina, Diana or Julian, the only others at the table who knew the truth about who really ran the Institute. A truth that would need to be hidden from the Centurions, who would be duty- bound to report it to the Council. "Uncle Arthur hasn't been well, as I assume you know," Julian said, gesturing toward the empty chair where the Institute's head would normally have sat. "I was concerned the Centurions might worsen his condition, but considering the importance of their mission, we'll make them as comfortable as possible." "Since the Dark War, Arthur has been prone to flare-ups of headaches and pain in his old wounds," added Diana. "I'll run interference between him and the Centurions until he's feeling better." "There's really nothing to worry about," said Diego. "They're Centurions--disciplined, orderly soldiers. They won't be throwing wild parties or making unreasonable demands." He put an arm around Cristina. "I'll be glad to have you meet some of my friends." Cristina smiled back at him. Emma couldn't help but glance toward Mark to see if he was looking at Cristina and Diego the way he often did--a way that made her wonder how Julian could miss it. One day he would notice, and there would be awkward questions to answer. But that day wouldn't be today, because sometime in the past few minutes Mark had slipped soundlessly out of the library. He was gone. Mark associated different rooms in the Institute with different feelings, most of them new since his return. The rowaned library made him tense. The entryway, where he had faced down Sebastian Morgenstern so many years ago, made his skin prickle, his blood heat. In his own room he felt lonely. In the twins' rooms, and Dru's or Tavvy's, he could lose himself in being their older brother. In Emma's room he felt safe. Cristina's room was barred to him. In Julian's room, he felt guilty. And in the training room, he felt like a Shadowhunter. He had made unconsciously for the training room the moment he'd left the library. It was still too much for Mark, the way that Shadowhunters hid their emotions. How could they bear a world where Helen was exiled? He could hardly bear it; he yearned for his sister every day. And yet they all would have looked at him in surprise if he had cried out in grief or fallen to his knees. Jules, he knew, didn't want the Centurions there--but his expression had hardly changed. Faeries could riddle and cheat and scheme, but they did not hide their honest pain. It was enough to send him to the weapons rack, his hands feeling for whatever would let him lose himself in practice. Diana had owned a weapons shop in Idris once, and there was always an impeccable array of beautiful weapons laid out for them to train with: Greek machaera, with their single cutting edges. There were Viking spatha, two-handed claymores and zweihander, and Japanese wooden bokken, used only for training. He thought of the weapons of faerie. The sword he had carried in the Wild Hunt. The fey used nothing made of iron, for weapons and tools of iron made them sick. The sword he had borne in the Hunt had been made of horn, and it had been light in his hand. Light like the elf- bolts he had shot from his bow. Light like the wind under the feet of his horse, like the air around him when he rode. He lifted a claymore from the rack and turned it experimentally in his hand. He could feel that it was made of steel--not quite iron, but an iron alloy--though he didn't have the reaction to iron that full-blooded faeries did. It did feel heavy in his hand. But so much had been feeling heavy since he had returned home. The weight of expectation was heavy. The weight of how much he loved his family was heavy. Even the weight of what he was involved in with Emma was heavy. He trusted Emma. He didn't question that she was doing the right thing; if she believed it, he believed in her. But lies didn't come to him easily, and he hated lying to his family most of all. "Mark?" It was Clary, followed by Jace. The meeting in the library must be over. They had both changed into gear; Clary's red hair was very bright, like a splash of blood against her dark clothes. "I'm here," Mark said, placing the sword he'd been holding back in the rack. The full moon was high, and white light filtered through the windows. The moon traced a path like a road across the sea from where it kissed the horizon to the edge of the beach. Jace hadn't said anything yet; he was watching Mark with hooded golden eyes, like a hawk's. Mark couldn't help but remember Clary and Jace as they had been when he'd met them just after the Hunt had taken him. He'd been hiding in the tunnels near the Seelie Court when they'd come walking toward him, and his heart had ached and broken to see them. Shadowhunters, striding through the dangers of Faerie, heads held high. They were not lost; they were not running. They were not afraid. He had wondered if he would have that pride again, that lack of fear. Even as Jace had pressed a witchlight into his hand, even as he had said, Show them what a Shadowhunter is made of, show them that you aren't afraid, Mark had been sick with fear. Not for himself. For his family. How would they fare in a world at war, without him to protect them? Surprisingly well, had been the answer. They hadn't needed him after all. They'd had Jules. Jace seated himself on a windowsill. He was bigger than he had been the first time Mark had met him, of course. Taller, broader shouldered, though still graceful. Rumor had it that even the Seelie Queen had been impressed by his looks and manner, and faerie gentry were rarely impressed by humans. Even Shadowhunters. Though sometimes they were. Mark supposed his own existence was proof of that. His mother, the Lady Nerissa of the Seelie Court, had loved his Shadowhunter father. "Julian doesn't want the Centurions here," said Jace. "Does he?" Mark looked at them both with suspicion. "I wouldn't know." "Mark won't tell us his brother's secrets, Jace," said Clary. "Would you tell Alec's?" The window behind Jace rose high and clear, so clear Mark sometimes imagined he could fly out of it. "Maybe if it was for his own good," Jace said. Clary made an inelegant doubtful noise. "Mark," she said. "We need your help. We have some questions about Faerie and the Courts--their actual physical layout--and there don't seem to be any answers--not from the Spiral Labyrinth, not from the Scholomance." "And honestly," Jace said, "we don't want to look too much like we're investigating, because this mission is secret." "Your mission is to Faerie?" Mark guessed. They both nodded. Mark was astonished. Shadowhunters had never been comfortable in the actual Lands of Faerie, and since the Cold Peace they'd avoided them like poison. "Why?" He turned quickly from the claymore. "Is this some kind of revenge mission? Because Iarlath and some of the others cooperated with Malcolm? Or--because of what happened to Emma?" Emma still sometimes needed help with the last of her bandages. Every time Mark looked at the red lines crossing her skin, he felt guilt and sickness. They were like a web of bloody threads that kept him bound to the deception they were both perpetrating. Clary's eyes were kind. "We're not planning to hurt anyone," she said. "There's no revenge going on here. This is strictly about information." "You think I'm worried about Kieran," realized Mark. The name lodged in his throat like a piece of snapped-off bone. He had loved Kieran, and Kieran had betrayed him and gone back to the Hunt, and whenever Mark thought about him, it felt as if he were bleeding from someplace inside. "I am not," he said, "worried about Kieran." "Then you wouldn't mind if we talked to him," said Jace. "I wouldn't be worried about him," said Mark. "I might be worried about you." Clary laughed softly. "Thank you, Mark." "He's the son of the Unseelie Court's King," said Mark. "The King has fifty sons. All of them vie for the throne. The King is tired of them. He owed Gwyn a favor, so he gave him Kieran in repayment. Like the gift of a sword or a dog." "As I understand it," said Jace, "Kieran came to you, and offered to help you, against the wishes of the fey. He put himself in grave danger to assist you." Mark supposed he shouldn't be surprised that Jace knew that. Emma often confided in Clary. "He owed me. It was thanks to him that those I love were badly hurt." "Still," said Jace, "there is some chance he might prove amenable to our questions. Especially if we could tell him they were endorsed by you." Mark said nothing. Clary kissed Jace on the cheek and murmured something in his ear before she headed out of the room. Jace watched her go, his expression momentarily soft. Mark felt a sharp stab of envy. He wondered if he would ever be like that with someone: the way they seemed to match, Clary's kind playfulness and Jace's sarcasm and strength. He wondered if he had ever matched with Kieran. If he would have matched with Cristina, had things been different. "What is it you mean to ask Kieran?" he said. "Some questions about the Queen, and about the King," said Jace. Noting Mark's impatient movement, he said, "I'll tell you a little, and remember I should be telling you nothing. The Clave would have my head for this." He sighed. "Sebastian Morgenstern left a weapon with one of the Courts of Faerie," he said. "A weapon that could destroy us all, destroy all Nephilim." "What does the weapon do?" Mark asked. "I don't know. That's part of what we need to find out. But we know it's deadly." Mark nodded. "I think Kieran will help you," he said. "And I can give you a list of names of those in Faerie to look for who might be friendly to your cause, because it will not be a popular one. I do not think you know how much they hate you. If they have a weapon, I hope you find it, because they will not hesitate to use it, and they will have no mercy on you." Jace looked up through golden lashes that were very like Kit's. His gaze was watchful and still. "Mercy on us?" he said. "You're one of us." "That seems to depend on who you ask," Mark said. "Do you have a pen and paper? I'll start with the names...." It had been too long since Uncle Arthur had left the attic room where he slept, ate, and did his work. Julian wrinkled his nose as he and Diana climbed the narrow stairs--the air was staler than usual, rancid with old food and sweat. The shadows were thick. Arthur was a shadow himself, hunched over his desk, a witchlight burning in a dish on the windowsill above. He didn't react to Julian and Diana's presence. "Arthur," Diana said, "we need to speak with you." Arthur turned slowly in his chair. Julian felt his gaze skate over Diana, and then over himself. "Miss Wrayburn," he said, finally. "What can I do for you?" Diana had accompanied Julian on trips to the attic before, but rarely. Now that the truth of their situation was known by Mark and Emma, Julian had been able to acknowledge to Diana what they had always both known but never spoken about. For years, since he was twelve years old, Julian had borne alone the knowledge that his uncle Arthur was mad, his mind shattered during his imprisonment in the Seelie Court. He had periods of lucidity, helped by the medicine Malcolm Fade had provided, but they never lasted long. If the Clave knew the truth, they would have ripped Arthur away from his position as Institute head in moments. It was quite likely he would end up locked in the Basilias, forbidden from leaving or having visitors. In his absence, with no Blackthorn adult to run the Institute, the children would be split up, sent to the Academy in Idris, scattered around the world. Julian's determination to never let that happen had led to five years of secret keeping, five years of hiding Arthur from the world and the world from Arthur. Sometimes he wondered if he was doing the right thing for his uncle. But did it matter? Either way, he would protect his brothers and sisters. He would sacrifice Arthur for them if he had to, and if the moral consequences woke him up in the middle of the night sometimes, panicked and gasping, then he'd live with that. He remembered Kieran's sharp faerie eyes on him: You have a ruthless heart. Maybe it was true. Right now Julian's heart felt dead in his chest, a swollen, beatless lump. Everything seemed to be happening at a slight distance--he even felt as if he were moving more slowly through the world, as if he were pushing his way through water. Still, it was a relief to have Diana with him. Arthur often mistook Julian for his dead father or grandfather, but Diana was no part of his past, and he seemed to have no choice but to recognize her. "The medication that Malcolm made for you," said Diana. "Did he ever speak to you about it? What was in it?" Arthur shook his head slightly. "The boy doesn't know?" Julian knew that meant him. "No," he said. "Malcolm never spoke of it to me." Arthur frowned. "Are there dregs, leftovers, that could be analyzed?" "I used every drop I could find two weeks ago." Julian had drugged his uncle with a powerful cocktail of Malcolm's medicine the last time Jace, Clary, and the Inquisitor had been at the Institute. He hadn't dared take the chance that Arthur would be anything but steady on his feet and as clearheaded as possible. Julian was fairly sure Jace and Clary would cover up Arthur's condition if they knew it. But it was an unfair burden to ask them to bear, and besides--he didn't trust the Inquisitor, Robert Lightwood. He hadn't trusted him since the time five years ago when Robert had forced him to endure a brutal trial by Mortal Sword because he hadn't believed Julian wouldn't lie. "You haven't kept any of it, Arthur?" Diana asked. "Hidden some away?" Arthur shook his head again. In the dim witchlight, he looked old--much older than he was, his hair salted with gray, his eyes washed out like the ocean in the early morning. His body under his straggling gray robe was skinny, the point of his shoulder bone visible through the material. "I didn't know Malcolm would turn out to be what he was," he said. A murderer, a killer, a traitor. "Besides, I depended on the boy." He cleared his throat. "Julian." "I didn't know about Malcolm either," Julian said. "The thing is, we're going to have guests. Centurions." "Kentarchs," murmured Arthur, opening one of his desk drawers as if he meant to search for something inside. "That is what they were called in the Byzantine army. But a centurion was always the pillar of the army. He commanded a hundred men. A centurion could mete out punishment to a Roman citizen that the law usually protected them from. Centurions supersede the law." Julian wasn't sure how much the original Roman centurions and the Centurions of the Scholomance had in common. But he suspected he got his uncle's point anyway. "Right, so that means we're going to have to be especially careful. With how you have to be around them. How you're going to have to act." Arthur put his fingers to his temples. "I'm just so tired," he murmured. "Can we not... If we could ask Malcolm for a bit more medicine..." "Malcolm's dead," Julian said. His uncle had been told, but it didn't seem to have quite sunk in. And it was exactly the sort of mistake he couldn't make around strangers. "There are mundane drugs," said Diana, after a moment's hesitation. "But the Clave," Julian said. "The punishment for seeking out mundane medical treatment is--" "I know what it is," Diana said, surprisingly sharply. "But we're desperate." "But we'd have no idea about what dosage or what pills. We have no idea how mundanes treat sicknesses like this." "I am not ill." Arthur slammed the drawer of the desk shut. "The faeries shattered my mind. I felt it break. No mundane could understand or treat such a thing." Diana exchanged a worried look with Julian. "Well, there are several paths we could go down. We'll leave you alone, Arthur, and discuss them. We know how important your work is." "Yes," Julian's uncle murmured. "My work . . ." And he bent again over his papers, Diana and Julian instantly forgotten. As Julian followed Diana out of the room, he couldn't help but wonder what solace it was that his uncle found in old stories of gods and heroes, of an earlier time of the world, one where plugging your ears and refusing to listen to the sound of the music of sirens could keep you from madness. At the foot of the stairs, Diana turned to Julian and spoke softly. "You'll have to go to the Shadow Market tonight." "What?" Julian was thrown. The Shadow Market was off-limits to Nephilim unless they were on a mission, and always off-limits to underage Shadowhunters. "With you?" Diana shook her head. "I can't go there." Julian didn't ask. It was an unspoken fact between them that Diana had secrets and that Julian could not press her about them. "But there'll be warlocks," she said. "Ones we don't know, ones who'll keep silent for a price. Ones who won't know your face. And faeries. This is a faerie-caused madness after all, not a natural state. Perhaps they would know how to reverse it." She was silent a moment, thinking. "Bring Kit with you," she said. "He knows the Shadow Market better than anyone else we could ask, and Downworlders there trust him." "He's just a kid," Julian objected. "And he hasn't been out of the Institute since his father died." Was killed, actually. Ripped to pieces in front of his eyes. "It could be hard on him." "He'll have to get used to things being hard on him," said Diana, her expression flinty. "He's a Shadowhunter now." <|title|>Chapter 3: Where Dwell the Ghouls <|startofchapter|>Vicious traffic meant it took Julian and Kit an hour to get from Malibu to Old Pasadena. By the time they found parking, Julian had a pounding headache, not helped by the fact that Kit had barely said a word to him since they'd left the Institute. Even so long after sunset, the sky in the west was touched with feather-strokes of crimson and black. The wind was blowing from the east, which meant that even in the middle of the city you could breathe in desert: sand and grit, cactus and coyotes, the burning scent of sage. Kit leaped out of the car the minute Julian turned the engine off, as if he couldn't stand spending another minute next to him. When they'd passed the freeway exit that went to the Rooks' old house, Kit had asked if he could swing by to pick up some of his clothes. Julian had said no, it wasn't safe, especially at night. Kit had looked at him as if Julian had driven a knife into his back. Julian was used to pleading and sulks and protestations that someone hated you. He had four younger siblings. But there was a special artistry to Kit's glaring. He really meant it. Now, as Julian locked the car behind them, Kit made a snorting sound. "You look like a Shadowhunter." Julian glanced down at himself. Jeans, boots, a vintage blazer that had been a gift from Emma. Since glamour runes weren't much use at the Market, he'd had to fall back on pulling down his sleeve to cover his Voyance rune and flipping up his collar to conceal the very edges of Marks that would otherwise have peeked out from his shirt. "What?" he said. "You can't see any Marks." "You don't need to," said Kit, in a bored voice. "You look like a cop. All of you always look like cops." Julian's headache intensified. "And your suggestion?" "Let me go in alone," Kit said. "They know me, they trust me. They'll answer my questions and sell me whatever I want." He held out a hand. "I'll need some money, of course." Julian looked at him in disbelief. "You didn't really think that would work, did you?" Kit shrugged and retracted his hand. "It could've worked." Julian started walking toward the alley that led to the entrance to the Shadow Market. He'd only been there once, years ago, but he remembered it well. Shadow Markets had sprung up in the aftermath of the Cold Peace, a way for Downworlders to do business away from the spotlight of the new Laws. "So, let me guess. Your plan was to take some money from me, pretend you were going to the Shadow Market, and hop a bus out of town?" "Actually, my plan was to take some money from you, pretend I was going to the Shadow Market, and hop on the Metrolink," said Kit. "They have trains that leave this city now. Major development, I know. You should try to keep track of these things." Julian wondered briefly what Jace would do if he strangled Kit. He considered voicing the thought aloud, but they'd reached the end of the alley, where a slight shimmer in the air was visible. He grabbed Kit by the arm, propelling them both through it at the same time. They emerged on the other side into the heart of the Market. Light flared all around them, blotting out the stars overhead. Even the moon seemed a pale shell. Julian was still gripping Kit's arm, but Kit was making no move to run. He was looking around with a wistfulness that made him look young--sometimes it was hard for Julian to remember that Kit was the same age as Ty. His blue eyes--clear and sky-colored, without the green tinge that characterized the Blackthorns' eyes--moved around the Market, taking it in. Rows of booths were lit with torches whose fires blazed gold, blue, and poison green. Trellises of flowers richer and sweeter-smelling than white oleander or jacaranda blossoms cascaded down the sides of stalls. Beautiful faerie girls and boys danced to the music of reeds and pipes. Everywhere were voices clamoring for them to come buy, come buy. Weapons were on display, and jewelry, and vials of potions and powders. "This way," said Kit, pulling his arm out of Julian's grip. Julian followed. He could feel eyes on them, wondered if it was because Kit had been right: He looked like a cop, or the supernatural version, anyway. He was a Shadowhunter, had always been a Shadowhunter. You couldn't shed your nature. They had reached one of the Market's edges, where the light was dimmer, and it was possible to see the white lines painted on the asphalt under them that revealed this place's daytime job as a parking lot. Kit moved toward the closest booth, where a faerie woman sat in front of a sign that advertised fortune-telling and love potions. She looked up with a beaming smile as he approached. "Kit!" she exclaimed. She wore a scrap of a white dress that set off her pale blue skin, and her pointed ears poked through lavender hair. Thin chains of gold and silver dangled around her neck and dripped from her wrists. She glared at Julian. "What is he doing here?" "The Nephilim is all right, Hyacinth," Kit said. "I'll vouch for him. He just wants to buy something." "Doesn't everyone," she murmured. She cast Julian a sly look. "You're a pretty one," she said. "Your eyes are almost the same color as me." Julian moved closer to the booth. It was at times like this he wished he was any good at flirting. He wasn't. He had never in his life felt a flicker of desire for any girl who wasn't Emma, so it was something he'd never learned to do. "I'm seeking a potion to cure madness in a Shadowhunter," he said. "Or at least to stop the symptoms for a while." "What kind of madness?" "He was tormented in the Courts," Julian said bluntly. "His mind was broken by the hallucinations and potions they forced on him." "A Shadowhunter with faerie-caused madness? Oh my," she said, and there was skepticism in her tone. Julian began to explain about Uncle Arthur, without using his name: his situation and his condition. The fact that his lucid periods came and went. The fact that sometimes his moods made him bleak and cruel. That he recognized his family only part of the time. He described the potion Malcolm had made for Arthur, back when they trusted Malcolm and thought he was their friend. Not that he mentioned Malcolm by name. The faerie woman shook her head when he was done. "You should ask a warlock," she said. "They will deal with Shadowhunters. I will not. I have no desire to run afoul of the Courts or the Clave." "No one needs to know about it," said Julian. "I'll pay you well." "Child." There was an edge of pity in her voice. "You think you can keep secrets from all of Downworld? You think the Market hasn't been buzzing with the news of the fall of the Guardian and the death of Johnny Rook? The fact that we now no longer have a High Warlock? The disappearance of Anselm Nightshade--though he was a terrible man--" She shook her head. "You should never have come here," she said. "It's not safe for either of you." Kit looked bewildered. "You mean him," he said, indicating Julian with a tilt of his head. "It's not safe for him." "Not for you, either, baby boy," said a gravelly voice behind them. They both turned. A short man stood in front of them. He was pale, with a flat, sickly cast to his skin. He wore a three-piece gray wool suit, which must have been boiling in the warm weather. His hair and beard were dark and neatly clipped. "Barnabas," said Kit, blinking. Julian noticed Hyacinth shrinking slightly in her booth. A small crowd had gathered behind Barnabas. The short man stepped forward. "Barnabas Hale," he said, holding out a hand. The moment his fingers closed around Julian's, Julian felt his muscles tighten. Only Ty's affinity for lizards and snakes, and the fact that Julian had had to carry them out of the Institute and dump them back in the grass more than once, kept him from pulling his hand away. Barnabas's skin wasn't pale: It was a mesh of overlapping whitish scales. His eyes were yellow, and they looked with amusement on Julian, as if expecting him to jerk his hand away. The scales against Julian's skin were like smooth, cold pebbles; they weren't slimy, but they felt as if they ought to be. Julian held the grip for several long moments before lowering his arm. "You're a warlock," he said. "Never claimed anything different," said Barnabas. "And you're a Shadowhunter." Julian sighed and pulled his sleeve back into place. "I suppose there wasn't much point in trying to disguise it." "None at all," said Barnabas. "Most of us can recognize a Nephilim on sight, and besides, young Mr. Rook has been the talk of the town." He turned his slit-pupilled eyes on Kit. "Sorry to hear about your father." Kit acknowledged this with a slight nod. "Barnabas owns the Shadow Market. At least, he owns the land the Market's on, and he collects the rent for the stalls." "That's true," said Barnabas. "So you'll understand I'm serious when I ask you both to leave." "We're not causing any trouble," said Julian. "We came here to do business." "Nephilim don't 'do business' at Shadow Markets," said Barnabas. "I think you'll find they do," said Julian. "A friend of mine bought some arrows here not that long ago. They turned out to be poisoned. Any ideas about that?" Barnabas jabbed a squat finger at him. "That's what I mean," he said. "You can't turn it off, even if you want to, this thinking you get to ask the questions and make the rules." "They do make the rules," said Kit. "Kit," said Julian out of the side of his mouth. "Not helping." "A friend of mine disappeared the other day," said Barnabas. "Malcolm Fade. Any ideas about that?" There was a low buzz in the crowd behind him. Julian opened and closed his hands at his sides. If he'd been here alone, he wouldn't have been worried--he could have gotten himself out of the crowd easily enough, and back to the car. But with Kit to protect, it would be harder. "See?" Barnabas demanded. "For every secret you think you know, we know another. I know what happened to Malcolm." "Do you know what he did?" Julian asked, carefully controlling his voice. Malcolm had been a murderer, a mass murderer. He'd killed Downworlders as well as mundanes. Surely the Blackthorns couldn't be blamed for his death. "Do you know why it happened?" "I see only another Downworlder, dead at the hands of Nephilim. And Anselm Nightshade, too, imprisoned for a bit of simple magic. What next?" He spat on the ground at his feet. "There might have been a time I tolerated Shadowhunters in the Market. Was willing to take their money. But that time is over." The warlock's gaze skittered to Kit. "Go," he said. "And take your Nephilim friend with you." "He's not my friend," said Kit. "And I'm not like them, I'm like you--" Barnabas was shaking his head. Hyacinth watched, her blue hands steepled under her chin, her eyes wide. "A dark time is coming for Shadowhunters," said Barnabas. "A terrible time. Their power will be crushed, their might thrown down into the dirt, and their blood will run like water through the riverbeds of the world." "That's enough," Julian said sharply. "Stop trying to frighten him." "You will pay for the Cold Peace," said the warlock. "The darkness is coming, and you would be well advised, Christopher Herondale, to stay far away from Institutes and Shadowhunters. Hide as your father did, and his father before him. Only then can you be safe." "How do you know who I am?" Kit demanded. "How do you know my real name?" It was the first time Julian had heard him admit that Herondale wets his real name. "Everyone knows," said Barnabas. "It's all the Market has been buzzing about for days. Didn't you see everyone staring at you when you came in?" So they hadn't been looking at Julian. Or at least not just at Julian. It wasn't much comfort, though, Jules thought, not when Kit had that expression on his face. "I thought I could come back here," Kit said. "Take over my father's stall. Work in the Market." A forked tongue flickered out between Barnabas's lips. "Born a Shadowhunter, always a Shadowhunter," he said. "You cannot wash the taint from your blood. I'm telling you for the last time, boy--leave the Market. And don't come back." Kit backed up, looking around him--seeing, as if for the first time, the faces turned toward him, most blank and unfriendly, many avidly curious. "Kit--" Julian began, reaching out a hand. But Kit had bolted. It took Julian only a few moments to catch up with Kit--the boy hadn't really been trying to run; he'd just been pushing blindly through the crowds, with no destination. He'd fetched up in front of a massive stall that seemed to be in the middle of being torn apart. It was just a bare latticework of boards now. It looked as if someone had ripped it to pieces with their hands. Jagged bits of wood lay scattered around on the blacktop. A sign dangled crookedly from the top of the stall, printed with the words PART SUPERNATURAL? YOU'RE NOT ALONE. THE FOLLOWERS OF THE GUARDIAN WANT YOU TO SIGN UP FOR THE LOTTERY OF FAVOR! LET LUCK INTO YOUR LIFE! "The Guardian," Kit said. "That was Malcolm Fade?" Julian nodded. "He was the one who got my father involved in all that stuff with the Followers and the Midnight Theater," said Kit, his tone almost thoughtful. "It's Malcolm's fault he died." Julian didn't say anything. Johnny Rook hadn't been much of a prize, but he was Kit's father. You only got one father. And Kit wasn't wrong. Kit moved then, slamming his fist as hard as he could into the sign. It clattered to the ground. In the moment before Kit pulled his hand back, wincing, Julian saw a flash of the Shadowhunter in him. If the warlock wasn't already dead, Julian believed sincerely that Kit would have killed Malcolm. A small crowd had followed from Hyacinth's stall, staring. Julian put a hand on Kit's back, and Kit didn't move to shake him off. "Let's go," Julian said. Emma showered carefully--the downside of having your hair long when you were a Shadowhunter was never knowing after a fight if there was ichor in it. Once the back of her neck had been green for a week. When she came out into her bedroom, wearing sweatpants and a tank top and rubbing her hair dry with a green towel, she found Mark curled up at the foot of her bed, reading a copy of Alice's Adventures in Wonderland. He was wearing a pair of cotton pajama bottoms that Emma had bought for three dollars from a vendor on the side of the PCH. He was partial to them as being oddly close in their loose, light material to the sort of trousers he'd worn in Faerie. If it bothered him that they also had a pattern of green shamrocks embroidered with the words GET lucky on them, he didn't show it. He sat up when Emma came in, scrubbing his hands through his hair, and smiled at her. Mark had a smile that could break your heart. It seemed to take up his whole face and brighten his eyes, firing the blue and gold from inside. "A strange evening, forsooth," he said. "Don't you forsooth me." She flopped down on the bed next to him. He wouldn't sleep on the bed, but he didn't seem to mind using the mattress as a sort of giant sofa. He set his book down and leaned back against the footboard. "You know my rules about forsoothing in my room. Also the use of the words 'howbeit,' 'welladay,' and 'alack.'" "What about 'zounds'?" "The punishment for 'zounds' is severe," she told him. "You'll have to run naked into the ocean in front of the Centurions." Mark looked puzzled. "And then?" She sighed. "Sorry, I forgot. Most of us mind being naked in front of strangers. Take my word for it." "Really? You've never swum naked in the ocean?" "That's kind of a different question, but no, I never have." She leaned back beside him. "We should one day," he said. "All of us." "I can't imagine Perfect Diego ripping off all his clothes and leaping into the water in front of us. Maybe just in front of Cristina. Maybe." Mark clambered off the bed and onto the pile of blankets she'd put on the floor for him. "I doubt it. I bet he swims with all his clothes on. Otherwise he'd have to take off his Centurion She laughed and he gave her an answering smile, though he looked tired. She sympathized. It wasn't the normal activities of Shadowhunting that were tiring her out. It was the pretense. Perhaps it made sense that she and Mark could only unwind at night around each other, since there was no one, then, to pretend for. They were the only times she had relaxed since the day Jem had told her about the parabatai curse, how parabatai who fell in love would go insane and destroy themselves and everyone they loved. She'd known immediately: She couldn't let that happen. Not to Julian. Not to his family, who she loved too. She couldn't have stopped herself loving Julian. It was impossible. So she had to make Julian not love her. Julian had given her the key himself, only days before. Words, whispered against her skin in a rare moment of vulnerability: He was jealous of Mark. Jealous that Mark could talk to her, flirt with her, easily, while Julian always had to hide what he felt. Mark was leaning against the footboard beside her now, his eyes half-closed. Crescents of color under his lids, his eyelashes a shade darker than his hair. She remembered asking him to come to her room. I need you to pretend with me that we're dating. That we're falling in love. He'd held out his hand to her, and she'd seen the storm in his eyes. The fierceness that reminded her that Faerie was more than green grass and revels. That it was callous wild cruelty, tears and blood, lightning that slashed the night sky like a knife. Why lie? he'd asked. She'd thought for a moment he'd been asking her, Why do you want to tell this lie? But he hadn't been. He'd been asking, Why lie when we can make it the truth, this thing between us? She'd stood before him, aching all the way down to the floor of her soul, in all the places where she'd ripped Julian away from her as if she'd torn off a limb. They said that men joined the Wild Hunt sometimes when they had sustained a great loss, preferring to howl out their grief to the skies than to suffer in silence in their ordinary gray lives. She remembered soaring through the sky with Mark, his arms around her waist: She had let the wind take her screams of excitement, thrilling to the freedom of the sky where there was no pain, no worry, only forgetfulness. And here was Mark, beautiful in that way that the night sky was beautiful, offering her that same freedom with an outstretched hand. What if I could love Mark? she thought. What if I could make this lie true? Then it would be no lie. If she could love Mark, it would end all the danger. Julian would be safe. She had nodded. Reached her hand out to Mark's. She let herself remember that night in her room, the look in his eyes when he'd asked her, Why lie? She remembered his warm clasp, his fingers circling her wrist. How they had nearly stumbled in their haste to get nearer to each other, colliding almost awkwardly, as if they'd been dancing and had missed a step. She had clasped Mark by the shoulders and stretched up to kiss him. He was wiry from the Hunt, not as muscled as Julian, the bones of his clavicle and shoulders sharp under her hands. But his skin was smooth where she pushed her hands down the neck of his shirt, stroking the top of his spine. And his mouth was warm on hers. He tasted bittersweet and felt hot, as if he had a fever. She instinctively moved closer to him; she hadn't realized she was shivering, but she was. His mouth opened over hers; he explored her lips with his, sending slow waves of heat through her body. He kissed the corner of her mouth, brushed his lips against her jaw, her cheek. He drew back. "Em," he said, looking puzzled. "You taste of salt." She drew her right hand back from its clasp around his neck. Touched her face. It was wet. She'd been crying. He frowned. "I don't understand. You want the world to believe we are a couple, and yet you are weeping as if I have hurt you. Have I hurt you? Julian will never forgive me." The mention of Julian's name almost undid her. She sank down at the foot of her bed, gripping her knees. "Julian has so much to cope with," she said. "I can't have him worrying about me. About my relationship with Cameron." Silently, she apologized to Cameron Ashdown, who really hadn't done anything wrong. "It's not a good relationship," she said. "Not healthy. But every time it ends, I fall back into it again. I need to break that pattern. And I need Julian not to be anxious about it. There's already too much--the Clave will be investigating the fallout from Malcolm's death, our involvement with the Court--" "Hush," he said, sitting down next to her. "I understand." He reached up and pulled the blanket down from her bed. Emma watched him in surprise as he wrapped it around the two of them, tucking it around both their shoulders. She thought of the Wild Hunt then, the way he must have been with Kieran, huddling in shelters, wrapping themselves in their cloaks to block the cold. He traced the line of her cheekbone with his fingers, but it was a friendly gesture. The heat that had been in their kiss was gone. And Emma was glad. It had seemed wrong to feel that, even the shadow of it, with anyone but Julian. "Those who are not faeries find comfort in lies," he said. "I cannot judge that. I will do this with you, Emma. I will not abandon you." She leaned against his shoulder. Relief made her feel light. "You must tell Cristina, though," he added. "She is your best friend; you cannot hide so much from her." Emma nodded. She had always planned to tell Cristina. Cristina was the only one who knew about her feelings for Julian, and she would never for a moment believe that Emma had suddenly fallen in love with Mark instead. She would have to be told for practicality's sake, and Emma was glad. "I can trust her completely," she said. "Now--tell me about the Wild Hunt." He began to speak, weaving a story of a life lived in the clouds and in the deserted and lost places of the world. Hollow cities at the bottom of copper canyons. The shell of Oradour-sur- Glane, where he and Kieran had slept in a half-burned hayloft. Sand and the smell of the ocean in Cyprus, in an empty resort town where trees grew through the floors of abandoned grand hotels. Slowly Emma drifted off to sleep, with Mark holding her and whispering stories. Somewhat to her surprise, he'd come back the next night--it would help make their relationship seem convincing, he'd said, but she'd seen in his eyes that he'd liked the company, just as she had. And so they'd spent every night since then together, sprawled in the covers piled on the floor, trading stories; Emma spoke of the Dark War, of how she felt lost sometimes now that she was no longer searching for the person who'd killed her parents, and Mark talked about his brothers and sisters, about how he and Ty had argued and he worried he'd made his younger brother feel as if he wasn't there to be relied on, as if he might leave at any minute. "Just tell him you might leave, but you'll always come back to him," Emma said. "Tell him you're sorry if you ever made him feel any different." He only nodded. He never told her if he'd taken her advice, but she'd taken his and told Cristina everything. It had been a huge relief, and she'd cried in Cristina's arms for several hours. She'd even gotten Julian's permission to tell Cristina an abbreviated version of the situation with Arthur--enough to make it clear how badly Julian was needed here at the Institute, with his family. She'd asked Julian's permission to share that information; an extremely awkward conversation, but he'd almost seemed relieved that someone else would know. She'd wanted to ask him if he'd tell the rest of the family the truth about Arthur soon. But she couldn't. Walls had gone up around Julian that seemed as impenetrable as the thorns around Sleeping Beauty's castle. She wondered if Mark had noticed, if any of the others had noticed, or if only she could see it. She turned to look at Mark now. He was asleep on the floor, his cheek pillowed on his hand. She slid off the bed, settling among the blankets and pillows, and curled up next to him. Mark slept better when he was with her--he'd said so, and she believed it. He'd been eating better too, putting on muscle fast, his scars fading, color back in his cheeks. She was glad. She might feel like she was dying inside every day, but that was her problem--she'd handle it. No one owed her help, and in a way she welcomed the pain. It meant Julian wasn't suffering alone, even if he believed he was. And if she could help Mark at all, then that was something. She loved him, the way she should love Julian: Uncle Arthur would have called it philia, friendship love. And though she could never tell Julian about the way she and Mark were helping each other, it was at least something she felt she could do for him: make his brother happier. Even if he'd never know. A knock on the door yanked her out of her reverie. She started up; the room was dim, but she could make out bright red hair, Clary's curious face peering around the door's edge. "Emma? Are you awake? Are you on th e floor?" Emma peered down at Mark. He was definitely asleep, huddled in blankets, out of Clary's view. She held up two fingers to Clary, who nodded and shut the door; two minutes later Emma was out in the hallway, zipping up a hoodie. "Is there somewhere we can talk?" Clary said. She was still so small, Emma thought, it was sometimes hard to remember that she was in her twenties. Her hair was caught back in braids, making her seem even younger. "On the roof," Emma decided. "I'll show you." She led Clary up the stairs, to the ladder and trapdoor, and then out to the dark expanse of roof. She hadn't been there herself since the night she'd come up with Mark. It seemed like years ago, though she knew it was only weeks. The day's heat had left the black, shingled roof sticky and hot. But the night was a cool one --desert nights always were, the temperature dropping like a rock as soon as the sun set-- and the breeze off the ocean ruffled Emma's damp hair. She crossed the roof, with Clary following, to her favorite spot: a clear view of the ocean below, the highway folded into the hill below the Institute, mountains rising behind in shadowy peaks. Emma sat down on the roof s edge, knees drawn up, letting the desert air caress her skin, her hair. The moonlight silvered her scars, especially the thick one along the inside of her right forearm. She had gotten it in Idris, when she'd woken up there screaming for her parents, and Julian, knowing what she needed, had put Cortana into her arms. Clary settled herself lightly beside Emma, her head cocked as if she were listening to the breathing roar of the ocean, its soft push-pull. "Well, you've definitely got the New York Institute beat in terms of views. All I can see from the roof there is Brooklyn." She turned toward Emma. "Jem Carstairs and Tessa Gray send their regards." "Are they the ones who told you about Kit?" Emma asked. Jem was a very distant, very old relative of Emma's--though he looked twenty-five, he was more like a hundred and twenty- five. Tessa was his wife, a powerful warlock in her own right. They had uncovered the existence of Kit and his father, just in time for Johnny Rook to be slaughtered by demons. Clary nodded. "They're off on a mission--they wouldn't even tell me what they were looking for." "I thought they were looking for the Black Volume?" "Could be. I know they were headed for the Spiral Labyrinth first." Clary leaned back on her hands. "I know Jem wishes he was around for you. Someone you could talk to. I told him you could always talk to me, but you haven't called since the night after Malcolm died--" "He didn't die. I killed him," Emma interrupted. She kept having to remind herself that she had killed Malcolm, shoved Cortana through his guts, because it seemed so unlikely. And it hurt, the way brushing up suddenly against barbed wire hurt: a surprising pain out of nowhere. Though he had deserved it, it hurt nonetheless. "I shouldn't feel bad, right?" Emma said. "He was a terrible person. I had to do it." "Yes, and yes," said Clary. "But that doesn't always fix things." She reached out and put her finger under Emma's chin, turning Emma's face toward her. "Look, if anyone's going to understand about this, I will. I killed Sebastian. My brother. I put a knife in him." For a moment Clary looked much younger than she was; for a moment, she looked Emma's age. "I still think about it, dream about it. There was good in him--not much, just a tiny bit, but it haunts me. That tiny potential I destroyed." "He was a monster," Emma said, horrified. "A murderer, worse than Valentine, worse than anyone. You had to kill him. If you hadn't, he would have literally destroyed the world." "I know." Clary lowered her hand. "There was never anything like a chance of redemption for Sebastian. But it doesn't stop the dreams, does it? In my dreams, I still sometimes see the brother I might have had, in some other world. The one with green eyes. And you might see the friend you thought you had in Malcolm. When people die, our dreams of what they could be die with them. Even if ours is the hand that ends them." "I thought I would be happy," Emma said. "For all these years, all I've wanted was revenge. Revenge against whoever killed my parents. Now I know what happened to them, and I've killed Malcolm. But what I feel is... empty." "I felt the same way, after the Dark War," Clary said. "I'd spent so much time running and fighting and desperate. And then things were ordinary. I didn't trust it. We get used to living one way, even if it's a bad way or a hard one. When that's gone, there's a hole to fill. It's in our nature to try to fill it with anxieties and fears. It can take time to fill it with good things instead." For a moment, Emma saw through Clary's expression into the past, remembering the girl who'd chased her into a small room in the Gard, refused to leave her alone and grieving, who'd told her, Heroes aren't always the ones who win. They're the ones who lose, sometimes. But they keep fighting, they keep coming hack. They don't give up. That's what makes them heroes. They were words that had carried Emma through some of the worst times of her life. "Clary," she said. "Can I ask you something?" "Sure. Anything." "Nightshade," Emma said. "The vampire, you know--" Clary looked surprised. "The head vampire of L.A. ? The one you guys discovered was using dark magic?" "It was true, right? He really was using illegal magic?" Clary nodded. "Yes, of course. Everything in his restaurant was tested. He certainly was. He wouldn't be in prison now if he hadn't been!" She put a hand lightly atop Emma's. "I know the Clave sucks sometimes," she said. "But there are a lot of people in it who try to be fair. Anselm really was a bad guy." Emma nodded, wordless. It wasn't Anselm she'd been doubting, after all. It was Julian. Clary's mouth curved into a smile. "All right, enough of the boring stuff," she said. "Tell me something fun. You haven't talked about your love life in ages. Are you still dating that Cameron Ashdown guy?" Emma shook her head. "I'm--I'm dating Mark." "Mark?" Clary looked as if Emma had handed her a two-headed lizard. "Mark Blackthorn?" "No, a different Mark. Yes, Mark Blackthorn." A touch of defensiveness crept into Emma's voice. "Why not?" "I just--I never would have pictured you together." Clary looked legitimately stunned. "Well, who did you picture me with? Cameron?" "No, not him." Clary pulled her legs up to her chest and rested her chin on her knees. "That's just the thing," she said. "I--I mean, who I pictured you with, it doesn't make any sense." She met Emma's confused look with a lowering of her eyes. "I guess it was nothing. If you're happy with Mark, I'm happy for you." "Clary, what are you not telling me?" There was a long silence. Clary looked out toward the dark water. Finally she spoke. "Jace asked me to marry him." "Oh!" Emma had already begun opening her arms to hug the other girl when she caught sight of Clary's expression. She froze. "What's wrong?" "I said no." "You said no?" Emma dropped her arms. "But you're here--together--are you not still... ?" Clary rose to her feet. She stood at the roof s edge, looking out toward the sea. "We're still together," she said. "I told Jace I needed more time to think about it. I'm sure he thinks I'm out of my mind, or--well, I don't know what he thinks." "Do you?" Emma asked. "Need more time?" "To decide if I want to marry Jace? No." Clary's voice was tense with an emotion Emma couldn't decipher. "No. I know the answer. Of course I want to. There's never going to be anyone else for me. That's just how it is." Something in the matter-of-factness of her voice sent a slight shiver through Emma. There's never going to he anyone else for me. There was a recognition of kinship in that shiver, and a bit of fear, too. "Then why did you say it?" "I used to have dreams," Clary said. She was staring out at the path the moon left across the dark water, like a slash of white bisecting a black canvas. "When I was your age. Dreams of things that were going to happen, dreams of angels and prophecies. After the Dark War was over, they stopped. I thought they wouldn't start again, but just these past six months, they have." Emma felt a bit lost. "Dreams?" "They're not as clear as they used to be. But there's a sense--a knowing something awful is coming. Like a wall of darkness and blood. A shadow that spreads out over the world and blots out everything." She swallowed. "There's more, though. Not so much an image of something happening, but a knowledge." Emma stood up. She wanted to put a hand on Clary's shoulder, but something held her back. This wasn't Clary, the girl who'd comforted her when her parents had died. This was Clary who'd gone into the demon realm of Edom and killed Sebastian Morgenstern. Clary who'd faced down Raziel. "A knowledge of what?" "That I'm going to die," Clary said. "Not a long time from now. Soon." "Is this about your mission? Do you think something's going to happen to you?" "No--no, nothing like that," Clary said. "It's hard to explain. It's a knowledge that it will happen, but not exactly when, or how." "Everyone's afraid of dying," Emma said. "Everyone isn't," said Clary, "and I'm not, but I am afraid of leaving Jace. I'm afraid of what it would do to him. And I think being married would make it worse. It alters things, being married. It's a promise to stay with someone else. But I couldn't promise to stay for very long --" She looked down. "I realize it sounds ridiculous. But I know what I know." There was a long silence. The sound of the ocean rushed under the quiet between them, and the sound of the wind in the desert. "Have you told him?" Emma asked. "I haven't told anyone but you." Clary turned and looked at Emma anxiously. "I'm asking you for a favor. A huge one." She took a deep breath. "If I do die, I want you to tell them--Jace and the others--that I knew. I knew I was going to die and I wasn't scared. And tell Jace this is why I said no." "I--but why me?" "There isn't anyone else I know I could tell this to without them freaking out or thinking I was having a breakdown and needed a therapist--well, in Simon's case, that's what he'd say." Clary's eyes were suspiciously bright as she said her parabatai's name. "And I trust you, Emma." "I'll do it," Emma said. "And of course you can trust me, I won't tell anyone, but--" "I didn't mean I trusted you to keep it a secret," Clary said. "Though I do. In my dreams, I see you with Cortana in your hand." She stretched upward, nearly on her tiptoes, and kissed Emma on the forehead. It was almost a motherly gesture. "I trust you to always keep fighting, Emma. I trust you not to ever give up." It wasn't until they got back into the car that Kit noticed that his knuckles were bleeding. He hadn't felt the pain when he punched the sign, but he felt it now. Julian, about to start the car, hesitated. "I could heal you," he said. "With an iratze." "A what now?" "A healing rune," said Julian. "It's one of the gentlest. So it would make sense if it was your first." A thousand snide remarks ran through Kit's head, but he was too tired to make them. "Don't poke me with any of your weird little magic wands," he said. "I just want to go"--he almost said home, but stopped himself--"back." As they drove, Kit was silent, looking out the window. The freeway was nearly empty, and stretched ahead of them, gray and deserted. Signs for Crenshaw and Fairfax flashed by. This wasn't the beautiful Los Angeles of mountains and beaches, green lawns and mansions. This was the L.A. of cracked pavement and struggling trees and skies leaden with smog. It had always been Kit's home, but he felt detached as he looked at it now. As if already the Shadowhunters were pulling him away from everything he knew, into their weird orbit. "So what happens to me?" he said suddenly, breaking the silence. "What?" Julian frowned at the traffic in the rearview mirror. Kit could see his eyes, the blue-green of them. It was almost a shocking color, and all the Blackthorns seemed to have it --well, Mark had one--except for Ty. "So Jace is my actual family," Kit said. "But I can't go live with him, because him and his hot girlfriend are going off on some sort of secret mission." "Guess you Herondales have a type," Julian muttered. "What?" "Her name's Clary. But basically, yes. He can't take you in right now, so we'll do it. It's not a problem. Shadowhunters take in Shadowhunters. It's what we do." "You really think that's such a good idea?" Kit said. "I mean, your house is pretty screwed up, what with your agoraphobic uncle and your weird brother." Julian's hands tightened on the wheel, but the only thing he said was, "Ty isn't weird." "I meant Mark," said Kit. There was an odd pause. "Ty isn't weird," Kit added. "He's just autistic." The pause stretched out longer. Kit wondered if he'd offended Julian somehow. "It's not a big deal," he said finally. "Back when I went to mundane school, I knew some kids who were on the spectrum. Ty has some things in common with them." "What spectrum?" Julian said. Kit looked at him in surprise. "You really don't know what I mean?" Julian shook his head. "You may not have noticed this, but we don't involve ourselves much with mundane culture." "It's not mundane culture. It's--" Neurobiology. Science. Medicine. "Don't you have X-rays? Antibiotics?" "No," Julian said. "For minor stuff, like headaches, healing runes work. For major things, the Silent Brothers are our doctors. Mundane medicine is strictly forbidden. But if there's something you think I should know about Ty..." Kit wanted to hate Julian sometimes. He really did. Julian seemed to love rules; he was unbending, annoyingly calm, and as emotionless as everyone had always said Shadowhunters were. Except he wasn't, really. The love that was audible in his voice when he said his brother's name put the he to that. Kit felt a sudden tightness through his body. Talking to Jace earlier had eased some of the anxiety he'd felt ever since his father had died. Jace had made everything seem like maybe it would be easy. That they were still in a world where you could give things chances and see how they worked out. Now, staring at the gray freeway ahead of him, he wondered how he could possibly have thought he could live in a world where everything he knew was considered wrong knowledge to have, where every one of his values--such as they were, having grown up with a father who was nicknamed Rook the Crook--was turned upside down. Where associating with the people his blood said he belonged to meant that the people he'd grown up with would hate him. "Never mind," he said. "I didn't mean anything about Ty. Just meaningless mundane stuff." "I'm sorry, Kit," Julian said. They'd made it to the coast highway now. The water stretched away in the distance, the moon high and round, casting a perfect white path down the center of the sea. "About what happened at the Market." "They hate me now," Kit said. "Everyone I used to know." "No," said Julian. "They're afraid of you. There's a difference." Maybe there was, Kit thought. But right now, he wasn't sure if it mattered. <|title|>Chapter 4: A Wild Weird Clime <|startofchapter|>Cristina stood atop the hill where Malcolm Fade's house had once been, and gazed around at the ruins. Malcolm Fade. She hadn't known him the way the Blackthorns had. He'd been their friend, or so they'd thought, for five years, living only a few miles away in his formidable glass-and- steel home in the dry Malibu hills. Cristina had visited it once before, with Diana, and had been charmed by Malcolm's easy manner and humor. She'd found herself wishing the High Warlock of Mexico City was like Malcolm--young-seeming and charming, rather than a grouchy old woman with bat ears who lived in the Parque Lincoln. Then Malcolm had turned out to be a murderer, and it had all come apart. The lies revealed, their faith in him broken, even Tavvy's safety at risk until they'd managed to get him back and Emma had dispatched Malcolm with a sword to the gut. Cristina could hear cars whizzing by on the highway below. They'd climbed up the side of the hill to get here, and she felt sweaty and itchy. Clary Fairchild was standing atop the rubble of Malcolm's house, wielding an odd-looking object that looked like a cross between a seraph blade and one of those machines mundanes used to find metal hidden under sand. Mark, Julian, and Emma were ranged around different parts of the collapsed house, picking through the metal and glass. Jace had opted to spend the day with Kit in the training room at the Institute. Cristina admired that. She'd been raised to believe nothing was more important than family, and Kit and Jace were the only Shadowhunters of the Herondale bloodline alive in the world. Plus, the boy needed friends--he was an odd little thing, too young to be handsome but with big blue eyes that made you want to trust him even as he was picking your pocket. He had a gleam of mischief about him, a little like Jaime, her childhood best friend, had once had--the sort that could tip over easily into criminality. En que piensas?" asked Diego, coming up behind her. He wore jeans and work boots. Cristina wished it didn't annoy her that he insisted on pinning his Centurion badge even to the sleeve of a completely ordinary black T-shirt. He was very handsome. Much handsomer than Mark, really, if you were being completely objective. His features were more regular, his jaw squarer, his chest and shoulders broader. Cristina shoved aside a few chunks of painted plaster. She and Diego had been assigned the eastern segment of the house, which she was fairly sure had been Malcolm's bedroom and closet. She kept turning up shreds of clothes. "I was thinking of Jaime, actually." "Oh." His dark eyes were sympathetic. "It's all right to miss him. I miss him too." "Then you should talk to him." Cristina knew she sounded short. She couldn't help it. She wasn't sure why Diego was driving her crazy, and not in a good way. Maybe it was that she'd blamed him for betraying her for so long that it was hard to let go of that anger. Maybe it was that no longer blaming him meant more blame laid on Jaime, which seemed unfair, as Jaime wasn't around to defend himself. "I don't know where he is," Diego said. "At all? You don't know where he is in the world or how to contact him?" Somehow Cristina had missed this part. Probably because Diego hadn't mentioned it. "He doesn't want to be bothered by me," said Diego. "All my fire-messages come back blocked. He hasn't talked to our father." Their mother was dead. "Or any of our cousins." "How do you know he's even alive?" Cristina asked, and instantly regretted it. Diego's eyes flashed. "He is my little brother, still," he said. "I would know if he was dead." "Centurion!" It was Clary, gesturing from the top of the hill. Diego began to jog up the ruins toward her without looking back. Cristina was conscious that she'd upset him; guilt spilled through her and she kicked at a heavy chunk of plaster with a bolt of rebar stuck through it like a toothpick. It rolled to the side. She blinked at the object revealed under it, then bent to pick it up. A glove--a man's glove, made of leather, soft as silk but a thousand times tougher. The leather was printed with the image of a golden crown snapped in half. "Mark!" she called. "jNecesito que veas algo!" A moment later she realized she'd been so startled she'd actually called out in Spanish, but it didn't seem to matter. Mark had come leaping nimbly down the stones toward her. He stood just above her, the wind lifting his airy, pale-gold curls away from the slight points of his ears. He looked alarmed. "What is it?" She handed him the glove. "Isn't that the emblem of one of the Faerie Courts?" Mark turned it over in his hands. "The broken crown is the Unseelie King's symbol," he murmured. "He believes himself to be true King of both the Seelie and the Unseelie Courts, and until he rules both, the crown will remain snapped in half." He tilted his head to the side like a bird studying a cat from a safe distance. "But these kind of gloves--Kieran had them when he arrived at the Hunt. They are fine workmanship. Few but the gentry would wear them. In fact, few but the King's sons would wear them." "You don't think this is Kieran's?" Cristina said. Mark shook his head. "His were ... destroyed. In the Hunt. But it does mean that whoever visited Malcolm here, and left this glove, was either high in the Court, or the King himself." Cristina frowned. "It's very odd that it's here." Her hair had escaped from its braids and was blowing in long curls around her face. Mark reached up to tuck one back behind her ear. His fingers skimmed her cheek. His eyes were dreamy, distant. She shivered a little at the intimacy of the gesture. "Mark," she said. "Don't." He dropped his hand. He didn't look angry, the way a lot of boys tended to when asked not to touch a girl. He looked puzzled and a little sad. "Because of Diego?" "And Emma," she said, her voice very low. His puzzlement increased. "But you know that's--" "Mark! Cristina!" It was Emma, calling to them from where she and Julian had joined Diego and Clary. Cristina was grateful not to have to answer Mark; she raced up the pile of rocks and glass, glad her Shadowhunter boots and gear protected her from stray sharp edges. "Did you find something?" she asked as she approached the small group. "Have you ever wanted a really up-close look at a gross tentacle?" Emma asked. "No," said Cristina, drawing closer warily. Clary did appear to have something unpleasantly floppy speared on the end of her odd weapon. It wriggled a bit, showing pink suckers against green, mottled skin. "No one ever seems to say yes to that question," said Emma sadly. "Magnus introduced me to a warlock with tentacles like this once," Clary said. "His name was Marvin." "I assume these aren't Marvin's remains," Julian said. "I'm not sure they're anyone's remains," said Clary. "To command sea demons, you'd need either the Mortal Cup or something like this--a piece of a powerful demon you could enchant. I think we have some definite evidence that Malcolm's death is tied to the recent Teuthida attacks." "Now what?" said Emma, side-eyeing the tentacle. She wasn't a huge fan of the ocean, or the monsters that lived in it, though she'd fight anything or anyone on dry land. "Now we go back to the Institute," said Clary, "and decide what our next step is. Who wants to carry the tentacle?" There were no volunteers. "You've got to be kidding," Kit said. "There's no way I'm jumping off that." "Just consider it." Jace leaned down from a rafter. "It's surprisingly easy." "Give it a try," Emma called. She had come to the training room when they'd gotten back from Malcolm's, curious to see how it was going. She had found Ty and Livvy sitting on the floor, watching as Jace tried to convince Kit to throw a few knives (which he was willing to do) and then to learn jumping and falling (which he wasn't). "My father warned me you people would try to kill me," Kit said. Jace sighed. He was in training gear, balanced on one of the intricate network of rafters that intersected the interior of the training room's pitched roof. They ranged from thirty to twenty feet above the floor. Emma had taught herself to fall from those exact rafters over the years, sometimes breaking bones. A Shadowhunter had to know how to climb--demons were fast and often multi-legged, scurrying up the sides of buildings like spiders. But learning how to fall was just as important. "You can do it," Emma called now. "Yeah? And what happens if I splatter myself all over the floor?" asked Kit. "You get a big state funeral," Emma said. "We put your body in a boat and shove you over a waterfall like a Viking." Kit glared at her. "That's from a movie." She shrugged. "Maybe." Jace, losing patience, launched himself from the highest rafter. He somersaulted gracefully in the air before landing in a soundless crouch. He straightened up and winked at Kit. Emma hid a smile. She'd had a horrendous crush on Jace when she was twelve. Later that had turned into wanting to be Jace--the best there was: the best fighter, the best survivor, the best Shadowhunter. She wasn't there yet, but she wasn't done trying, either. Kit looked impressed despite himself, then scowled again. He looked very slight next to Jace. He was close to the same height as Ty, though less fit. The potential Shadowhunter strength was there, though, in the shape of his arms and shoulders. Emma had seen him fight, when in danger. She knew what he could do. "You'll be able to do that," Jace said, pointing up at the rafter, and then at Kit. "As soon as you want to." Emma could recognize the look in Kit's eye. I might never want to. "What's the Nephilim motto again?" '"We are dust and shadows,"' said Ty, not looking up from his book. "Some of us are very handsome dust," Jace added, as the door flew open and Clary stuck her head in. "Come to the library," she announced. "The tentacle is starting to dissolve." "You drive me wild with your sexy talk," said Jace, pulling on his gear jacket. "Adults," said Kit, with some disgust, and stalked out of the room. To Emma's amusement, Ty and Livvy were instantly on their feet, following him. She wondered what exactly had sparked their interest in Kit--was it just that he was their age? Jace, she imagined, would have put it down to the famous Herondale charisma, though from what she knew, the Herondales who had immediately predated him had been pretty low on the stuff. The library was in a certain amount of chaos. The tentacle was starting to dissolve, into a sticky puddle of green-pink goo that reminded Emma horribly of melted jelly beans. As Diana pointed out, this meant that the time left to identify the demon was shortening quickly. Since Magnus wasn't picking up his phone and no one wanted to involve the Clave, this left good old-fashioned book research. Everyone was handed a pile of fat tomes on sea creatures, and they dispersed to various parts of the library to examine paintings, sketches, drawings, and the occasional clipped-in photo. At some point during the passing hours, Jace decided that they required Chinese food. Apparently kung pao chicken and noodles in black bean sauce were a requirement every time the New York Institute team had to engage in research. He hauled Clary off to an empty office to conjure up a Portal--something no other Shadowhunter besides Clary could do-- promising them all the best Chinese food Manhattan had to deliver. "Got it!" Cristina announced, about twenty minutes after the door had closed behind Jace and Clary. She held up a massive copy of the Carta Marina. The rest of them crowded around the main table as Diana confirmed that the tentacle belonged to the sea demon species Makara, which--according to the sketches between the maps in the Carta Marina --looked like a part-octopus, part-slug thing with an enormous bee head. "The disturbing thing isn't that it's a sea demon," said Diana, frowning. "It's that Makara demon remains only survive on land for one to two days." Jace pushed the library door open. He and Clary were loaded down with green-and-white take-out boxes marked jade wolf. "A little help here?" The research team disbanded briefly to lay out food on the long library tables. There was lo mein, the promised kung pao chicken, mapo tofu, zhajiangmian, egg fried rice, and delicious sesame balls that tasted like hot candy. Everyone had a paper plate, even Tavvy, who was arranging toy soldiers behind a bookcase. Diego and Cristina occupied a love seat, and Jace and Clary were on the floor, sharing noodles. The Blackthorn kids were squabbling over the chicken, except for Mark, who was trying to figure out how to use his chopsticks. Emma guessed they didn't have them in Faerie. Julian sat at the table across from Livvy and Ty, frowning at the nearly dissolved tentacle. Amazingly, it didn't seem to be putting him off his food. "You are friendly with the great Magnus Bane, aren't you?" Diego said to Jace and Clary, after an affable few minutes of everyone chewing. "The great Magnus Bane?" Jace choked on his fried rice. Church had taken up residence at his feet, alert for any evidence of dropped chicken. "We're friendly with him, yes," Clary said, her mouth twitching at the corner. "Why?" Jace was turning purple. Clary thumped him on the back. Church fell asleep, his feet waving in the air. "I would like to interview him," Diego said. "I think he would make a good subject for a paper for the Spiral Labyrinth." "He's pretty busy right now, what with Max and Rafael," said Clary. "I mean, you could ask..." "Who's Rafael?" Livvy asked. "Their second son," said Jace. "They just adopted a little boy in Argentina. A Shadowhunter who lost his parents in the Dark War." "In Buenos Aires!" Emma exclaimed, turning to Julian. "When we saw Magnus at Malcolm's, he said Alec was in Buenos Aires, and that he was going to join him. That must have been what they were doing." Julian just nodded, but didn't look up at her to acknowledge the shared memory. She shouldn't expect him to, Emma reminded herself. Julian wasn't going to be the way she remembered again for a long time, if ever. She felt herself blush, though no one seemed to notice but Cristina, who shot her a look of concern. Diego had his arm around Cristina, but her hands were resting in her lap. She gave Emma a slight wave, more of a finger wiggle. "Maybe we should get back to discussing the matter at hand," Diana said. "If Makara remains only last a day or two on land..." "Then that demon was at Malcolm's house really recently," said Livvy. "Like, well after he died." "Which is odd," Julian said, glancing at the book. "It's a deep-sea demon, pretty deadly and very big. You'd think someone would have noticed it. Plus, it can't possibly have wanted anything from a collapsed house." "Who knows what desires a sea demon might possess?" said Mark. "Assuming it wasn't after Malcolm's collection of elegant tentacle warmers," said Julian, "we have to imagine that it was most likely summoned. Makara demons just don't come up on land. They lurk on the ocean's bottom and sometimes pull ships down." "Another warlock, then?" Jace suggested. "Someone Malcolm was working with?" "Catarina doesn't believe Malcolm worked with anyone else," said Diana. "He was friendly with Magnus, but he was otherwise something of a loner--for obvious reasons, it now appears." "If he was working with another warlock, he wouldn't be likely to advertise the fact, though," said Diego. "It certainly appears Malcolm was determined to cause mischief from beyond the grave if anything happened to him," said Diana. "Well, the tentacle wasn't the only thing we found," Cristina said. "Mark, show them the glove." Emma had already seen it, on their way back from Malcolm's, but she leaned in along with everyone else as Mark drew it from his jacket pocket and laid it on the table. "The sigil of the Unseelie King," said Mark. "A glove such as this is rare. Kieran wore such when he came to the Hunt. I could identify his brothers, sometimes, at revels, by their cloaks and gloves or gauntlets such as these." "So it's odd Malcolm would have one," said Livvy. Emma didn't see Ty beside her; had he gone into the book stacks? "No faerie prince would part with such a thing willingly," said Mark. "Save as a special mark of favor, or to bind a promise." Diana frowned. "We know Malcolm was working with Iarlath." "But he was not a prince. Not even gentry," said Mark. "This would indicate that Malcolm had sworn some kind of a bargain with the Unseelie Court itself." "We know he went to the Unseelie King years ago," said Emma. "It was the Unseelie King who gave him the rhyme he was supposed to use to raise Annabel. 'First the flame and then the flood--'" '"In the end, it's Blackthorn blood,'" Julian finished for her. And it nearly had been. In order to raise Annabel, Malcolm had required the sacrifice and blood of a Blackthorn. He had kidnapped Tavvy and nearly killed him. Just the memory of it made Emma shiver. "But this was not the sigil of the King that long ago," said Mark. "This dates from the beginning of the Cold Peace. Time works differently in Faerie, but--" He shook his head, as if to say not that differently. "I am afraid." Jace and Clary exchanged a look. They were on their way to Faerie, weren't they, to look for a weapon? Emma leaned forward, meaning to ask them what they knew, but before she could get the words out, the Institute doorbell rang, echoing through the house. They all looked at each other, surprised. But it was Tavvy who spoke first, looking up from the corner where he was playing. "Who's here?" If there was one thing Kit was good at, it was slipping out of rooms unnoticed. He'd been doing it all his life, while his father held meetings in the living room with impatient warlocks or jumpy werewolves. So it wasn't too much of a challenge to creep out of the library while everyone else was talking and eating Chinese food. Clary was doing an imitation of someone called the Inquisitor, and everyone was laughing. Kit wondered if it occurred to them that it was weird to endorse a governmental position that sounded like it was all about torture. He'd been in the kitchen a few times before. It was one of the rooms he liked best in the house--homey, with its blue walls and farmhouse sink. The fridge wasn't badly stocked either. He guessed Shadowhunters were probably hungry pretty frequently, considering how often they worked out. He wondered if he'd have to work out all the time too, if he became a Shadowhunter. He wondered if he'd end up with muscles and abs and all that stuff, like Julian and Jace. At the moment, he was more on the skinny side, like Mark. He lifted his T-shirt and gazed at his flat, undefined stomach for a moment. Definitely no abs. He let the shirt fall and grabbed a Tupperware container of cookies out of the fridge. Maybe he could frustrate the Shadowhunters by refusing to work out and sitting around eating carbs. I defy you, Shadowhunters, he thought, thumbing the top off the container and popping a cookie in his mouth. I mock you with my sugar cravings. He let the door of the fridge fall shut, and nearly yelled out loud. Reflexively, he swallowed his cookie and stared. Ty Blackthorn stood in the middle of the kitchen, his headphones dangling around his neck, his hands shoved into his pockets. "Those are pretty good," he said, "but I like the butterscotch ones better." Thoughts of cookie-related rebellion floated out of Kit's head. Despite sleeping in front of his room, Ty had hardly ever spoken to him before. The most he'd probably ever said at once was when he was holding Kit at knifepoint in the Rooks' house, and Kit didn't think that counted as social interaction. Kit set the Tupperware down on the counter. He was once again conscious of the sense that Ty was studying him, maybe counting up his pluses and minuses or something like that. If Ty was someone else, Kit would have tried to catch his eye, but he knew Ty wouldn't look at him directly. It was kind of restful not to worry about it. "You have blood on your hand," Ty said. "I noticed it earlier." "Oh. Right." Kit glanced down at his split knuckles. "I hurt my hand at the Shadow Market." "How?" Ty asked, leaning against the edge of the counter. "I punched a board," Kit said. "I was angry." Ty's eyebrows went up. He had interesting eyebrows, slightly pointed at the tops, like inverted Vs, and very black. "Did it make you feel better?" "No," Kit admitted. "I can fix it," Ty said, taking one of the Shadowhunters' magic pencils out of his jeans pocket. Steles, they were called. He held out his hand. Kit supposed he could have refused to accept the offer, the way he had when Julian had suggested healing him in the car. But he didn't. He held his forearm out trustingly, wrist turned upward so the blue veins were exposed to the boy who'd held a knife to his throat not that long ago. Ty's fingers were cool and careful as he took hold of Kit's arm to steady it. He had long fingers--all the Shadowhunters did, Kit had noticed. Maybe it had something to do with the need to handle a variety of weapons. Kit was caught up enough in wondering about it to only flinch slightly when the stele moved across his forearm, leaving a feeling of heat as if his skin had passed over a candle flame. Ty's head was down. His black hair slanted across his face. He drew the stele back when he was finished, letting go of Kit. "Look at your hand," he said. Kit turned his hand over and watched as the tears over his knuckles sealed themselves together, the red patches turning back to smooth skin. He stared down at the black mark that spread across his forearm. He wondered when it would start fading. It weirded him out, stark evidence that it really was all true. He really was a Shadowhunter. "That is pretty cool," he admitted. "Can you heal literally anything? Like what about diabetes and cancer?" "Some diseases. Not always cancer. My mother died of that." Ty put his stele away. "What about your mother? Was she a Shadowhunter too?" "I don't think so," Kit said. His father had sometimes told him his mother was a Vegas showgirl who'd taken off after Kit was born, but it had occurred to him in the past two weeks that his father might not have been entirely truthful about that. He certainly hadn't been about anything else. "She's dead," he added, not because he thought that was likely the case but because he realized he didn't want to talk about her. "So we both have dead mothers," Ty said. "Do you think you'll want to stay here? And become a Shadowhunter?" Kit started to answer--and stopped, as a sound like a low, sweet bell tolling echoed through the house. "What's that?" Ty raised his head. Kit got a quick flash of the color of his eyes: true gray, that gray that was almost silver. Before he could answer, the kitchen door swung open. It was Livvy, a soda can in her left hand. She looked unsurprised to see Kit and Ty; pushing between them, she jumped up onto the table, crossing her long legs. "The Centurions are here," she said. "Everyone's running around like chickens with their heads cut off. Diana went to welcome them, Julian looks like he wants to kill someone...." "And you want to know if I'll go and spy on them with you," said Ty. "Right?" She nodded. "I'd suggest somewhere that we won't be seen, because if Diana catches us, we'll be making up beds and folding towels for Centurions for the next two hours." That seemed to decide things; Ty nodded and headed for the kitchen door. Livvy jumped off the table and followed him. She paused with a hand on the doorframe, looking back over her shoulder at Kit. "You coming?" He raised his eyebrows. "Are you sure you want me to?" It hadn't occurred to him to invite himself--the twins seemed like such a perfect unit, as if they needed no one but each other. She grinned. He smiled hesitantly back; he was plenty used to girls, even pretty girls, but something about Livvy made him feel nervous. "Sure," she said. "One warning--rude and catty comments about the people we're spying on are required. Members of our family exempted, of course." "If you make Livvy laugh, you get double points," Ty added, from the hallway. "Well, in that case . . ." Kit started after them. What was it Jace had said, after all? Herondales couldn't resist a challenge. Cristina looked with dismay at the group of twenty or so Centurions milling around the massive entryway of the Institute. She'd only had a short time to prepare herself for the idea of meeting Diego's Scholomance friends, and she certainly hadn't planned to do it wearing dusty gear, with her hair in braids. Oh well. She straightened her back. Shadowhunter work was often dirty; surely they wouldn't be expecting her to look pristine. Though, she realized as she glanced around, they certainly did. Their uniforms were like regular gear, but with military-style jackets over them, bright with metal buttons and sashed crossways with a pattern of vine staffs. The back of each jacket bore the symbol of the Centurion's family name: a sandy-haired boy had a wolf on his back, a girl with deep brown skin had a circle of stars. The boys had short hair; the girls wore their hair braided or tied back. They looked clean, efficient, and a little alarming. Diana was chatting with two Centurions by the door to the Sanctuary: a dark-skinned boy with a Primi Ordines insignia, and the boy with the wolf jacket. They turned to wave at Diego as he came down the stairs, followed by Cristina and the others. "I can't believe they're here already," Emma muttered. "Be gracious," said Diana in a low voice, sweeping up to them. Easy for her to say, thought Cristina. She wasn't covered in dust. She took hold of Emma by the wrist, seized Julian with her other hand, and marched them off to mingle with the Centurions, thrusting Julian toward a pretty Indian girl with a gold stud in her nose, and depositing Emma in front of a dark-haired girl and boy--very clearly twins--who regarded her with arched eyebrows. The sight of them made Cristina think of Livvy and Ty, though, and she glanced around to see if they were peering down from the second floor as they often did. If they were, she couldn't see them; they'd probably gone off to hide, and she didn't blame them. Luggage was strewn all around the floor: Someone was going to have to show the Centurions to their rooms, welcome them, figure out how to feed them.... "I didn't realize," Mark said. "Didn't realize what?" Diego said; he had returned the greeting of the two boys who had been talking to Diana earlier. The boys started across the room toward them. "How much like soldiers Centurions look," said Mark. "I suppose I was thinking of them as students." "We are students," Diego said sharply. "Even after we graduate, we remain scholars." The other two Centurions arrived before Mark could say anything else; Diego clapped them both on the back and turned to introduce them. "Manuel, Rayan. This is Cristina and Mark." "Gracias," said the boy with the sandy hair--it was a light brown, streaked and bleached by the sun. He had an easy, sideways grin. "Unplacer conocerte." Cristina gave a little gasp. "You speak Spanish?" "Es mi lengua materna." Manuel laughed. "I was born in Madrid and grew up in the Institute there." He did have what Cristina thought of as a Spanish accent--the softening of the c sound, the way gracias sounded like grathiath when he thanked her. It was charming. Across the room, she saw Dru, holding Tavvy by the hand--they'd asked her to stay in the library and watch him, but she'd wanted to see the Centurions--come up to Emma and tug on her sleeve, whispering something in her ear. Cristina smiled at Manuel. "I almost did my study year in Madrid." "But the beaches are better here." He winked. Out of the corner of her eye, Cristina saw Emma go up to Julian and awkwardly tap his shoulder. She said something to him that made him nod and follow her out of the room. Where were they going? She itched to follow them, not to stay here and make conversation with Diego's friends, even if they were nice. "I wanted the challenge of speaking English all the time--" Cristina began, and saw Manuel's expression change--then Rayan took her sleeve and drew her out of the way as someone hurtled up to Diego and grabbed his arm. It was a white girl, pale and round- cheeked, with thick brown hair pulled back in a tight bun. She crashed into Diego's chest, and he went a sort of watery color, as if all the blood had drained from his face. "Zara?" "Surprise!" The girl kissed his cheek. Cristina was starting to feel a little dizzy. Maybe she'd gotten too much sun out at Malcolm's. But really, it hadn't been that much sun. "I didn't think you were coming," Diego said. He still seemed starkly shocked. Rayan and Manuel were starting to look uncomfortable. "You said--you said you'd be in Hungary--" "Oh, that." Zara dismissed Hungary with a wave. "Turned out to be completely ridiculous. A bunch of Nephilim claiming their steles and seraph blades were malfunctioning; really it was just incompetence. So much more important to be here!" She looped her arm through Diego's and turned to Cristina and Mark, smiling brightly. She had her hand tucked into Diego's elbow, but the smile on her face turned stiff as Cristina and Mark stood in silence, staring, and Diego looked increasingly as if he were going to throw up. "I'm Zara Dearborn," she said, finally, rolling her eyes. "I'm sure you've heard about me. I'm Diego's fiancee." <|title|>Chapter 5: Earth and Heaven <|startofchapter|>Emma led Julian through the building, through hallways familiar to both of them even in the dark. They were silent. Emma's braids swung as she walked. Julian focused on them for a moment, thinking about the thousands of times he'd walked beside Emma on their way out of the Institute, carrying their weapons, laughing and chatting and planning about whatever it was they were going to face. The way his heart always lightened as they stepped out of the Institute, ready to climb into the car, drive fast up the highway, wind in their hair, salt taste on their skin. The memory was like a weight against his chest now as they stepped into the flat, sandy area behind the Institute. Jace and Clary were waiting for them. Both were wearing gear jackets and carrying duffel bags. They were speaking to each other intently, their heads bent together. Their shadows, cast into razor-edged precision by the late afternoon light, seemed to merge together into one. Emma cleared her throat, and the two of them broke apart. "We're sorry to go like this," Clary said, a little awkwardly. "We thought it would be better to avoid questions from the Centurions about our mission." She glanced around. "Where's Kit?" "I think he's with Livvy and Ty," Emma said. "I sent Drusilla to get him." "I'm here." Kit, a blond shadow with his hands in his pockets, shouldered open the Institute's back door. Light-footed, Julian thought. A natural characteristic of Shadowhunters. His father had been a thief and a liar. They were light-footed too. "We have something for you, Christopher," Jace said, unusually somber. "Clary does, at least." "Here." Clary stepped forward and dropped an object that flashed silver into Kit's open hands. "This is a Herondale family ring. This belonged to James Herondale before it was Jace's. James was close with several of the Blackthorns, when he was alive." Kit's face was unreadable. He closed his fingers around the ring and nodded. Clary put her hand against his cheek. It was a motherly sort of gesture, and for a moment, Julian thought he saw vulnerability flash across Kit's features. If the boy had a mother, Julian realized, none of them knew anything about her. "Thanks," Kit said. He slid the ring onto his finger, looking surprised when it fit. Shadowhunter family rings always fit; it was part of their magic. "If you're thinking about selling it," Jace said, "I wouldn't." "Why not?" Kit raised his face; blue eyes looked into gold. The color of their eyes was different, but the framing was the same: the shape of their eyelids, the sharp cheekbones and watchful angles of their faces. "I just wouldn't," said Jace, with heavy emphasis; Kit shrugged, nodded, and vanished back into the Institute. "Were you trying to scare him?" Emma demanded, the moment the door shut behind him. Jace just grinned sideways at her. "Thank Mark for his help," he said, pulling Emma into a hug and ruffling her hair. The next few moments were a flurry of hugs and good-byes, Clary promising to send them a fire-message when she could, Jace making sure they had Alec and Magnus's phone number in case they ran into trouble. No one mentioned that technically, they had the Clave if they ran into trouble. But Clary and Jace had learned to be wary of the Clave when they were young, and it appeared that getting older hadn't dimmed their suspicions. "Remember what I told you on the roof," Clary said to Emma in a low voice, hands on the younger girl's shoulders. "What you promised." Emma nodded, looking uncharacteristically serious. Clary turned away from her, raising her stele, preparing to make a Portal into Faerie. Just as the shapes began to flow under her hands, the doorway starting to shimmer against the dry air, the Institute door banged open again. This time it was Dru, her round face anxious. She was twisting one of her braids around her finger. "Emma, you'd better come," she said. "Something's happened with Cristina." He wasn't going to play their stupid spying game, Kit thought. No matter how much fun the twins seemed to be having, wedged into a corner of the second-floor gallery and looking down onto the main entryway, securely hidden from sight by the railings. Mostly the game involved trying to figure out what people were saying to each other from their body language, or the way they gestured. Livvy was endlessly creative, able to imagine dramatic scenarios between people who were probably just chatting about the weather-- she'd already decided the pretty South Asian girl with the stars on her jacket was in love with Julian, and that two of the other Centurions were secretly spies from the Clave. Ty made rarer pronouncements, but Kit suspected they were more likely to be right. He was good at observing small things, like what family symbol was on the back of someone's jacket, and what that meant about where they were from. "What do you think of Perfect Diego?" Livvy asked Kit, when he returned from saying good-bye to Clary and Jace. She had her knees drawn up, her arms wrapped around her long legs. Her curling ponytail bounced on her shoulders. "Smug bastard," said Kit. "His hair's too good. I don't trust people with hair that good." "I think that girl with her hair in a bun is angry with him," said Ty, leaning closer to the railing. His delicate face was all points and angles. Kit followed his gaze downward and saw Diego, deep in conversation with a pale-skinned girl whose hands were flying around as she spoke. "The ring." Livvy caught Kit's hand, turning it over. The Herondale ring glinted on his finger. He'd already taken note of the delicate carving of birds that winged their way around the band. "Did Jace give you that?" He shook his head. "Clary. Said it used to belong to James Herondale." "James..." She looked as if she were making an effort to remember something. She gave a squeak then and dropped his hand as a shadow loomed over them. It was Emma. "All right, you little spies," she said. "Where's Cristina? I already looked in her room." Livvy pointed upward. Kit frowned; he hadn't thought there was anything to the third floor but attic. "Ah," Emma said. "Thanks." She shook out her hands at her sides. "When I get hold of Diego..." There was a loud exclamation from below. All four of them craned forward to see the pale girl slap Diego sharply across the face. "What... ?" Emma looked astonished, then furious again. She whirled and headed for the stairs. Ty smiled, looking with his curls and light eyes for all the world like a painted cherub on a church wall. "That girl was angry," he said, sounding delighted to have gotten it right. Kit laughed. The sky above the Institute blazed with color: hot pink, blood red, deep gold. The sun was going down, and the desert was bathed in the glow. The Institute itself shimmered, and the water shimmered too, far out where it waited for the sun's fall. Cristina was exactly where Emma had guessed she would be: sitting as neatly as always, legs crossed, her gear jacket spread out on the shingles beneath her. "He didn't come after me," she said, as Emma drew closer to her. Her black hair moved and lifted in the breeze, the pearls in her ears glimmering. The pendant around her neck shone too, the words on it picked out by the deep glow of the sun: Blessed be the Angel my strength, who teaches my hands to war, and my fingers to fight. Emma collapsed onto the roof next to her friend, as close as she could get. She reached out and took Cristina's hand, squeezing it tightly. "Do you mean Diego?" Cristina nodded. There were no marks of tears on her face; she seemed surprisingly composed, considering. "That girl came up and said she was his fiancee," Cristina said. "And I thought it must be some sort of mistake. Even when I turned and ran out of the room, I thought it must be a mistake and he would come after me and explain. But he didn't, which means he stayed because of her. Because she really is his fiancee and she matters to him more than Ido." "I don't know how he could do it," Emma said. "It's bizarre. He loves you so much--he came here because of you." Cristina made a muffled noise. "You don't even like him!" "I like him--well, liked him--sometimes," Emma said. "The perfect thing was kind of annoying. But the way he looked at you. You can't fake that." "He has a fiancee, Emma. Not even just a girlfriend. A fiancee. Who knows how long he's even been engaged? Engaged. To get married." "I'll crash the wedding," Emma suggested. "I'll jump out of the cake, but not in a sexy way. Like, with grenades." Cristina snorted, then turned her face away. "I just feel so stupid," she said. "He lied to me and I forgave him, and then he lied to me again--what kind of idiot am I? Why on earth did I think he was trustworthy?" "Because you wanted to," Emma said. "You've known him a long time, Tina, and that does make a difference. When someone's been part of your life for that long, cutting them out is like cutting the roots out from under a plant." Cristina was silent for a long moment. "I know," she said. "I know you understand." Emma tasted the acid burn of bitterness at the back of her throat and swallowed it back. She needed to be here for Cristina now, not dwell on her own worries. "When I was little," she said, "Jules and I used to come up here together at sunset practically every night and wait for the green flash." "The what?" "The green flash. When the sun goes down, just as it disappears, you'll see a flash of green light." They both looked out at the water. The sun was disappearing below the horizon, the sky streaked red and black. "If you make a wish on it, it'll come true." "Will it?" Cristina spoke softly, her eyes on the horizon along with Emma's. "I don't know," Emma said. "I've made a lot of wishes by now." The sun sank another few millimeters. Emma tried to think what she could wish for. Even when she'd been younger, she'd understood somehow that there were some things you couldn't wish for: world peace, your dead parents back. The universe couldn't turn itself inside out for you. Wishing only bought you small blessings: a sleep without nightmares, your best friend's safety for another day, birthday sunshine. "Do you remember," Emma said, "before you saw Diego again, you said we should go to Mexico together? Spend a travel year there?" Cristina nodded. "It'd be a while before I could go," said Emma. "I don't turn eighteen until the winter. But when Ido..." Leaving Los Angeles. Spending the year with Cristina, learning and training and traveling. Without Jules. Emma swallowed against the pain the thought caused. It was a pain she'd have to learn to live with. "I'd like that," Cristina said. The sun was just a rim of gold now. "I'll wish for that. And maybe to forget Diego, too." "But then you have to forget the good things as well as the bad ones. And I know there were good things." Emma wound her fingers through Cristina's. "He's not the right person for you. He isn't strong enough. He keeps letting you down and disappointing you. I know he loves you, but that's not enough." "Apparently I'm not the only one he loves." "Maybe he started dating her to try to forget you," Emma said. "And then he got you back, even though he didn't expect to, and he didn't know how to break it off with her." "What an idiot," said Cristina. "I mean, if that were true, which it isn't." Emma laughed. "Okay, yeah, I don't buy it either." She leaned forward. "Look, just let me beat him up for you. You'll feel so much better." "Emma, no. Don't lay a hand on him. I mean it." "I could beat him up with my feet," Emma suggested. "They're registered as lethal weapons." She wiggled them. "You have to promise not to touch him." Cristina glared so severely that Emma raised her free hand in submission. "All right, all right, I promise," she said. "I will not touch Perfect Diego." "And you can't yell at Zara, either," Cristina said. "It's not her fault. I'm sure she has no idea I exist." "Then I feel sorry for her," Emma said. "Because you're one of the greatest people I know." Cristina started to smile. The sun was almost completely down now. A year with Cristina, Emma thought. A year away from everything, from everyone that reminded her of Jules. A year to forget. If she could bear it. Cristina gave a little gasp. "Look, there it is!" The sky flashed green. Emma closed her eyes and wished. When Emma got back to her bedroom, she was surprised to find Mark and Julian already there, each of them standing on opposite sides of her bed, their arms crossed over their chests. "How is she?" Mark said, as soon as the door closed behind Emma. "Cristina, I mean." His gaze was anxious. Julian's was stonier; he looked blank and autocratic, which Emma knew meant he was angry. "Is she upset?" "Of course she's upset," Emma said. "I think not so much because he's been her boyfriend for a few weeks again, but because they've known each other for so long. Their lives are completely entwined." "Where is she now?" Mark said. "Helping Diana and the others fix up the rooms for the Centurions," said Emma. "You wouldn't think carrying sheets and towels around would cheer anyone up, but she promises it will." "In Faerie, I would challenge Rosales to a duel for this," said Mark. "He broke his promise, and a love-promise at that. He would meet me in combat if Cristina consented to let me be her champion." "Well, no luck there," said Emma. "Cristina made me promise not to lay a hand on him, and I bet that goes for you two, too." "So you're saying there's nothing we can do?" Mark scowled, a scowl that matched Julian's. There was something about the two of them, Emma thought, light and dark though they were; they seemed more like brothers in this moment than they had in a long time. "We can go help set up the bedrooms so Cristina can go to sleep," said Emma. "Diego's locked in one of the offices with Zara, so it's not like she's going to run into him, but she could use the rest." "We're going to get revenge on Diego by folding his towels?" Julian said. "They're not technically his towels," Emma pointed out. "They're his friends' towels." She headed for the door, the two boys following reluctantly. It was clear they would have preferred mortal combat on the greensward to making hospital corners for Centurions. Emma wasn't looking forward to it herself. Julian was a lot better at making beds and doing laundry than she was. "I could watch Tavvy," she suggested. Mark had gone ahead of her down the corridor; she found herself walking beside Julian. "He's asleep," he said. He didn't mention how he'd found time to put Tavvy to bed in between everything else that had happened. That was Julian. He found the time. "You know what strikes me as odd?" "What?" Emma said. "Diego must have known his cover would be blown," said Julian. "Even if he wasn't expecting Zara to come with the other Centurions tonight, they all know about her. One of them would have mentioned his fiancee or his engagement." "Good point. Diego might be dishonest, but he's not an idiot." "There are ways you could hurt him without touching him," Julian said. He said it very low, so that only Emma could hear him; and there was something dark in his voice, something that made her shiver. She turned to reply but saw Diana coming down the hall toward them, her expression very much that of someone who has caught people slacking off. She dispatched them to different parts of the Institute: Julian to the attic to check on Arthur, Mark to the kitchen, and Emma to the library to help the twins clean up. Kit had disappeared. "He hasn't run away," Ty informed her helpfully. "He just didn't want to make beds." It was late by the time they finished cleaning up, figured out which bedroom to assign to which Centurion, and made arrangements for food to be delivered the next day. They also set up a patrol to circle the Institute in shifts during the night to watch for rogue sea demons. Heading down the corridor to her room, Emma noticed that a light was shining out from under Julian's door. In fact, the door was cracked partway open; music drifted into the hallway. Without conscious volition, she found herself in front of his room, her hand raised to knock on the door. In fact, she had knocked. She dropped her hand, half in shock, but he had already flung the door open. She blinked at him. He was in old pajama bottoms, with a towel flung over his shoulder, a paintbrush in one hand. There was paint on his bare chest and some in his hair. Though he wasn't touching her, she was aware of his body, the warmth of him. The black spiraling Marks winding down his torso, like vines wreathing a pillar. She had put some of them there herself, back in the days when touching him didn't make her hands shake. "Did you want something?" he asked. "It's late, and Mark is probably waiting for you." "Mark?" She'd almost forgotten Mark, for a moment. "I saw him go into your room." Paint dripped from his brush, splattered on the floor. She could see past him into his room: She hadn't been inside it in what felt like forever. There was plastic sheeting on some of the floor, and she could see brighter spots on his wall where he'd clearly been retouching the mural that ran halfway around the room. She remembered when he'd painted it, after they'd gotten back from Idris. After the Dark War. They'd been lying awake in bed, as they often did, as they had since they were small children. Emma had been talking about how she'd found a book of fairy tales in the library, the kind that mundanes had read hundreds of years ago: how they'd been bloody and full of murder and sadness. She'd spoken of the castle in Sleeping Beauty, surrounded by thorns, and how the story had said that hundreds of princes had tried to break through the barrier to rescue the princess, but they'd all been pierced to death by thorns, their bodies left to whiten to bones in the sun. The next day Julian had painted his room: the castle and the wall of thorns, the glint of bone and the sad prince, his sword broken at his side. Emma had been impressed, even though they'd had to sleep in her room for a week while the paint dried. She'd never asked him why the image or the story called to him. She'd always known that if he wanted to tell her, he would. Emma cleared her throat. "You said I could hurt Diego, without laying a hand on him. What did you mean?" He pushed his free hand through his hair. He looked disheveled--and so gorgeous it hurt. "It's probably better if I don't tell you." "He hurt Cristina," Emma said. "And I don't even think he cares." He reached up to rub the back of his neck. The muscles in his chest and stomach moved when he stretched, and she was aware of the texture of his skin, and wished desperately she could turn back time somehow and be again the person who wasn't shaken to pieces by seeing Julian--who she'd grown up with, and seen half-clothed a million times--with his shirt off. "I saw his face when Cristina ran out of the entry hall," he said. "I don't think you need to worry that he isn't in any pain." He put a hand on the doorknob. "No one can read someone else's mind or guess all their reasons," he said. "Not even you, Emma." He shut the door in her face. Mark was sprawled on the floor at the foot of Emma's bed. His feet were bare; he was half- rolled in a blanket. He looked asleep, his eyes shadowy crescents against his pale skin, but he half-opened the blue one when she came in. "Is she really all right?" "Cristina? Yes." Emma sat down on the floor beside him, leaning against the footboard. "It sucks, but she'll be okay." "It would be hard, I think," he said, in his sleep-thickened voice, "to deserve her." "You like her," she said. "Don't you?" He rolled onto his side and looked at her with that searching faerie gaze that made her feel as if she stood alone in a field, watching the wind stir the grass. "Of course I like her." Emma cursed the intensity of faerie language --like meant nothing to them: They lived in a world of love or hate, scorn or adoration. "Your heart feels something for her," she said. Mark sat up. "She would not, I think--feel that way about me." "Why not?" Emma said. "She certainly isn't stuck-up about faeries, you know that. She's fond of you--" "She is kind, gentle, generous-hearted. Sensible, thoughtful, kind--" "You said 'kind' already." Mark glared. "She is nothing like me." "You don't have to be like someone to love them," said Emma. "Look at you and me. We're pretty similar, and we don't feel that way about each other." "Only because you're involved with someone else." Mark spoke matter-of-factly, but Emma looked at him in surprise. He knows about Jules, she thought, for a moment of panic, before she remembered her lie about Cameron. "Too bad, isn't it," she said lightly, trying to keep her heart from hammering. "You and I, together, it would have been... such an easy thing." "Passion is not easy. Nor is the lack of it." Mark leaned into her. His shoulder was warm against hers. She remembered their kiss, thought of her fingers in his soft hair. His body against hers, responsive and strong. But even as she tried to grip tight to the image, it slid away between her fingers like dry sand. Like the sand on the beach the night Julian and she had lain there, the only night they'd had together. "You look sad," said Mark. "I am sorry to have brought up the matter of love." He touched her cheek. "In another life, perhaps. You and I." Emma let her head fall back against the footboard. "In another life." <|title|>Chapter 6: There the Traveller <|startofchapter|>Since the kitchen was too small to hold the inhabitants of the Institute plus twenty-odd Centurions, breakfast was set up in the dining room. Portraits of Blackthorns past looked down on plates of eggs and bacon and racks of toast. Cristina moved unobtrusively among the crowd, trying not to be seen. She doubted she would have come down at all if it hadn't been for her desperate need for coffee. She looked around for Emma and Mark, but neither of them were here yet. Emma wasn't an early riser, and Mark still tended toward the nocturnal. Julian was there, dishing up food, but he was wearing the pleasant, almost blank expression he always wore around strangers. Odd, she thought, that she knew Julian well enough to realize that. They had a sort of bond, both of them loving Emma, but separated from each other by the knowledge Julian didn't realize she had. Julian trying to hide that he loved Emma, and Cristina trying to hide that she knew. She wished she could offer him sympathy, but he would only recoil in horror "Cristina." She nearly dropped her coffee. It was Diego. He looked awful--his face drawn, bags under his eyes, his hair tangled. He wore ordinary gear and seemed to have misplaced his Centurion pin. She held up her hand. "Alejate de mi, Diego." "Just listen to me--" Someone moved between them. The Spanish boy with the sandy hair--Manuel. "You heard her," he said, in English. No one else was looking at them yet; they were all involved in their own conversations. "Leave her alone." Cristina turned and walked out of the room. She kept her back straight. She refused to hurry her steps--not for anyone. She was a Rosales. She didn't want the Centurions' pity. She pushed through the front door and clattered down the stairs. She wished Emma was awake. They could go to the training room and kick and punch away their frustrations. She strode on unseeing until she nearly collided with the twisted quickbeam tree that still grew in the shabby grass in front of the Institute. It had been put there by faeries--a whipping tree, used for punishment. It remained even when the punishment was over, when rain had washed Emma's blood from the grass and stones. "Cristina, please." She whirled. Diego was there, apparently having decided to ignore Manuel. He really did look awful. The shadows under his eyes looked as if they had been cut there. He had carried her across this grass, she remembered, only two weeks ago, when she had been injured. He had held her tightly, whispering her name over and over. And all the time, he'd been engaged to someone else. She leaned back against the trunk of the tree. "You really don't understand why I don't want to see you?" "Of course I understand it," he said. "But it's not what you think." "Really? You're not engaged? You're not supposed to marry Zara?" "She is my fiancee," he said. "But--Cristina--it's more complicated than it looks." "I really don't see how it could be." "I wrote to her," he said. "After you and I got back together. I told her it was over." "I don't think she got your letter," Cristina said. Diego shoved his hands into his hair. "No, she did. She told me she read it, and that's why she came here. Honestly, I never thought she would. I thought it was over when I didn't hear from her. I thought--I really thought I was free." "So you broke up with her last night?" He hesitated, and in that moment of hesitation, any thought that Cristina had been harboring in the deepest recesses of her heart, any fleeting hope that this was all a mistake, vanished like mist burned away by the sun. "I didn't," he said. "I can't." "But you just said you did, in your letter--" "Things are different now," he said. "Cristina, you'll have to trust me." "No," she said. "No, I won't. I already trusted you, despite the evidence of my own ears. I don't know if anything you said before was true. I don't know if the things you've said about Jaime are true. Where is he?" Diego dropped his hands to his sides. He looked defeated. "There are things I cannot tell you. I wish you could believe me." "What's going on?" Zara's high, clear voice cut across the dry air; she was walking toward them, her Centurion pin gleaming in the sun. Diego glanced at her, a look of pain on his face. "I was talking to Cristina." "I see that." Zara's mouth was set into a little smile, a look that never seemed to leave her face. She swept a glance over Cristina and put her hand on Diego's shoulder. "Come back inside," she said. "We're figuring out what grids we're going to search today. You know this area well. Time to help out. Tick, tick." She tapped her watch. Diego looked once at Cristina, then turned back to his fiancee. "All right." With a last superior glance, Zara slipped her hand into Diego's and half-dragged him back toward the Institute. Cristina watched them go, the coffee she had drunk roiling in her stomach like acid. To Emma's disappointment, the Centurions refused to allow any of the Blackthorns to accompany them on the search for Malcolm's body. "No, thanks," said Zara, who appeared to have appointed herself unofficial head of the Centurions. "We've trained for this, and dealing with less experienced Shadowhunters on this kind of mission is just distracting." Emma glared at Diego, who was standing next to Zara. He looked away. They were gone almost all day, returning in time for dinner, which the Blackthorns wound up making. It was spaghetti--lots of spaghetti. "I miss the vampire pizza," Emma muttered, glaring at an enormous bowl of red sauce. Julian snorted. He was standing over a pot of boiling water; the steam rose and curled his hair into damp ringlets. "Maybe they'll at least tell us if they found anything." "I doubt it," said Ty, who was preparing to set the table. It was an activity he'd enjoyed since he was little; he loved setting up each utensil in precise and even repeated order. Livvy was helping him; Kit had skulked off and was nowhere to be found. He seemed to resent the intrusion of the Centurions more than anyone else. Emma couldn't really blame him--he'd barely been adjusting to the Institute as it was, when in swept these people whose needs he was expected to cater to. Ty was mostly right. Dinner was a large, lively affair; Zara had somehow managed to wedge herself in at the head of the table, ousting Diana, and gave them an abbreviated account of the day--sections of ocean had been searched, nothing significant found, though trace elements of dark magic indicated a point farther out in the ocean where sea demons clustered. "We'll approach it tomorrow," she said, elegantly forking up spaghetti. "How are you searching?" Emma asked, her eagerness to know more about advanced Shadowhunting techniques outweighing her dislike of Zara. After all, as Cristina had said earlier, the situation wasn't really Zara's fault; it was Diego's. "Do you have special gear?" "Unfortunately, that information is proprietary to the Scholomance," Zara said with a cool smile. "Even for someone who's supposed to be the best Shadowhunter of her generation." Emma flushed and sat back in her chair. "What's that supposed to mean?" "You know how people talk about you in Idris," said Zara. Her tone was careless, but her hazel eyes were dagger points. "Like you're the new Jace Herondale." "But we still have the old Jace Herondale," said Ty, puzzled. "It's a saying," Julian said, in a low voice. "It means, like, someone just as good." Normally he would have said, I'll draw it for you, Ty. Visual representations of sometimes- confusing expressions, like "he laughed his head off' or "the best thing since sliced bread" resulted in hilarious drawings by Julian with explanatory notes about the real meaning of the expression underneath. The fact that he didn't say it made Emma look at him a little more sharply. His hackles were up because of the Centurions, not that she blamed him. When Julian didn't trust someone, all his protective instincts kicked into gear: to hide Livvy's love of computers, Ty's unusual way of processing information, Dru's horror movies. Emma's rule breaking. Julian raised his glass of water with a brilliantly artificial smile. "Shouldn't all Nephilim information be shared? We fight the same demons. If one branch of Nephilim has an advantage, isn't that unfair?" "Not necessarily," said Samantha Larkspear, the female half of the twin Centurions Emma had met the day before. Her brother's name was Dane; they shared the same thin, whippety faces, pale skin, and straight dark hair. "Not everyone has the training to use every tool, and a weapon you don't know how to wield is wasted." "Everyone can learn," said Mark. "Then perhaps one day you will attend the Scholomance and be trained," said the Centurion from Mumbai. Her name was Divya Joshi. "It's unlikely the Scholomance would accept someone with faerie blood," said Zara. "The Clave is hidebound," said Diego. "That is true." "I dislike the word 'hidebound,'" said Zara. "What they are is traditional. They seek to restore the separations between Downworlders and Shadowhunters that have always been in place. Mixing creates confusion." "I mean, look at what's happened with Alec Lightwood and Magnus Bane," said Samantha, waving her fork. "Everyone knows that Magnus uses his influence with the Lightwoods to get the Inquisitor to let Downworlders off the hook. Even for things like murder." "Magnus would never do that," Emma said. She'd stopped eating, though she'd been starving when they'd sat down. "And the Inquisitor doesn't try Downworlders--only Shadowhunters," said Julian. "Robert Lightwood couldn't 'let Downworlders off the hook' if he wanted to." "Whatever," said Jessica Beausejours, a Centurion with a faint French accent and rings on all her fingers. "The Downworlder-Shadowhunter Alliance will be shut down soon enough." "No one's shutting it down," said Cristina. Her mouth was a tight line. "That's a rumor." "Speaking of rumors," said Samantha, "I heard Bane tricked Alec Lightwood into falling in love with him using a spell." Her eyes glittered, as if she couldn't decide if she found the idea appealing or disgusting. "That's not true," said Emma, her heart beating fast. "That is a lie." Manuel raised an eyebrow at her. Dane laughed. "I wonder what will happen when it wears off, in that case," he said. "Bad news for Downworlders if the Inquisitor's not so friendly." Ty looked bewildered. Emma could hardly blame him. None of Zara's circle seemed to care about facts. "Didn't you hear Julian?" he said. "The Inquisitor doesn't supervise cases where Downworlders have broken the Accords. He doesn't--" Livvy put her hand on his wrist. "We all support the Accords here," said Manuel, leaning back in his chair. "The Accords were a fine idea," said Zara. "But every tool needs sharpening. The Accords require refining. Warlocks should be regulated, for instance. They are too powerful, and too independent. My father plans to suggest a registry of warlocks to the Council. Every warlock must give their information to the Clave and be tracked. If successful, it will be expanded to all Downworlders. We can't have them running around without us being able to keep tabs on them. Look what happened with Malcolm Fade." "Zara, you sound ridiculous," said Jon Cartwright, one of the older Centurions--about twenty-two, Emma would have guessed. Jace and Clary's age. The only thing Emma could remember about him was that he had a girlfriend, Marisol. "Like an ancient Council member, afraid of change." "Agreed," said Rayan. "We're students and fighters, not lawmakers. Whatever your father maybe doing, it's not relevant to the Scholomance." Zara looked indignant. "It's just a registry--" "Am I the only one who's read X-Men and realizes why this is a bad idea?" said Kit. Emma had no idea when he'd reappeared, but he had, and was idly twirling pasta on his fork. Zara began to frown, then brightened. "You're Kit Herondale," she said. "The lost Herondale." "I didn't realize I was lost," said Kit. "I never felt lost." "It must be exciting, suddenly finding out you're a Herondale," Zara said. Emma restrained the urge to point out that if you didn't know much about Shadowhunters, finding out you were a Herondale was about as exciting as finding out you were a new species of snail. "I met Jace Herondale once." She looked around expectantly. "Wow," said Kit. He really was a Herondale, Emma thought. He'd managed to insert Jace- levels of indifference and sarcasm into one word. "I bet you can't wait to get to the Academy," said Zara. "Since you're a Herondale, you'll certainly excel. I could put in a good word for you." Kit was silent. Diana cleared her throat. "So what are your plans for tomorrow, Zara, Diego? Is there anything the Institute can do to assist you?" "Now that you mention it," Zara said, "it would be incredibly useful..." Everyone, even Kit, leaned forward with interest. "If, while we were gone during the day, you did our laundry. Ocean water does ruin clothes quickly, don't you find?" Night fell with the suddenness of shadows in the desert, but despite the sound of waves coming in through her window, Cristina couldn't sleep. Thoughts of home tore at her. Her mother, her cousins. Better, past days with Diego and Jaime: She remembered a weekend she had spent with them once, tracking a demon in the dilapidated ghost town of Guerrero Viejo. The dreamlike landscape all around them: half- drowned houses, feathery weeds, buildings long discolored by water. She had lain on a rock with Jaime under uncountable stars, and they had told each other what they wanted most in the world: she, to end the Cold Peace; he, to bring honor back to his family. Exasperated, she got out of bed and went downstairs, with only witchlight to illuminate her steps. The stairs were dark and quiet, and she found her way out the back door of the Institute with little noise. Moonlight swept across the small dirt lot where the Institute's car was parked. Behind the lot was a garden, where white marble classical statues poked incongruously out of the desert sand. Cristina missed her mother's rose garden with a sudden intensity. The scent of the flowers, sweeter than desert sage; her mother walking between the orderly rows. Cristina used to joke that her mother must have a warlock's help in keeping the flowers blooming even during the hottest summer. She moved farther away from the house, toward the rows of hollyleaf cherry and alder trees. Drawing closer to them, she saw a shadow and froze, realizing she had brought no weapons with her. Stupid, she thought--the desert was full of dangers, not all of them supernatural. Mountain lions didn't distinguish between mundanes and Nephilim. It wasn't a mountain lion. The shadow moved closer; she tensed, then relaxed. It was Mark. The moonlight turned his hair silvery white. His feet were bare under the hems of his jeans. Astonishment crossed his face as he saw her; then he walked up to her without hesitation and put a hand on her cheek. "Am I imagining you?" he said. "I was thinking about you, and now here you are." It was such a Mark thing to say, a frank statement of his emotions. Because faeries couldn't lie, she thought, and he had grown up around them, and learned how to speak of love and loving with Kieran, who was proud and arrogant but always truthful. Faeries did not associate truth with weakness and vulnerability, as humans did. It made Cristina feel braver. "I was thinking about you, too." Mark feathered his thumb across her cheekbone. His palm was warm on her skin, cradling her head. "What about me?" "The look on your face when Zara and her friends were talking about Downworlders during dinner. Your pain..." He laughed without humor. "I should have expected it. Had I been an active Shadowhunter for the past five years, I would doubtless be more used to such talk." "Because of the Cold Peace?" He nodded. "When a decision like that is made by a government, it emboldens those who are already prejudiced to speak their deepest thoughts of hate. They assume they are simply brave enough to say what everyone really thinks." "Mark--" "In Zara's mind, I am hated," said Mark. His eyes were shadowed. "I am sure her father is part of that group that demands Helen remain prisoned on Wrangel Island." "She will come back," Cristina said. "Now that you have come home, and fought so loyally for Shadowhunters, surely they will let her go." Mark shook his head, but all he said was: "I am sorry about Diego." She reached up and put her hand over his, his fingers light and cool as willow branches. She wanted to touch him more, abruptly, wanted to test the feel of his skin under his shirt, the texture of his jawline, where he had clearly never shaved and never needed to. "No," she said. "You're not, not really. Are you?" "Cristina," Mark breathed, a little helplessly. "Can I... ?" Cristina shook her head--if she actually let him ask, she'd never be able to say no. "We can't," she said. "Emma." "You know that's not real," Mark said. "I love Emma, but not like that." "But it's important, what she's doing." She drew away from Mark. "Julian has to believe it." He looked at her in puzzlement and she remembered: Mark didn't know. Not about the curse, not that Julian loved Emma, or that Emma loved him. "Everyone has to believe it. And besides," she added hastily, "there's Kieran. You only just ended things with him. And I just ended things with Diego." He only looked more puzzled. She supposed faeries had never adopted the human ideas of giving each other space and having time to get over relationships. And maybe they were stupid ideas. Maybe love was love and you should take it when you found it. Certainly her body was screaming at her mind to shut up: She wanted to put her arms around Mark, wanted to hold him as he held her, feel his chest against hers as his expanded with breath. Something echoed out in the darkness. It sounded like the snap of an enormous branch, followed by a slow, dragging noise. Cristina whirled, reaching for her balisong. But it was inside, on her nightstand. "Do you think it's the Centurions' night patrol?" she whispered to Mark. He was looking out into the darkness too, narrow-eyed. "No. That was not a human noise." He took out two seraph blades and pressed one into her hand. "Nor was it an animal." The weight of the blade in Cristina's hand was familiar and comforting. After a moment's pause to apply a Night Vision rune, she followed Mark into the desert shadows. Kit opened his bedroom door a crack and peered through. The hallway was deserted. No Ty sitting outside his door, reading or lying on the floor with headphones on. No lights seeping from underneath other doors. Just the dim glow of the rows of white lights that ran across the ceiling. He half-expected alarms to go off as he crept through the silent house and opened the front door of the Institute, some kind of shrieking whistle or burst of lights. But there was nothing--just the sound of an ordinary heavy door creaking open and shut behind him. He was outside, on the porch above the steps that led toward the trampled grass in front of the Institute, and then the road to the highway. The view over the cliff and down to the sea was bathed in moonlight, silver and black, a white path slashing across the water. It was beautiful here, Kit thought, slinging his duffel bag over his shoulder. But not beautiful enough to stay. You couldn't trade a beach view for freedom. He started down the stairs. His foot hit the first step and went out from under him as he was yanked backward. His duffel bag went flying. A hand was gripping his shoulder, hard; Kit wrenched himself sideways, nearly falling down the steps, and flung out his arm, colliding with something solid. He heard a muffled grunt--there was a barely visible figure, just a shadow among the shadows, looming over him, blocking the moon. A second later they were both falling, Kit thudding to the porch on his back, the dark shadow collapsing on top of him. He felt sharp knees and elbows poke into him and a moment later a light flared: one of those stupid little stones they called witchlights. "Kit," said a voice above him--Tiberius's voice. "Stop thrashing." Ty shook his dark hair out of his face. He was kneeling over Kit--sitting on his solar plexus, pretty much, which made it hard to breathe--dressed all in black the way Shadowhunters did when they went out to fight. Only his hands and face were bare, very white in the darkness. "Were you running away?" he said. "I was going for a walk," said Kit. "No, you're lying," said Ty, eyeing Kit's duffel bag. "You were running away." Kit sighed and let his head fall back with a thump. "Why do you care what I do?" "I'm a Shadowhunter. We help people." "Now you're lying," said Kit, with conviction. Ty smiled. It was a genuine, light-up-your-face-type smile, and it made Kit remember the first time he'd met Ty. Ty hadn't been sitting on him then, but he had been holding a dagger to Kit's throat. Kit had looked at him and forgotten the knife and thought, Beautiful. Beautiful like all the Shadowhunters were beautiful, like moonlight shearing off the edges of broken glass: lovely and deadly. Beautiful things, cruel things, cruel in that way that only people who absolutely believed in the rightness of their cause could be cruel. "I need you," Ty said. "You might be surprised to hear that." "I am," Kit agreed. He wondered if anyone was going to come running. He couldn't hear approaching feet, or voices. "What happened to the night patrol?" he demanded. "They're probably half a mile from here," said Ty. "They're trying to keep demons from getting near the Institute, not keep you from getting out. Now do you want to know what I need you for, or not?" Almost against his will, Kit was curious. He propped himself up on his elbows and nodded. Ty was sitting on him as casually as if Kit was a sofa, but his fingers--long, quick fingers, deft with a knife, Kit recalled--hovered near his weapons belt. "You're a criminal," Ty said. "Your father was a con man and you wanted to be like him. Your duffel bag is probably full of things you stole from the Institute." "It...," Kit began, and trailed off as Ty reached over, yanked the zipper on the bag down, and eyed the cache of stolen daggers, boxes, scabbards, candlesticks, and anything else Kit had scavenged revealed in the moonlight. "... might be," Kit concluded. "What's that got to do with you, anyway? None of it's yours." "I want to solve crimes," Ty said. "To be a detective. But nobody here cares about that sort of thing." "Didn't you just all catch a murderer?" "Malcolm sent a note," Ty said in a withering tone, as if he were disappointed that Malcolm had ruined crime-solving with his confession. "And then he admitted he did it." "That does rather narrow down the list of suspects," Kit said. "Look, if you need me so you can arrest me for fun, I feel I should point out it's the sort of thing you can only do once." "I don't want to arrest you. I want a partner. Someone who knows about crimes and people who commit them so they can help me." A lightbulb went off in Kit's head. "You want a--wait, you've been sleeping outside my room because you want a sort of Watson for your Sherlock Holmes ?" Ty's eyes lit up. They still moved restlessly around Kit as if he were reading him, examining him, never quite meeting Kit's own, but that didn't dim their glow. "You know about them?" Everyone in the whole world knows about them, Kit almost said, but instead only said, "I'm not going to be anybody's Watson. I don't want to solve crimes. I don't care about crimes. I don't care if they're being committed, or not committed--" "Don't think of them as crimes. Think of them as mysteries. Besides, what else are you going to do? Run away? And go where?" "I don't care--" "You do, though," said Ty. "You want to live. Just like everyone else does. You don't want to be trapped, is all." He cocked his head to the side, his eyes a depthless almost-white in the witchlight glow. The moon had gone behind a cloud, and it was the only illumination. "How'd you know I was going to run away tonight?" "Because you were getting used to it here," said Ty. "You were getting used to us. But the Centurions, you don't like them. Livvy noticed it first. And after what Zara said today about you going to the Academy--you must feel like you're not going to have any choices about what you do, after this." It was true, surprisingly so. Kit couldn't find the words to explain how he'd felt at the dinner table. As if becoming a Shadowhunter meant being shoved into a machine that would chew him up and spit out a Centurion. "I look at them," he said, "and I think, 'I can't possibly be like them, and they can't stand anyone different.'" "You don't have to go to the Academy," said Ty. "You can stay with us as long as you want." Kit doubted Ty had the authority to make a promise like that, but he appreciated it regardless. "As long as I help you solve mysteries," he said. "How often do you have mysteries to solve, or do I have to wait until another warlock goes crazypants?" Ty leaned against one of the pillars. His hands fluttered at his sides like night butterflies. "Actually, there's a mystery going on right now." Kit was intrigued despite himself. "What is it?" "I think they're not here for the reason they claim they are. I think they're up to something," Ty said. "And they're definitely lying to us." "Who's lying?" Ty's eyes sparkled. "The Centurions, of course." The next day was blistering hot, one of those rare days when the air seemed to stand still and the proximity of the ocean offered no relief. When Emma arrived, late, for breakfast in the dining room, the rarely used ceiling fans were whirling full speed. "Was it a sand demon?" Dane Larkspear was asking Cristina. "Akvan and Iblis demons are common in the desert." "We know that," said Julian. "Mark already said it was a sea demon." "It slithered off the moment we shone witchlight upon it," said Mark. "But it left behind a stink of seawater, and wet sand." "I can't believe there aren't perimeter wards here," Zara said. "Why has no one ever seen to it? I ought to ask Mr. Blackthorn--" "The perimeter wards failed to keep out Sebastian Morgenstern," said Diana. "They weren't used again after that. Perimeter wards rarely work." She sounded as if she were struggling to keep her temper. Emma couldn't blame her. Zara looked at her with a sort of superior pity. "Well, with all these sea demons crawling up out of the ocean--which they wouldn't be doing if Malcolm Fade's body wasn't in there somewhere, you know--I think they're called for. Don't you?" There was a murmur of voices: most of the Centurions, except for Diego, Jon, and Rayan, seemed to be in agreement. As they made plans to set the wards up that morning, Emma tried to catch Julian's eye to share his annoyance, but he was looking away from her, toward Mark and Cristina. "What were you two doing outside last night, anyway?" "We couldn't sleep," Mark said. "We bumped into each other." Zara smiled. "Of course you did." She turned to whisper something into Samantha's ear. Both girls giggled. Cristina blushed angrily. Emma saw Julian's hand tighten on his fork. He laid it down slowly next to his plate. Emma bit her lip. If Mark and Cristina wanted to date, she'd give them her blessing. She'd stage some kind of breakup with Mark; their "relationship" had already done a lot of what it needed to do. Julian could barely look at her anymore, and that was what she'd wanted-- wasn't it? He didn't seem happy about the idea that she and Mark might be over, though. Not even a little bit. If he was even thinking about that. There had been a time when she could always tell what Julian had on his mind. Now, she could read only the surface of his thoughts: His deeper feelings were hidden. Diego looked from Mark to Cristina and stood up, shoving back his chair. He walked out of the room. After a moment, Emma dropped her napkin onto her plate and followed. He had stomped all the way to the back door and out into the parking lot before he noticed she was following him--a sure sign he was upset, given Diego's level of training. He turned to face her, his dark eyes glittering. "Emma," he said. "I understand you wish to scold me. You have for days. But this is not a good time." "And what would be a good time? You want to pencil it into your day planner under Never Going to Happen?" She raised an eyebrow. "That's what I thought. Come on." She stalked around the side of the Institute, Diego reluctantly following. They reached a spot where a small mound of dirt rose between cacti, familiar to Emma from long experience. "You stand there," she said, pointing. He gave her a disbelieving look. "So we won't be seen from the windows," she explained, and he grouchily did as she'd asked, crossing his arms across his muscular chest. "Emma," he said. "You do not and cannot understand, and I cannot explain to you--" "I bet you can't," she said. "Look, you know I haven't always been your biggest fan, but I thought a lot better of you than this." A muscle twitched in his face. His jaw was rigid. "As I said. You cannot understand, and I cannot explain." "It would be one thing," Emma said, "if you'd just been two-timing, which I still would think was despicable, but--Zara? You're the reason she's here. You know we aren't-- You know Julian has to be careful." "He should not worry too much," said Diego tonelessly. "Zara is only interested in what profits her. I do not think she has any interest in Arthur's secrets, only in getting attention from the Council for completing this mission successfully." "Easy for you to assume." "I have reasons for everything I do, Emma," he said. "Maybe Cristina does not know them now, but one day she will." "Diego, everyone has reasons for everything they do. Malcolm had reasons for what he did." Diego's mouth flattened into a thin line. "Do not compare me to Malcolm Fade." "Because he was a warlock?" Emma's voice was low, dangerous. "Because you think like your fiancee does? About the Cold Peace? About warlocks, and faeries? About Mark?" "Because he was a murderer." Diego spoke through his teeth. "Whatever else you think of me, Emma, I am not a senseless bigot. I do not believe Downworlders are lesser, to be registered or to be tortured--" "But you admit Zara does," said Emma. "I have never told her anything," he said. "Maybe you can understand why I'm wondering how you could prefer her to Cristina," Emma said. Diego tensed--and shouted. Emma had forgotten how fast he could move, despite his bulk: He leaped back, cursing and kicking out with his left foot. Muttering in pain, he kicked off his shoe. Columns of ants marched over his ankle, scurrying up his leg. "Oh, dear," said Emma. "You must have stood on a red-ant hill. You know, accidentally." Diego slapped the ants away, still cursing. He'd kicked away part of the top of the mound of dirt, and ants were pouring out of it. Emma stepped back. "Don't worry," she said. "They're not poisonous." "You tricked me into standing on an anthill?" He had shoved his foot back into his shoe, but Emma knew he'd have itchy bites for a few days unless he used an iratze. "Cristina made me promise not to touch you, so I had to get creative," Emma said. "You shouldn't have lied to my best friend. Desgraciado mentiroso." He stared at her. Emma sighed. "I hope that meant what I think it meant. I'd hate to have just called you a rusty bucket or something." "No," he said. To her surprise, he sounded wearily amused. "It meant what you thought it meant." "Good." She stalked back toward the house. She was almost out of earshot when he called after her. She turned and saw him standing where she'd left him, apparently heedless of the ants or the hot sun beating down on his shoulders. "Believe me, Emma," he said, loudly enough for her to hear him, "no one hates me more than I hate myself right now." "Do you really think so?" she asked. Emma didn't shout, but she knew the words carried. He looked at her for a long moment, silently, before she walked away. The day stayed hot until the late afternoon, when a storm rolled in over the ocean. The Centurions had left before noon, and Emma couldn't help but stare out the windows anxiously as the sun set behind a mass of black and gray clouds on the horizon, shot through with heat lightning. "Do you think they'll be okay?" Dru asked, her hands worrying the hilt of her throwing knife. "Aren't they out in a boat? It looks like a bad storm." "We don't know what they're doing," Emma said. She almost added that thanks to the Centurions' snobbish desire to conceal their activities from the Institute's Shadowhunters, it would be very difficult to rescue them if something dangerous did happen, but she saw the look on Dru's face and didn't. Dru had practically hero-worshipped Diego--despite everything, she was probably still fond of him. Emma felt briefly guilty about the ants. "They'll be fine," said Cristina reassuringly. "Centurions are very careful." Livvy called Dru over to fence with her, and Dru trailed off toward where Ty, Kit, and Livvy stood together on a training mat. Somehow Kit had been convinced to don training gear. He looked like a mini Jace, Emma thought with amusement, with his blond curls and angular cheekbones. Behind them, Diana was showing Mark a training stance. Emma blinked--Julian had been there, a moment ago. She was sure of it. "He went to check on your uncle," Cristina said. "Something about him not liking storms." "No, it's Tavvy who doesn't like . . ." Emma's voice trailed off. Tavvy was sitting in the corner of the training room, reading a book. She remembered all the times Julian had disappeared during storms, claiming Tavvy was frightened of them. She slid Cortana into its sheath. "I'll be back." Cristina watched her go with troubled eyes. No one else seemed to notice as she slipped out the training room door and down the hallway. The massive windows spaced along the corridor let in a peculiar gray light, hazed with pinpoints of silver. She reached the door to the attic and ran up the stairs; though she didn't bother to conceal the sound of her footfalls, neither Arthur nor Julian seemed to have noticed her when she entered the main attic room. The windows were tightly closed and sealed with paper, all except one, over the desk at which Arthur sat. The paper had been torn away from it, showing clouds racing across the sky, colliding and untangling like thick rounds of gray and black yarn. Trays of uneaten food were scattered on Arthur's several desks. The room smelled like rot and mildew. Emma swallowed, wondering if she'd made a mistake in coming. Arthur was slumped in his desk chair, lank hair falling over his eyes. "I want them to go," he was saying. "I don't like having them here." "I know." Julian spoke with a gentleness that surprised Emma. How could he not be angry? She was angry--angry about everything that had conspired to force Julian to grow up years too fast. That had deprived him of a childhood. How could he look at Arthur and not think of that? "I want them to go too, but there's nothing I can do to send them away. We have to be patient." "I need my medicine," Arthur whispered. "Where is Malcolm?" Emma winced at the look on Julian's face--and Arthur seemed suddenly to notice her. He raised his eyes, their gaze fixing on her--no, not on her. On her sword. "Cortana," he said. "Made by Wayland the Smith, the legendary forger of Excalibur and Durendal. Said to choose its bearer. When Ogier raised it to slay the son of Charlemagne on the field, an angel came and broke the sword and said to him, 'Mercy is better than revenge.'" Emma looked at Julian. It was shadowy in the attic, but she could see his hands clenched at his sides. Was he angry at her for following him? "But Cortana has never been broken," she said. "It's only a story," Julian said. "There is truth in stories," said Arthur. "There is truth in one of your paintings, boy, or in a sunset or a couplet from Homer. Fiction is truth, even if it is not fact. If you believe only in facts and forget stories, your brain will live, but your heart will die." "I understand, Uncle." Julian sounded tired. "I'll be back later. Please eat something. All right?" Arthur lowered his face into his hands, shaking his head. Julian began to move across the room to the stairs; halfway there, he caught Emma's wrist, drawing her after him. He exerted no real force, but she followed him anyway, shocked into compliance simply by the physical sensation of his hand on her wrist. He only touched her to apply runes these days--she missed those friendly touches she was used to from the years of their friendship: a hand brushing her arm, a tap on her shoulder. Their secret way of communicating: fingers drawings words and letters on each other's skin, silent and invisible to everyone else. It seemed like forever. And now sparks were racing up her arm from that one point of contact, making her body feel hot, stinging, and confused. His fingers looped her wrist as they went out the front door. When it closed behind them, he let go, turning to face her. The air felt heavy and dense, pressing against Emma's skin. Mist obscured the highway. She could see the heaving surfaces of gray waves slapping against the shore; from here, each looked as big as a humpbacked whale. She could see the moon, struggling to show itself between clouds. Julian was breathing hard, as if he'd been running flat out for miles. The dampness of the air stuck his shirt to his chest as he leaned back against the wall of the Institute. "Why did you come to the attic?" he said. "I'm sorry." She spoke stiffly. She hated being stiff around Jules. They'd rarely had a fight that didn't end in a casual apology or joking. I had this feeling, that you needed me, and I couldn't not come. "I understand if you're angry--" "I'm not angry." Lightning sizzled out over the water, briefly whitening the sky. "That's the hell of it, I can't be angry, can I? Mark doesn't know a thing about you and me, he isn't trying to hurt me, none of it's his fault. And you, you did the right thing. I can't hate you for that." He pushed off from the wall, took a restless few paces. The energy of the pent-up storm seemed to crackle off his skin. "But I can't stand it. What do I do, Emma?" He raked his hands through his hair; the humidity was making it curl into ringlets that clung to his fingers. "We can't live like this." "I know," she said. "I'll go away. It's only a few months. I'll be eighteen. We'll take our travel years away from each other. We'll forget." "Will we?" His mouth twisted into an impossible smile. "We have to." Emma had begun to shiver; it was cold, the clouds above them roiling like the smoke of a scorched sky. "I should never have touched you," he said. He'd drawn closer to her, or maybe she'd moved closer to him, wanting to take his hands, the way she always had. "I never thought what we had could break so easily." "It's not broken," she whispered. "We made a mistake--but being together wasn't the mistake." "Most people get to make mistakes, Emma. It doesn't have to ruin their whole lives." She closed her eyes, but she could still see him. Still feel him, inches away from her, the heat of his body, the scent of cloves that clung to his clothes and hair. It was making her insane, making her knees shake as if she'd just staggered off a roller coaster. "Our lives aren't ruined." His arms went around her. She thought for a moment of resisting, but she was so tired-- so tired of fighting what she wanted. She hadn't thought she'd ever get this, Jules in her arms again, all lean muscle and taut tension, strong painter's hands smoothing down her back, his fingers tracing letters, words, on her skin. IA-M R-U-I-N-E-D. She opened her eyes, appalled. His face was so close it was almost a blur of light and shadow. "Emma," he said, his arms leashing her, pulling her closer. And then he was kissing her; they were kissing each other. He drew her against him; he fit her body to his, curves and hollows, muscles and softness. His mouth was open over hers, his tongue running gently along the seam of her lips. Thunder exploded around them, lightning shattering against the mountains, blazing a path of dry heat across the inside of Emma's eyelids. She opened her mouth under his, pressed up against him, her arms wrapping around his neck. He tasted like fire, like spice. He ran his hands down her sides, over her hips. Drew her more firmly against him. He was making a low sound in his throat, a sort of anguished wanting sound. It felt like forever. It felt like no time at all. His hands molded the shape of her shoulder blades, the curve of her body beneath her rib cage, thumbs arching over the crests of her hips. He lifted her up and against him as if they could fit into each other's empty spaces, as words spilled from his mouth: frantic, hurried, "Emma--I need you, always, always think about you, I was wishing you were with me in that goddamned attic and then I turned around and you were there, like you heard me, like you're always there when I need you...." Lightning forked again, illuminating the world: Emma could see her hands on Julian's shirt hem--what the hell was she thinking, was she planning for them both to strip down on the Institute's front porch? Reality reasserted itself; she pushed away, her heart slamming against her chest. "Em?" He looked at her, dazed, his eyes sleepy and hot and wanting. It made her swallow hard. But his words echoed in her head: He'd wanted her, and she'd come as if she'd heard him call--she'd felt that wanting, known it, not been able to stop herself. All these weeks of insisting to herself that the parabatai bond was weakening, and now he was telling her they'd just practically read each other's minds. "Mark," she said, and it was just one word but it was the word, the most brutal reminder of their situation. The sleepy look left his eyes; he whitened, aghast. He raised a hand as if he meant to say something--explain, apologize--and the sky seemed to rip down the middle. They both turned to stare as the clouds directly above them parted. A shadow grew in the air, darkening as it neared them: the figure of a man, massive and bound in armor, bareback on a red-eyed, foaming brindled horse--black and gray, like the storm clouds overhead. Julian moved as if to thrust Emma behind him, but she wouldn't budge. She simply stared as the horse came to a neighing, pawing stop at the foot of the Institute steps. The man looked up at them. His eyes, like Mark's, were two different colors, in his case blue and black. His face was terrifyingly familiar. It was Gwyn ap Nudd, the lord and leader of the Wild Hunt. And he did not look pleased. <|title|>Chapter 7: Seas Without a Shore <|startofchapter|>Before Julian or Emma could speak, the front door of the Institute slammed open. Diana was there, with Mark just behind her, still in his training clothes. Diana, in a white suit, looked as beautiful and formidable as always. Gwyn's towering brindled horse reared as Mark approached the top of the steps. Catching sight of Emma and Jules as they strode toward him, Mark looked more than a little surprised. Emma's cheeks felt as if they must be burning, though when she looked at Julian, he seemed unruffled, cool as always. They joined Mark just as Diana swept to the top of the steps. The four Shadowhunters stared down at the Hunter--his horse's eyes were blood-red, and so was the armor that Gwyn wore: tough crimson leather, torn here and there by claw marks and the rips made by weapons. "Because of the Cold Peace, I cannot bid you welcome," Diana said. "Why are you here, Gwyn Hunter?" Gwyn's ancient gaze glided up and down Diana; there was no malice in it or arrogance, only the faerie appreciation for something beautiful. "Lovely lady," he said, "I do not think we have met." Diana looked momentarily nonplussed. "Diana Wrayburn. I'm the tutor here." "Those who teach are honored in the Land Under the Hill," said Gwyn. Under his arm he carried a massive helmet decorated with a stag's antlers. His hunting horn lay across the pommel of his saddle. Emma boggled. Was Gwyn hitting on Diana? She didn't know faeries did that, exactly. She heard Mark make an exasperated noise. "Gwyn," he said, "I give you fair greetings. My heart is gladdened to see you." Emma couldn't help wondering if any of that was true. She knew Mark had complicated feelings for Gwyn. He'd spoken of them sometimes, during the nights in her room, head on his hand. She had a clearer picture of the Wild Hunt now than she'd ever had before, of its delights and horrors, of the strange path Mark had been forced to make for himself between the stars. "I would that I could say the same," said Gwyn. "I bring dark news from the Unseelie Court. Kieran of your heart--" "He is not of my heart any longer," interrupted Mark. It was a faerie expression, "of my heart," the closest they might come to saying "girlfriend" or "boyfriend." "Kieran Hunter has been found guilty of the murder of Iarlath," said Gwyn. "He stood trial at the Court of the Unseelie, though it was a short affair." Mark flushed, tensing all over. "And the sentence?" "Death," said Gwyn. "He will die at the moon's rise, tomorrow night, if there is no intervention." Mark didn't move. Emma wondered if she should do something--move closer to Mark, offer comfort, a gentling hand? But the expression on his face was unreadable--if it was grief, she didn't recognize it. If it was anger, then it was unlike any anger he had shown before. "That is sad news," Mark said finally. It was Julian who moved then, stepping to his brother's side. Julian put a hand on Mark's shoulder; Emma felt relief flood through her. "Is that all?" Gwyn said. "Have you nothing else to say?" Mark shook his head. He looked fragile, Emma thought worriedly. As if you could see through his skin to the bones underneath. "Kieran betrayed me," he said. "He is nothing to me now." Gwyn looked at Mark in disbelief. "He loved you and he lost you and he tried to get you back," he said. "He wanted you to ride with the Hunt again. So did I. You were one of our best. Is that so terrible?" "You saw what happened." Mark did sound angry now, and Emma herself could not help but remember: the twisted quickbeam tree she had leaned against while Iarlath whipped Julian and then her, and Kieran and Mark and Gwyn watched. The pain and the blood, the lashes like fire against her skin, though nothing had hurt as much as watching Julian be hurt. "Iarlath whipped my family, my friend. Because of Kieran. He whipped Emma and Julian." "And now you have given up the Hunt for them," said Gwyn, his two-colored eyes flicking toward Emma, "and so, there is your vengeance, if you wanted it. But where is your compassion?" "What do you want of my brother?" Julian demanded, his hand still on Mark's shoulder. "Do you want him to grieve visibly for your amusement? Is that why you came?" "Mortals," Gwyn said. "You think you know so much, yet you know so little." His large hand tightened on his helmet. "I do not want you to grieve for Kieran. I want you to rescue him, Mark Hunter." Thunder rumbled in the distance, but in front of the Institute, there was only silence, profound as a shout. Even Diana seemed struck speechless. In the quiet, Emma could hear the sounds of Livvy and the others up in the training room, their voices and laughter. Jules's expression was flat. Calculating. His hand on Mark's shoulder was a tight grip now. I want you to rescue him, Mark Hunter. Anger swelled quickly inside Emma; unlike Jules, she didn't bite it back. "Mark is not of the Wild Hunt any longer," she said hotly. "Don't call him 'Hunter.' He isn't one." "He is a Shadowhunter, isn't he?" asked Gwyn. Now that he had made his bizarre request, he seemed more relaxed. "Once a hunter, always a hunter of some sort." "And now you wish me to hunt for Kieran?" Mark spoke in a strange, halting tone, as if he were having difficulty getting the words out past his anger. "Why me, Gwyn? Why not you? Why not any of you?" "Did you not hear me?" said Gwyn. "He is held captive by his father. The Unseelie King himself, in the depths of the Court." "And is Mark indestructible, then? You think he can take on the Unseelie Court where the Wild Hunt can't?" It was Diana; she had moved down a step, and her dark hair blew in the desert wind. "Yours is a famous name, Gwyn ap Nudd. You have ridden with the Wild Hunt for hundreds of mortal years. There are many stories about you. Yet never had I heard that the leader of the Wild Hunt had succumbed to madness." "The Wild Hunt is not subject to the rule of the Courts," said Gwyn. "But we fear them. It would be madness not to. When they came to take Kieran, I, and all my Hunters, were forced to swear a life oath that we would not challenge the trial or its outcome. To attempt to rescue Kieran now would mean death for us." "That's why you've come to me. Because I didn't swear. Because even if I did, I can lie. A lying thief, that's what you want," Mark said. "What I wanted was one I could trust," said Gwyn. "One who has not sworn, one who would dare the Court." "We want no trouble with you." It was Julian, keeping his voice level with an effort that Emma suspected only she could sense. "But you must see that Mark cannot do what you're asking. It is too dangerous." "We of the Folk of the Air do not fear danger, nor death," said Gwyn. "If you don't fear death," said Julian, "then let Kieran meet it." Gwyn recoiled at the coldness in Julian's voice. "Kieran is not yet twenty." "Neither is Mark," said Julian. "If you think we're afraid of you, you're right. We'd be fools not to be. I know who you are, Gwyn--I know you once made a man eat his own father's heart. I know you took the Hunt from Herne in a battle over Cadair Idris. I know things that would surprise you. But I am Mark's brother. And I will not let him risk himself in Faerie again." "The Wild Hunt is a brotherhood as well," Gwyn said. "If you cannot bring yourself to help Kieran out of love, Mark, do it out of friendship." "Enough," Diana snapped. "We respect you here, Gwyn the Hunter, but this discussion is at an end. Mark will not be taken from us." Gwyn's voice was a bass rumble. "What if he chooses to go?" They all looked at Mark. Even Julian turned, dropping his hand slowly from Mark's shoulder. Emma saw the fear in his eyes. She imagined it was echoed in her own. If Mark still loved Kieran--even a little bit-- "I do not choose it," said Mark. "I do not choose it, Gwyn." Gwyn's face tightened. "You have no honor." Light speared through gaps in the clouds overhead. The storm was moving toward the mountains. The gray illumination cast a film across Mark's eyes, rendering them unreadable. "I thought you were my friend," he said, and then he turned and stumbled back into the Institute, the door slamming shut behind him. Gwyn began to dismount, but Diana raised her hand, palm out. "You know you cannot enter the Institute," she said. Gwyn subsided. For a moment, as he gazed at Diana, his face looked lined and old, though Emma knew he was ageless. "Kieran is not yet twenty," he said again. "Only a boy." Diana's face softened, but before she could speak, Gwyn's horse reared up. Something flew from Gwyn's hand and landed on the step below Diana's feet. Gwyn leaned forward, and his horse exploded into motion, its mane and tail blurring into a single white flame. The flame shot toward the sky and vanished, disappearing into the night's fretwork of clouds. Julian shouldered the door of the Institute open. "Mark? Mark!" The empty foyer swung around him as he turned. Fear for his brother was like pressure on his skin, tightening his veins, slowing his blood. It wasn't a fear he could put a name to-- Gwyn was gone; Mark was safe. It had been a request, not a kidnapping. "Jules?" Mark appeared from the closet beneath the staircase, clearly having just hung up his jacket. His blond hair was tousled, his expression puzzled. "Did he leave?" "He's gone." It was Emma, who had come in behind Julian. Diana, a step after her, was closing the front door. Mark went straight across the room to Emma without a pause and put his arms around her. The jealousy that flared through Julian took his breath away. He thought he had gotten used to seeing Emma and Mark like this. They weren't a particularly demonstrative couple. They didn't kiss or cuddle in front of other people. Emma wouldn't, Julian thought. She wasn't like that. She was determined, and she was matter-of- fact, and she would do what needed to be done. But she wasn't cruel. It was Mark who reached for her, usually--for the small, quiet things, the hand on the shoulder, the brushing away of a stray eyelash, a quick embrace. There was an exquisite pain in watching that, more than there would have been in seeing them passionately embracing. After all, when you were dying of thirst, it was the sip of water you dreamed about, not the whole reservoir. But now--the feel of holding Emma was so close, the taste of her still on his mouth, her rose-water scent on his clothes. He would play back the scene of their kiss over and over in his head, he knew, until it faded and fragmented and came apart like a photograph folded and unfolded too many times. But it was too close now, like a just-delivered wound. And seeing Emma in Mark's arms was a sharp splash of acid on raw skin, a brutal reminder: He couldn't afford to be sentimental, or to think of her as possibly his, even in an imaginary someday. To consider possibilities was to open yourself up to pain. Reality had to be his focus--reality and his responsibilities to his family. Otherwise he would go insane. "Do you think he'll come back?" Emma drew back from Mark. Julian thought she cast him an anxious sideways glance, but he wasn't sure. And there was no point wondering. He crushed his curiosity down, brutally. "Gwyn?" said Mark. "No. I refused him. He won't beg and he won't return." "Are you sure?" Julian said. Mark gave him a wry look. "Do not let Gwyn fool you," he said. "If I do not help him, he will find someone else to do it, or he will do it himself. Kieran will come to no harm." Emma made a relieved noise. Julian said nothing--he was wondering about Kieran himself. He remembered how the faerie boy had gotten Emma whipped bloody, and broken Mark's heart. He remembered also how Kieran had helped them defeat Malcolm. Without him they would have had no chance. And he remembered what Kieran had said to him before the battle with Malcolm. You are not gentle. You have a ruthless heart. If he could have saved Kieran by risking his own safety, he would have. But he would not risk his brother. If that made him ruthless, so be it. If Mark was right, Kieran would be fine anyway. "Diana," said Emma. Their tutor was leaning against the closed front door, looking down at her palm. "What did Gwyn throw at you?" Diana held out her hand; glimmering on her brown skin was a small golden acorn. Mark looked surprised. "That is a fair gift," he said. "Should you crack open that acorn, Gwyn would be summoned to aid you." "Why would he give Diana something like that?" asked Emma. The ghost of a smile touched Mark's mouth as he began to mount the stairs. "He admired her," he said. "It is rare I have seen Gwyn admire a woman before. I had thought perhaps his heart was closed to that sort of thing." "Gwyn has a crush on Diana?" Emma inquired, her dark eyes brightening. "I mean, not that you're not very attractive, Diana, it just seems sudden." "Faeries are like that," said Julian. He almost felt for Diana--he had never seen her look so rattled. She was worrying at her lower lip with her teeth, and Julian remembered that Diana really wasn't very old--only twenty-eight or so. Not that much older than Jace and Clary. "It doesn't mean anything," she said. "And besides, we have more important things to think about!" She dropped the acorn into Mark's hand just as the front door flew open and the Centurions poured in. They looked wind-tossed and soaking wet, every one of them drenched. Diana, seeming relieved to no longer be talking about her love life, went off to find blankets and towels (drying runes notoriously worked well to dry your skin, but didn't do much for your clothes). "Did you find anything?" Emma asked. "I think we've located the likely spot where the body sank," said Manuel. "But the sea was too rough for us to dive for it. We'll have to try again tomorrow." "Manuel," Zara said warningly, as if he'd revealed the secret passcode that would open the gates to Hell under their feet. Manuel and Rayan rolled their eyes. "It's not like they don't know what we're looking for, Zara." "The Scholomance's methods are secret." Zara thrust her damp jacket into Diego's arms and turned back to Emma and Julian. "Right," she said. "What's for dinner?" "I can't tell any of them apart," said Kit. "It's the uniforms. It makes them all look the same to me. Like ants." "Ants don't all look the same," said Ty. They were sitting at the edge of the second-floor gallery overlooking the main Institute entryway below. Wet Centurions scurried to and fro; Kit saw Julian and Emma, along with Diana, trying to make conversation with the ones who hadn't wandered off to the dining room, and the fireplace there, to get warm. "Who is everyone again?" said Kit. "And where are they from?' "Dane and Samantha Larkspear," said Livvy, indicating two dark-haired Centurions. "Atlanta." "Twins," saidTy. "How dare they," said Livvy, with a grin. Kit had been worried she wouldn't be thrilled with Ty's plan to absorb Kit into his detecting plans, but she'd just given a wry smile when they'd come over to her in the training room and said, "Welcome to the club." Livvy pointed. "Manuel Casales Villalobos. From Madrid. Rayan Maduabuchi, Lagos Institute. Divya Joshi, Mumbai Institute. Not everyone's connected with an Institute, though. Diego's not, Zara isn't, or her friend Jessica, who's French, I think. And there's Jon Cartwright and Gen Whitelaw, and Thomas Aldertree, all Academy graduates." She tilted her head. "And not one of them has the sense to come in out of the rain." "Tell me again why you think they're up to something?" said Kit. "All right," said Ty. Kit had noticed already that Ty responded directly to what you said to him, and much less so to tone or intonation. Not that he couldn't use a refresher on why they were halfway up a building, staring at a bunch of jerks. "I was sitting in front of your room this morning when I saw Zara go into Diana's office. When I followed her, I saw that she was going through papers there." "She could have had a reason," said Kit. "To be sneaking through Diana's papers? What reason?" said Livvy, so firmly that Kit had to admit that if it looked scurrilous, it probably was scurrilous. "I texted Simon Lewis about Cartwright, Whitelaw, and Aldertree," said Livvy, resting her chin on the lower crossbar of the railing. "He says Gen and Thomas are solid, and Cartwright is kind of a lunk, but basically harmless." "They might not all be involved," said Ty. "We have to figure out which of them are, and what they want." "What's a lunk?" said Kit. "Sort of a combination of hunk and lump, I think. As in, large but not that smart." Livvy grinned her quick grin as a shadow rose up over them--Cristina, her hands on her hips, her eyebrows quirked. "What are you three doing?" she asked. Kit had a healthy respect for Cristina Rosales. Sweet as she looked, he'd seen her throw a balisong fifty feet and hit her target exactly. "Nothing," said Kit. "Making rude comments about the Centurions," said Livvy. For a moment, Kit thought Cristina was going to scold them. Instead she sat down next to Livvy, her mouth curling up into a smile. "Count me in," she said. Ty was resting his forearms on the crossbar. He flicked his storm-cloud-gray eyes in Kit's direction. "Tomorrow," he said quietly, "we follow them to see where they go." Kit was surprised to find he was looking forward to it. It was an uncomfortable evening--the Centurions, even after drying off, were exhausted and reluctant to talk about what they'd done that day. Instead they descended on the dining room and the food laid out there like ravenous wolves. Kit, Ty, and Livvy were nowhere to be seen. Emma didn't blame them. Meals with the Centurions were an increasingly uncomfortable affair. Though Divya, Rayan, and Jon Cartwright tried their best to hold up a friendly conversation about where everyone planned to spend their travel year, Zara soon interrupted them with a long description of what she'd been doing in Hungary before she'd arrived at the Institute. "Bunch of Shadowhunters complaining that their steles and seraph blades stopped working during a fight with some faeries," she said, rolling her eyes. "We told them it was just an illusion--faeries fight dirty, and they should be teaching that at the Academy." "Faeries don't fight dirty, actually," said Mark. "They fight remarkably cleanly. They have a strict code of honor." "Honor?" Samantha and Dane laughed at the same time. "I doubt you know what that means, ha--" They paused. It had been Dane who was speaking, but it was Samantha who flushed. The word unspoken hung in the air. Half-breed. Mark shoved his chair back and walked out of the room. "Sorry," Zara said into the silence that followed his departure. "But he shouldn't be sensitive. He's going to hear a lot worse if he goes to Alicante, especially at a Council meeting." Emma stared at her incredulously. "That doesn't make it all right," she said. "Just because he's going to hear something ugly from the bigots on the Council doesn't mean he should hear it first at home." "Or ever at home," said Cristina, whose cheeks had turned dark red. "Stop trying to make us feel guilty," Samantha snapped. "We're the ones who've been out all day trying to clean up the mess you made, trusting Malcolm Fade, like you could trust a Downworlder. Didn't you people learn anything from the Dark War? The faeries stabbed us in the back. That's what Downworlders do, and Mark and Helen will do it to you, too, if you're not careful." "You don't know anything about my brother or my sister," said Julian. "Please refrain from saying their names." Diego had been sitting beside Zara in stony silence. He spoke finally, his lips barely moving. "Such blind hatred does no credit to the office or the uniform of Centurions," he said. Zara lifted her glass, her fingers curled tightly around the slender stem. "I don't hate Downworlders," she said, and there was cool conviction in her voice. It was more chilling, somehow, than passion would have been. "The Accords haven't worked. The Cold Peace doesn't work. Downworlders don't follow our rules, or any rules that aren't in their interest to follow. They break the Cold Peace when they feel like it. We are warriors. Demons should fear us. And Downworlders should fear us. Once we were great: We were feared, and we ruled. We're a shadow now of what we were then. All I'm saying is that when the systems aren't working, when they've brought us down to the level we're at now, then we need a new system. Abetter one." Zara smiled, tucked a stray bit of hair back into her immaculate bun, and took a sip of water. They finished dinner in silence. "She lies. She just sits there and lies like her opinions are facts," said Emma furiously. After dinner, she'd retreated with Cristina to the other girl's room; they were both sitting on the bed, Cristina worrying her dark hair between her fingers. "I think they are, to her and those like her," said Cristina. "But we should not waste time on Zara. You said on the way upstairs that you had something to tell me?" As concisely as she could, Emma caught Cristina up on the visit from Gwyn. As Emma talked, Cristina's face grew more and more pinched with worry. "Is Mark all right?" "I think so--he can be really hard to read, sometimes." "He's one of those people with a lot going on in his head," said Cristina. "Has he ever asked --about you and Julian?" Emma shook her head violently. "I don't think it would ever cross his mind we had anything but parabatai feelings for each other. Jules and I have known each other so long." She rubbed at her temples. "Mark assumes Julian feels the same way about me that he does-- brotherly." "It's strange, the things that blind us," said Cristina. She drew her knees up, her hands looped around them. "Have you tried to reach Jaime?" Emma asked. Cristina leaned her cheek on the tops of her knees. "I sent a fire-message, but I haven't heard anything." "He was your best friend," Emma said. "He'll respond." She twisted a piece of Cristina's woven blanket between her fingers. "You know what I miss most? About Jules? Just--being parabatai. Being Emma and Julian. I miss my best friend. I miss the person I told everything to, all the time. The person who knew everything about me. The good things and the bad things." She could see Julian in her mind's eye as she spoke, the way he had looked during the Dark War, all thin shoulders and determined eyes. The sound of a knock on the door echoed through the room. Emma glanced at Cristina-- was she expecting someone?--but the other girl looked as surprised as she did. "Pasa," Cristina called. It was Julian. Emma looked at him in surprise, the younger Julian of her memory blurring back into the Julian standing in front of her: a nearly grown-up Julian, tall and muscular, his curls unruly, a hint of stubble prickling along his jawline. "Do you know where Mark is?" he asked, without preamble. "Isn't he in his room?" Emma said. "He left during dinner, so I thought--" Julian shook his head. "He's not there. Could he be in your room?" It cost him visible effort to ask, Emma thought. She saw Cristina bite her lip and prayed Julian wouldn't notice. He could never find out how much Cristina knew. "No," Emma said. "I locked my door." She shrugged. "I don't completely trust the Centurions." Julian ran a hand distractedly through his hair. "Look--I'm worried about Mark. Come with me and I'll show you what I mean." Cristina and Emma followed Julian to Mark's room; the door was propped wide open. Julian went in first, and then Emma and Cristina, both of them glancing around carefully as if Mark might be found hiding in a closet somewhere. Mark's room had changed a great deal since he'd first come back from Faerie. Then it had been dusty, a clearly unused space kept empty for the sake of memory. All his things had been cleared out and put into storage, and the curtains, filmed with dust, had been always drawn. It was very different now. Mark had folded his clothes in neat stacks at the foot of his bed; he'd told Emma once that he didn't see the point of a wardrobe or a dresser, since all they did was hide your clothes from you. The windowsills were covered with small items from nature--flowers in various stages of drying, leaves and cactus needles, shells from the beach. The bed was made neatly; clearly he hadn't slept in it once. Julian looked away from the too-orderly bed. "His boots are gone," he said. "He only had the one pair. They were supposed to ship more from Idris, but they haven't yet." "His jacket, too," Emma said. It had been his only heavy one, denim lined with shearling. "His bag... he had a duffel bag, didn't he?" Cristina gave a gasp. Emma and Julian both swung to look at her as she reached up for a piece of paper that had just appeared, floating at shoulder height. Glowing runes sealed it shut; they faded as she caught the fire-message out of the air. "Addressed to me," she said, tearing it open. "From Mark." Her eyes scanned the page; her cheeks paled, and she handed over the paper without a word. Julian took the message, and Emma read over his shoulder as he studied it. My dear Cristina, I know you will show this to the right people at the right time. I can always trust you to do what is necessary when it needs to he done. By now you know what has happened withKieran's arrest. Though things ended badly between us, he was my protector for many Faerie years. I owe him and cannot leave him to die in the grim Court of his father. I take the moon's road for Faerie tonight. Tell my brothers and sisters I will return to them as soon as I can. Tell Emma I will be back. I returned to them from the Land Under the Hill once before. I will do it again. Mark Blackthorn Julian crumpled the paper viciously between unsteady fingers. "I'm going after him." Emma started to reach for his arm before remembering, and dropping her hand to her side. "I'm going with you." "No," Julian said. "Do you understand what Mark's trying to do? He can't invade the Unseelie Court by himself. The King of Shadows will have him killed before you can blink." "Of course I understand," said Emma. "That's why we need to get to Mark before he makes it to an entrance to Faerie. Once he enters the Fair Folk's Lands, it'll be practically impossible to intercept him." "There is also the issue of time," said Cristina. "Once he crosses the border, time will be different for him. He could come back in three days, or three weeks--" "Or three years," said Emma grimly. "''Which is why I should go after him now," said Julian. "Before he makes it into Faerie and time starts being our enemy--" "I can help with that," Cristina said. Faeries had been Cristina's special field of study when she was growing up. She'd once confessed to Emma that this had been partly because of Mark, and what she'd learned about him as a child. He'd fascinated her, the Shadowhunter boy taken by faeries during the Dark War. Cristina touched the pendant at her throat, the golden pendant that bore an image of Raziel. "This is a faerie-blessed charm. My family has . . ." She hesitated. "Many of them. Years ago, they were close with the Fair Folk. We still have many tokens of their regard. We speak of it little, though, as the Clave's attitude toward those who befriend Fair Folk is . . ." She glanced around Mark's room. "As you know it to be." "What does the charm do?" said Emma. "It keeps time from passing too quickly for mortals in the Fair Folk's realm." Cristina held the pendant between her fingers, gazing at Jules with quiet inquiry as if to say she had many more surprises up her neat sleeves, if he cared to hear them. "It's only one pendant," said Julian. "How can it protect us all?" "If I wear it into the realm, the protection will extend to you and Emma, and Mark, too, as long as you do not go too far away from me." Julian leaned against the wall and sighed. "And I suppose you're not going to consider just giving it to me, so I can wear it into Faerie? By myself?" "Absolutely not," Cristina said primly. "It's a family heirloom." Emma could have kissed Cristina. She settled for winking at her. The corner of Cristina's lip curled up slightly. "Then the three of us will go," Emma said, and Julian seemed to realize there would be no point in disagreement. He nodded at her, and there was a little of the old parabatai look in his eye, the look that said that he expected the two of them to enter into danger. Together. "The pendant will also allow us take the moon's road," said Cristina. "Usually only those with faerie blood can access it." She squared her shoulders. "Mark will not imagine that we could follow him; that is why he sent the note." "The moon's road?" Julian said. "What is that, exactly?" At that, Cristina did smile. It was an odd smile--not quite a look of happiness, and Emma expected that she was too worried for that--but there was a little bit of wonder in it, the look of someone who was getting to experience something they never thought they'd get a chance to do. "I'll show you," she said. They gathered their things swiftly. The house was dark, unusually alive with the untidy breathing of multiple sleepers. As Julian moved down the hallway, sliding the straps of his pack over his shoulders, he saw Ty asleep in front of Kit's room, half-sitting up, his chin in his hand. A book was open beside him on the floor. Julian paused at the door to the attic. He hesitated. He could leave a note, walk away. That would be the easier thing to do. There wasn't much time; they had to get to Mark before he got to Faerie. It wouldn't be cowardly. Just practical. Just-- He shoved the door open and pounded up the stairs. Arthur was where he had left him, at his desk. Moonlight streamed in, angular, through the skylight. Arthur dropped his pen and turned to look at Julian. Gray hair framed his tired Blackthorn eyes. It was like looking at a blurred picture of Julian's father, something that had been flawed in the development process, pulling the angles of his face out of familiar alignment. "I have to leave for a few days," Julian said. "If you need anything, talk to Diana. Not to anyone else. Just Diana." Arthur's eyes seemed glazed. "You are--where are you going, Julian?" Julian considered lying. He was good at lying, and it came easily to him. But for some reason, he didn't want to. "Mark went--back," he said. "I'm going to get him, hopefully before he crosses over into Faerie." A shudder went through Arthur's body. "You're going after your brother in Faerie?" he said hoarsely, and Julian remembered the shreds of what he knew of his uncle's story--that he had been trapped with Julian's father, Andrew, in Faerie for years, that Andrew had fallen in love with a gentry woman and fathered Helen and Mark on her, but Arthur had been separated from him, locked away, tortured with enchantments. "Yes." Julian shifted his pack to one shoulder. Arthur reached his hand out, as if he meant to take Julian's, and Julian flinched back, startled. His uncle never touched him. Arthur dropped his hand. "In the republic of Rome," he said, "there was always a servant assigned to every general who won a war. When the general rode through the streets, accepting the thanks of the grateful people, the servant's task was to whisper in his ear, 'Respice post te. Hominem te esse memento. Memento mori.'" "Look behind you," Julian translated. "Remember that you are a man. Remember that you will die." A faint shiver went up his spine. "You're young, but you're not immortal," Arthur said. "If you find yourself in Faerie, and I pray that you do not, for it is Hell there if there ever was a Hell--if you find yourself there, listen to nothing the faeries tell you. Listen to none of their promises. Swear to me, Julian." Julian exhaled. He thought of that long-ago general, being exhorted not to let the glory go to his head. To remember that everything passed. Everything went. Happiness went, and so did loss and pain. Everything but love. "I swear," he said. "We have to wait for the moment," said Cristina. "Where the moon on the water seems solid. You can see it if you look--like the green flash." She smiled at Emma, who stood between Jules and Cristina, the three of them in a line at the edge of the ocean. There was little wind and the ocean stretched out before them thick and black, edged with white where the water met the sand. Surges of sea foam where the waves had broken and spent themselves on the tideline pushed seaweed and bits of shells farther up the beach. The sky had cleared from the earlier storm. The moon was high, casting a perfect, unbroken line of light across the water, reaching toward the horizon. The waves made a soft noise like whispers as they spilled around Emma's feet, the surf lapping at her waterproofed boots. Jules had his gaze on his watch--it had been his father's, a large old-fashioned mechanical watch, gleaming on his wrist. Emma saw with a slight lurch that the sea-glass bracelet she'd fashioned for him once was still on his wrist beside it, shining in the moonlight. "Almost midnight," he said. "I wonder how much of a head start Mark has." "It depends how long he had to wait for the right moment to step on the path," said Cristina. "Such moments come and go. Midnight is only one of them." "So how are we planning on capturing him?" Emma said. "Just your basic chase and tackle, or are we going to try to distract him with the power of dance, and then lasso his ankles?" "Jokes not helping," said Julian, staring at the water. "Jokes always help," said Emma. "Especially when we're not doing anything else but waiting for water to solidify--" Cristina squeaked. "Go! Now!" Emma went first, leaping over a small wave crashing at her feet. Half her brain was still telling her that she was throwing herself into water, that she'd splash down into it. The impact when her boots struck a hard surface was jarring. She took a few running steps and spun around to face the beach. She was standing on a gleaming path that looked as if it were made of hard rock crystal, cut thin as glass. The moonlight on the water had become solid. Julian was already behind her, balanced on the shimmering line, and Cristina was leaping up onto the path behind him. She heard Cristina gasp as she landed. As Shadowhunters, they had all seen wonders, but there was something distinctly Faerie about this kind of magic: It seemed to take place in the interstices of the normal world, between light and shadow, between one minute and another. As Nephilim they existed in their own space. This was Between. "Let's move," Julian said, and Emma began to walk. The path was wide; it seemed to flex and curl under her feet with the motion and ripple of the tide. It was like walking on a bridge held suspended over a chasm. Except that when she looked down, she didn't see empty space; she saw what she feared much more. The deep darkness of the ocean, where her parents' dead bodies had floated before they washed up on the shore. For years she had imagined them struggling, dying, underwater, miles of sea all around, totally alone. She knew more now about how they'd died, knew they'd been dead when Malcolm Fade had consigned their bodies to the sea. But you couldn't speak to fear, couldn't tell it the truth: Fear lived in your bones. This far out, Emma would have expected the water to be so deep it was opaque. But the moonlight made it glow as if from within. She could gaze down into it as if into an aquarium. She saw the fronds of seaweed, moving and dancing with the push and pull of the tides. The flutter of schools of fish. Darker shadows, too, bigger ones. Flickers of movement, heavy and enormous--a whale, perhaps, or something bigger and worse--water demons could grow to the size of football fields. She imagined the path breaking up suddenly, giving way, and all of them plunging into the darkness, the enormity all around them, cold and deathly and filled with blind-eyed, shark-toothed monsters, and the Angel knew what else rising up out of the deep.... "Don't look down." It was Julian, approaching on the path. Cristina was a little behind them, looking around in wonder. "Look straight ahead at the horizon. Walk toward that." She raised her chin. She could feel Jules next to her, feel the warmth coming off his skin, raising the hair along her arms. "I'm fine." "You're not." He said it flatly. "I know how you feel about the ocean." They were far out from shore now--it was a shining line in the distance, the highway a ribbon of moving lights, the houses and restaurants along the coastline glimmering. "Well, as it turns out, my parents didn't die in the ocean." She took a shuddering breath. "They didn't drown." "Knowing that doesn't wipe out years of bad dreams." Julian glanced toward her. The wind blew soft tendrils of his hair against his cheekbones. She remembered what it felt like to have her hands in that hair, how holding him had anchored her not just to the world, but to herself. "I hate feeling like this," she said, and for a moment even she wasn't sure what she was talking about. "I hate being afraid. It makes me feel weak." "Emma, everyone's afraid of something." Julian moved slightly closer; she felt his shoulder bump hers. "We fear things because we value them. We fear losing people because we love them. We fear dying because we value being alive. Don't wish you didn't fear anything. All that would mean is that you didn't feel anything." "Jules--" She started to turn toward him in surprise at the intensity in his voice, but paused when she heard Cristina's footsteps quicken, and then her voice, raised in recognition, calling: "Mark!" <|title|>Chapter 8: Near the River <|startofchapter|>Emma saw Mark immediately. A shadow out on the gleaming path before them, the moonlight sparking off his pale hair. He didn't seem to have noticed them yet. Emma began to run, Cristina and Jules at her heels. Though the path surged and dipped under her, she was used to running on the beach where the soft sand gave way under her feet. She could see Mark clearly now: He'd stopped walking, and turned to face them, looking astonished. His gear was gone. He was wearing clothes similar to the ones he'd come to the Institute in, though clean and undamaged: linen and soft, tanned hide, high laced boots and a duffel bag slung over his back. Emma could see the stars reflected in his wide eyes as she drew closer to him. He dropped the duffel bag at his feet, looking accusingly at his three pursuers. "What are you doing here?" "Seriously?" Julian kicked Mark's duffel bag aside, grabbing hold of his brother's shoulders. "What are you doing here?" Julian was taller than Mark, a fact that always struck Emma as odd--Mark had been taller for so many years. Taller and older. But he was neither now. He looked like a slim pale blade in the darkness, against Julian's more solid strength and height. He looked as if he might at any moment turn into moonlight on the waves and vanish. He turned his gaze to Cristina. "You got my fire-message." She nodded, tendrils of her dark hair, caught in a jeweled clip at the back of her head, curling around her face. "We all read it." Mark closed his eyes. "I had not thought you could follow me on the moon's road." "But we did." Julian tightened his hands on Mark's shoulders. "You're not going anywhere in Faerie, much less alone." "It's for Kieran," Mark said simply. "Kieran betrayed you," said Julian. "They will kill him, Jules," said Mark. "Because of me. Kieran killed Iarlath because of me." He opened his eyes to gaze into his brother's face. "I should not have tried to leave without telling you. That was unfair of me. I knew you would try to stop me, and I knew I had little time. I will never forgive Kieran for what happened to you and Emma, but I will not leave him to death and torture, either." "Mark, the Fair Folk aren't fond of you," said Julian. "They were forced to give you back, and they hate giving back anything they take. If you go into Faerie, they'll keep you there if they can, and it won't be easy, and they will hurt you. I won't let that happen." "Then you will be my jailer, brother?" Mark held out his hands, palms up. "You will bind my wrists in cold iron, my ankles with thorns?" Julian flinched. It was too dark to see Mark's Blackthorn features, his blue-green eye, and in the dimness the brothers seemed only a Shadowhunter and a faerie, eternally at odds. "Emma," Julian said, removing his hands from Mark's shoulders. There was a desperate bitterness in his voice. "Mark loves you. You convince him." Emma felt Julian's bitterness like thorns under her skin, and heard Mark's anguished words again: Will you be my jailer? "We aren't going to stop you from going. We're going to go with you." Even in the moonlight, she could see Mark's face lose color. "No. You're obviously Nephilim. You're in gear. Your runes aren't hidden. Shadowhunters are not well-loved in the Land Under the Hill." "Apparently only Kieran is," said Julian. "He's lucky to have your loyalty, Mark, since we don't." At that, Mark flushed and turned toward his brother, his eyes glittering angrily. "All right, stop--stop," Emma said, taking a step toward them. The shimmering water bent and flexed beneath her feet. "Both of you--" "Who walks the path of moonlight?" A figure approached, its voice a deep boom above the waves. Julian's hand went to the hilt of the dagger at his waist. Emma's seraph blade was out; Cristina had her balisong in hand. Mark's fingers had reached for the place where the elf-bolt Kieran had given him had once rested in the hollow of his throat. It was gone now. His face tightened before relaxing into recognition. "It's a phouka," he said under his breath. "Mostly, they're harmless." The figure on the path before them had drawn closer. It was a tall faerie, dressed in ragged trousers held up by a belt of rope. Thin strands of gold were woven into his long dark hair and gleamed against his dark skin. His feet were bare. He spoke, and his voice sounded like the tide at sunset. "Seek you to enter through the Gate of Lir?" "Yes," said Mark. Metallic gold eyes without irises or pupils passed over Mark, Cristina, Julian, and Emma. "Only one of you is fey," the phouka said. "The others are human. No--Nephilim." Thin lips curled into a smile. "That is a surprise. How many of you wish passage through the gate to the Shadow Lands?" "All of us," said Emma. "The four." "If the King or Queen finds you, they will kill you," said the phouka. "The Fair Folk are not friendly to the angel-blooded, not since the Cold Peace." "I am half-faerie," said Mark. "My mother was the Lady Nerissa of the Seelie Court." The phouka raised his eyebrows. "Her death grieved us all." "And these are my brothers and sisters," Mark continued, pressing his advantage. "They would accompany me; I will protect them." The phouka shrugged. "It is not my concern what befalls you in the Lands," he said. "Only that first you must pay a toll." "No payments," said Julian, his hand tightening on his dagger hilt. "No tolls." The phouka smiled. "Come here and speak to me a moment, in private, and then decide if you would pay my price. I will not force you." Julian's expression darkened, but he stepped forward. Emma strained to hear what he was saying to the phouka, but the sound of wind and waves slid between them. Behind them, the air swirled and clouded: Emma thought she could see a shape in it, arched like the shape of a door. Julian stood motionless as the phouka spoke, but Emma saw a muscle twitch in his cheek. A moment later, he unsnapped his father's watch from around his wrist and dropped it into the phouka's hand. "One payment," said the phouka loudly, as Julian turned away. "Who would come next?" "I will," said Cristina, and moved carefully across the path toward the phouka. Julian rejoined Mark and Emma. "Did he threaten you?" Emma whispered. "Jules, if he threatened you--" "He didn't," Julian said. "I wouldn't let Cristina near him if he had." Emma turned to watch as Cristina reached up and pulled the jeweled clip from her hair. It cascaded down over her back and shoulders, blacker than the night sea. She handed the clip over and began to walk back toward them, looking dazed. "Mark Blackthorn will go last," said the phouka. "Let the golden-haired girl come to me next." Emma could feel the others watching her as she went toward the phouka, Julian more intensely than the rest. She thought of the painting he'd done of her, where she'd risen above the ocean with a body made of stars. She wondered what he'd done with those paintings. If he'd thrown them all out. Were they gone, burned? Her heart ached at the thought. Such lovely work of Jules's, every brushstroke a whisper, a promise. She reached the faerie, who stood slyly smiling as his kind did when they were amused. All around them the sea stretched, black and silver. The phouka bent his head to speak to her; the wind rushed up around them. She stood with him inside a circle of cloud. She could no longer see the others. "If you're going to threaten me," she said, before he could speak, "understand that I will hunt you down for it, if not now, then later. And I will make you die for a long time." The phouka laughed. His teeth were also gold, tipped in silver. "Emma Carstairs," he said. "I see you know little about phoukas. We are seducers, not bullies. When I tell you what I tell you, you will wish to go to Faerie. You will wish to give me what I ask for." "And what do you ask for?" "That stele," he said, pointing at the one in her belt. Everything in Emma rebelled. The stele had been given to her by Jace, years ago in Idris, after the Dark War. It was a symbol of everything that had marked her life after the War. Clary had given her words, and she treasured them: Jace had given her a stele, and with it given a grief-stricken and frightened girl a purpose. When she touched the stele, it whispered that purpose to her: The future is yours now. Make it what you will. "What use could a faerie have for a stele?" she asked. "You don't draw runes, and they only work for Shadowhunters." "No use for a stele," he said. "But for the precious demon bone of the handle, quite a lot." She shook her head. "Choose something else." The phouka leaned in. He smelled of salt and seaweed baking in the sun. "Listen," he said. "If you enter Faerie, you will again see the face of someone you loved, who is dead." "What?" Shock stabbed through Emma. "You're lying." "You know I cannot lie." Emma's mouth had gone dry. "You must not tell the others what I told you, or it will not happen," said the phouka. "Nor can I tell you what it means. I am only a messenger--but the message is true. If you wish to look again upon one you have loved and lost, if you wish to hear their voice, you must pass through the Gate of Lir." Emma drew the stele from her belt. A pang went through her as she handed it over. She turned away blindly from the phouka, his words ringing in her ears. She was barely aware of Mark brushing past her, the last to speak to the water faerie. Her heart was pounding too hard. One you have loved and lost. But there were many, so many, lost in the Dark War. Her parents--but she dared not even think of them; she would lose her ability to think, to go on. The Blackthorns' father, Andrew. Her old tutor, Katerina. Maybe-- The sound of wind and waves died down. Mark stood before the phouka in silence, his face pale: All three of the others looked stricken, and Emma burned to know what the faerie had told them. What could compel Jules, or Mark, or Cristina, to cooperate? The phouka thrust out his hand. "Lir's Gate opens," he said. "Take it now, or flee back toward the shore; the moon's road begins to dissolve already." There was a sound like shattering ice, melting under spring sunlight. Emma looked down: The shining path below was riven with black where the water was springing up through cracks. Julian grabbed her hand. "We have to go," he said. Behind Mark, who stood ahead of them on the path, an archway of water had formed. It gleamed bright silver, the inside of it churning with water and motion. With a laugh, the phouka leaped from the path with an elegant dive and slipped between the waves. Emma realized she had no idea what Mark had given him. Not that it seemed to matter now. The path between them was shattering rapidly: Now it was in pieces, like ice floes in the Arctic. Cristina was on Emma's other side. The three of them pushed forward, leaping from one solid piece of path to another. Mark was gesturing toward them, shouting, the archway behind him solidifying. Emma could see green grass through it, moonlight and trees. She pushed Cristina forward; Mark caught her, and the two of them vanished through the gate. She moved to take a step forward, but the path gave way under her feet. For what seemed like much more than seconds she tumbled toward the black water. Then Julian had caught her. His arms around her, they fell together through the arch. The shadows had lengthened in the attic. Arthur sat motionless, gazing out the window with its torn paper at the moonlight over the sea. He could guess where Julian and the others were now: He knew the moon's road, as he knew the other roads of Faerie. He had been driven down them by hooting packs of pixies and goblins, riding ahead of their masters, the unearthly beautiful princes and princesses of the gentry. Once in a winter forest he had fallen, and his body had shattered the ice of a pond. He recalled watching his blood spray across the pond's silvered surface. "How pretty," a faerie lady had mused, as Arthur's blood melted into the ice. He thought of his mind that way sometimes: a shattered surface reflecting back a broken and imperfect picture. He knew his madness was not like human madness. It came and went, sometimes leaving him barely touched so he hoped it was gone forever. Then it would return, crushing him beneath a parade of people no one else could see, a chorus of voices no one else could hear. The medicine helped, but the medicine was gone. Julian had always brought the medicine, from the time he was a small boy. Arthur wasn't sure how old he was now. Old enough. Sometimes Arthur wondered if he loved the boy. If he loved any of his brother's children. There had been times he had awoken from dreams in which terrible things had happened to them with his face wet with tears. But that might have been guilt. He had lacked either the ability to raise them, or the bravery to let the Clave replace him with a better guardian. Though who would have kept them together? No one, perhaps, and family should be together. The door at the foot of the stairs creaked. Arthur turned eagerly. Perhaps Julian had thought better of his mad plan and returned. The moon's road was dangerous. The sea itself was full of treachery. He had grown up near the sea, in Cornwall, and he recalled its monsters. And bitter as blood is the spray; and the crests are as fangs that devour. Or perhaps there had never been monsters. She appeared at the top of the steps and looked at him coolly. Her hair was pulled back so tightly her skin seemed stretched. She tilted her head, taking in the cramped, dirty room, the papered-over windows. There was something in her face, something that stirred a flicker of memory. Something that made cold terror wash through him. He gripped the arms of his chair, his mind chattering with bits of old poetry. Her skin was white as leprosy, the nightmare Life-in- Death was she -- "Arthur Blackthorn, I presume?" she said with a demure smile. "I'm Zara Dearborn. I believe you knew my father." Emma landed hard on thick grass, tangled up in Julian. For a moment he was propped over her, elbows on the ground, his pale face luminous in the moonlight. The air around them was cold, but his body was warm against hers. She felt the expansion of his chest as he inhaled a sharp breath, the current of air against her cheek as he turned his face quickly away from hers. A moment later he was on his feet, reaching down to pull her up after him. But she scrambled upright on her own, spinning around to see that they were standing in a clearing surrounded by trees. The moonlight was bright enough for Emma to see that the grass was intensely green, the trees hung with fruit that was vividly colored: purple plums, red apples, star- and rose- shaped fruits that Emma didn't recognize. Mark and Cristina were there too, under the trees. Mark had pushed the sleeves of his shirt up and was holding his hands out as if he were touching the air of Faerie, feeling it on his skin. He tipped his head back, his mouth slightly open; Emma, looking at him, blushed. It felt like a private moment, as if she were watching someone reconnect with a lover. "Emma," Cristina breathed. "Look." She pointed upward, at the sky. The stars were different. They arched and whirled in patterns that Emma didn't recognize, and they had colors --icy blue, frost green, shimmering gold, brilliant silver. "It's so beautiful," she whispered. She saw Julian look over at her, but it was Mark who spoke. He no longer looked quite so abandoned to the night, but he still seemed a little dazed, as if the air of Faerie were wine and he had drunk too much. "The Hunt rode through the sky of Faerie sometimes," he said. "In the sky the stars look like the crushed dust of jewels--powdered ruby and sapphire and diamond." "I knew about the stars in Faerie," Cristina said in an awed, quiet voice. "But I never thought I would see them myself." "Should we rest?" Julian asked. He was prowling the outline of the clearing, peering between the trees. Trust Jules to ask the practical questions. "Gather our energy for traveling tomorrow?" Mark shook his head. "We can't. We must travel through the night. I know only how to navigate the Lands by the stars." "Then we're going to need Energy runes." Emma held out her arm to Cristina. It wasn't meant as a deliberate snub to Jules--runes your parabatai put on you were always more powerful--but she could still feel where his body had crashed against hers when they'd fallen. She could still feel the visceral twist inside her when his breath had ghosted against her cheek. She needed him not to be close to her right now, not to see what was in her eyes. The way Mark had looked at the sky of Faerie: that was how she imagined she looked at Julian. Cristina's touch was warm and comforting, her stele swift and skilled, its tip tracing the shape of an Energy rune onto Emma's forearm. Finished, she let Emma's wrist go. Emma waited for the usual alert, searing heat, like a double jolt of caffeine. Nothing happened. "It's not working," she said, with a frown. "Let me see--" Cristina stepped forward. She glanced down at Emma's skin, and her eyes widened. "Look." The Mark, black as ink when Cristina had placed it on Emma's forearm, was turning pale and silvery. Fading, like melting frost. In seconds it had blended back into Emma's skin and was gone. "What on earth . . . ?" Emma began. But Julian had already whirled on Mark. "Runes," he said. "Do they work? In Faerie?" Mark looked astonished. "It never occurred to me that they wouldn't," he said. "No one's ever mentioned it." "I've studied Faerie for years," Cristina said. "I've never seen it said anywhere that runes do not work in the Lands." "When was the last time you tried to use one here?" Emma asked Mark. He shook his head, blond curls falling into his eyes. He shoved them back with narrow fingers. "I can't remember," he said. "I didn't have a stele--they broke it--but my witchlight always worked--" He dug into his pocket and drew out a round, polished rune-stone. They all watched, breathless, as he held it up, waiting for the light to come, to shine brilliantly from his palm. Nothing happened. With a soft curse, Julian drew one of his seraph blades from his belt. The adamas gleamed dully in the moonlight. He turned it so that the blade lay flat, reflecting the multicolored brilliance of the stars. "Michael," he said. Something sparked inside the blade--a brief, dull gleam. Then it was gone. Julian stared at it. A seraph blade that could not be brought to life was barely more use than a plastic knife: dull-bladed, heavy, and short. With a violent jerk of his arm, Julian cast the blade aside. It skidded across the grass. He raised his eyes. Emma could sense how tightly he was holding back. She felt it like a pressure in her own body that made it hard to breathe. "So," he said. "We're going to have to journey across Faerie, a place where Shadowhunters aren't welcome, using only the stars to navigate, and we can't use runes, seraph blades, or witchlight. Is that the situation, roughly?" "I would say it's the situation exactly," said Mark. "Also, we're heading for the Unseelie Court," Emma added. "Which is supposed to be like one of those horror movies Dru likes, but less, you know, fun." "Then we will travel at night," Cristina said. She pointed into the distance. "There are landmarks that I've seen on maps. Do you see those ridges in the distance, against the sky? I think that those are the Thorn Mountains. The Unseelie Lands lie in their shadow. It is not so far away." Emma could see Mark relax at the sound of Cristina's sensible voice. It didn't seem to be working on Julian, though. His jaw was clenched, his hands rigid fists at his sides. It wasn't that Julian didn't get angry. It was that he didn't let himself show it. People thought he was quiet, calm, but that was deceptive. Emma recalled something she had read once: that volcanoes had the lushest green slopes, the loveliest and quietest aspect, because the fire that pulsed through them kept their earth from ever freezing. But when they erupted, they could rain down devastation for miles. "Jules," she said. He glanced over at her; fury gleamed behind his eyes. "We might not have witchlight, or runes, but we are still Shadowhunters. With everything that means. We can do this. We can." It felt like a clumsy speech to her, but she saw the fire die in his eyes. "You're right," he said. "Sorry." "And I'm sorry for bringing you all here," said Mark. "If I had known--about the runes-- but it must be something recent, very much so ...." "You didn't bring us here," said Cristina. "We followed you. And we all came through not just for you but because of what the phouka told each of us; isn't that true?" One you have loved and lost. "It's true for me," said Emma. She glanced at the sky. "We should get going, though. Morning is probably in just a few hours. And if we don't have Energy runes, we'll have to get our energy the old-fashioned way." Mark looked puzzled. "Drugs?" "Chocolate," Emma said. "I brought chocolate. Mark, where do you even come up with these things?" Mark smiled crookedly, shrugging one shoulder. "Faerie humor?" "I thought faeries mostly made jokes at other people's expense and played pranks on mundanes," said Julian. "Sometimes they tell very long, rhyming stories they think are hilarious," said Mark. "But I have to admit I never really understood why." Julian sighed. "That actually sounds worse than anything else I've heard about the Unseelie Court." Mark shot Julian a grateful look, as if to say that he understood that his brother had mastered his temper in part for him, for all of them, so that they would be all right. So that they could continue on their way, and find Kieran, with Julian leading them as he always did. "Come," Mark said, turning. "It is this way--we should begin walking; it may not be very many more hours until dawn." Mark headed into the shadows between the trees. Mist clung to the branches, like ropes of white and silver. Leaves rustled softly in the wind above their heads. Julian moved to walk up ahead next to his brother; Emma could hear him asking, "Puns? At least promise me there won't be puns." "The way that boys tell each other they love each other is so very odd," said Cristina as she and Emma ducked beneath a branch. "Why can't they just say it? Is it so difficult?" Emma grinned at her friend. "I love you, Cristina," she said. "And I'm glad you're getting to visit Faerie, even if it's under weird circumstances. Maybe you can find a hot faerie guy and forget about Imperfect Diego." Cristina smiled. "I love you, too, Emma," she said. "And maybe I will." Kit's list of grievances against the Shadowhunters had now gotten long enough that he'd started writing it down. Stupid hot people, he'd written, won't let me go home and get my stuff. They won't tell me anything about what it would mean to actually become a Shadowhunter. Would I have to go somewhere and train? They won't tell me how long I can stay here, except "as long as you need to." Don't I have to go to school eventually? Some kind of school? They won't talk about the Cold Peace or how it sucks. They won't let me eat cookies. He thought for a while, and then crossed that one out. They did let him eat cookies; he just suspected they were judging him for it. They don't seem to understand what autism is, or mental illness, or therapy, or medical treatment. Do they believe in things like chemotherapy? What if I get cancer? I probably won't get cancer. But if I did... They won't tell me how Tessa and Jem found my dad. Or why my dad hated Shadowhunters so much. That one was the hardest to write. Kit had always thought of his father as a small-time con man, a lovable rogue, a sort of Han Solo type, swindling his way across the galaxy. But lovable rogues didn't get torn apart by demons the moment their elaborate protection spells fell apart. And though mostly Kit was confused by what had happened at the Shadow Market, he had learned one thing: His dad had not been like Han Solo. Sometimes, in the dark watches of the night, Kit wondered who he was like himself. Speaking of the dark watches of the night, he had a new grievance to add to his list. They make me get up early. Diana, whose official title was tutor but who seemed to function as a guardian-slash-high school principal, had woken Kit up early in the morning and herded him, along with Ty and Livvy, into a corner office with an expansive view and a massive glass desk. She looked pissed off the way adults sometimes looked pissed off when they were angry at someone else, but they were going to take it out on you. Kit was correct. Diana was currently furious at Julian, Emma, Mark, and Cristina, who, according to Arthur, had disappeared to Faerie in the dead of night to rescue someone named Kieran who Kit had never met. Further discussion illuminated that Kieran was the son of the Unseelie King and Mark's ex-boyfriend, both of which were interesting pieces of information that Kit filed away for later. "This is not good," Diana finished. "Any travel to Faerie is entirely off-limits to Nephilim without special permissions." "But they'll come back, right?" Ty said. He sounded strained. " Mark will come back?" "Of course they'll come back," said Livvy. "It's just a mission. A rescue mission," she added, turning to Diana. "Won't the Clave understand they had to go?" "Rescuing a faerie--no," Diana said, shaking her head. "They are not entitled to our protection under the Accords. The Centurions can't know. The Clave would be furious." "I won't tell," said Ty. "I won't either," agreed Livvy. "Obviously." They both looked at Kit. "I don't even know why I'm here," he said. "You have a point," said Livvy. She turned to Diana. "Why is he here?" "You seem to have a way of knowing everything," Diana said to Kit. "I thought it would be better to control your information. And get a promise from you." "That I won't tell? Of course I won't tell. I don't even like the Centurions. They're ..." What I always thought Shadowhunters would he like. You're not. You're all . . . different. "Jerks," he finished. "I cannot believe," Livvy said, "that Julian and them have found a fun adventure to go on and just left the rest of us here to fetch towels for Centurions." Diana looked surprised. "I thought you'd be upset," she said. "Worried about them." Livvy shook her head. Her long hair, shades lighter than Ty's, flew around her. "That they're off having fun and getting to see Faerie? While we drudge around here? When they get back, I'm going to have words with Julian." "Which words?" Ty looked confused for a moment, before his face cleared. "Oh," he said. "You're going to curse him out." "I'm going to use every bad word I know, and look up some other ones," said Livvy. Diana was biting her lip. "You're really all right?" Ty nodded. "Cristina has studied Faerie extensively, Mark was a Hunter, and Julian and Emma are clever and brave," he said. "I'm sure they'll be fine." Diana looked stunned. Kit had to admit he was surprised too. The Blackthorns had struck him as a family so close-knit that "enmeshed" didn't begin to cover it. But Livvy kept up her cheerful annoyance when they went to tell Dru and Tavvy that the others had gone to the Shadowhunter Academy to fetch something--she was quite convincing, too, as she told them how Cristina had gone along because visiting the Academy was now a required part of one's travel year--and they repeated the same story to a glowering Diego and a bunch of Centurions, including his fiancee, who Kit had taken to calling Loathsome Zara in his mind. "In sum," Livvy finished sweetly, "you may have to launder some of your own towels. Now if you'll excuse us, Ty and I are going to take Kit here on a tour of the perimeter." Zara arched an eyebrow. "The perimeter?" "The wards you just put up," said Livvy, and marched outside. She didn't actually drag Ty and Kit after her physically, but something about the force of her personality accomplished basically the same thing. The Institute doors fell shut behind them as she was already clattering down the front steps. "Did you see the look on those Centurions' faces?" she demanded as they made their way around the massive side of the Institute. She was wearing boots and denim shorts that showed off her long, tanned legs. Kit attempted to seem as if he wasn't looking. "I don't think they appreciated what you said about washing their own towels," said Ty. "Maybe I should have drawn them a map to where the detergent is," said Livvy. "You know, since they like maps so much." Kit laughed. Livvy glanced over at him, half-suspicious. "What?" They'd passed the parking lot behind the Institute and reached a low hedge of sagebrush, behind which was a statuary garden. Greek playwrights and historians stood around in plaster poses, holding wreaths of laurel. It seemed oddly out of place, but then Los Angeles was a city of things that didn't seem like they belonged where they were. "It was funny," Kit said. "That was all." She smiled. Her blue T-shirt matched her eyes, and the sunlight found the red and copper threads in her dark brown hair and made them shine. At first Kit had been a little unnerved by how much the Blackthorns all looked like each other--except Ty, of course--but he had to admit, if you had to share family traits, luminous blue-green eyes and wavy dark hair weren't bad ones. The only things he shared with his father were moodiness and a penchant for burglary. As for his mother-- "Ty!" Livvy called. "Ty, get down from there!" They had moved far enough away from the house that they were now in real chaparral desert. Kit had only been in the Santa Monica Mountains a few times, on school trips. He remembered drinking in the air, the mix of salt and sagebrush, the soft breathless heat of the desert. Hasty green lizards bloomed like sudden leaves in between the scrub cactus, and disappeared just as quickly. Large rocks were tumbled everywhere--the castoffs of some fast-moving glacier, a million years ago. "I will when I'm done with this." Ty was busy climbing one of the largest rocks, expertly finding handholds and footholds. He hauled himself up to the top, totally unself-conscious, arms out to keep his balance. He looked as if he were getting ready to launch himself into flight, his hair blowing back like dark wings. "Is he going to be all right?" Kit asked, watching him climb. "He's a really good climber," said Livvy. "It used to freak me out when we were younger. He didn't have any kind of realistic sense of when he was in danger or wasn't. I thought he was going to fall off the rocks at Leo Carillo and smash in his head. But Jules went with him everywhere and Diana showed him how, and he learned." She looked up at her brother and smiled. Ty had raised himself up on the balls of his feet and was looking down at the ocean. Kit could almost imagine him on a desolate plain somewhere, with a black cloak flapping around him like a hero in a fantasy illustration. Kit took a deep breath. "You didn't really believe what you told Diana," he said to Livvy. She whipped around to stare at him. "About not being worried about Julian and the others." "Why do you think that?" Her tone was carefully neutral. "I've been watching you," he said. "All of you." "I know." She looked up at him with her bright eyes, half-amused. "It's like you've been taking mental notes." "Habit. My dad taught me everyone in the world was divided into two categories. Those you could trick and cheat and the ones you couldn't. So you observe people. Try to figure out what they're about. How they tick." "How do we tick?" "Like a very complicated machine," said Kit. "You're all intertwined--one of you moves a little and that drives the others. And if you move the other way, that directs what they do too. You're more connected than any family I've seen. And you can't tell me you're not worried about Julian and the others--I know you are. I know what you people think about the Fair Folk." "That they're evil? It's a lot more complicated than that, believe me." Livvy's blue gaze darted away, toward her brother. Ty was lying down on his back on the rock now, barely visible. "So why would I lie to Diana?" "Julian lies to protect all of you," said Kit. "If he's not around, then you'll lie to protect the younger ones. Nothing to worry about, Julian and Mark are off to the Unseelie Court, hope they send a postcard, wish we were there." Livvy seemed poised between irritation and relief--angry that Kit had guessed the truth, relieved there was someone with whom she didn't have to pretend. "Do you think I convinced Diana?" she said finally. "I think you convinced her you weren't worried," said Kit. "She's still worried. She's probably pulling whatever strings she's got to pull to figure out how to find them." "We're pretty low on strings here, you might have noticed," Livvy said. "As Institutes go, we're a weird one." "I don't really have a lot of points of reference. But I believe you." "So you didn't actually tell me." Livvy tucked a piece of hair behind her ear. "Are we the kind of people you can trick and cheat, or not?" "Not," said Kit. "But not because you're Shadowhunters. Because you genuinely seem to care about each other more than you care about yourselves. Which makes it hard to convince you to be selfish." She took a few steps away, reaching out to touch a small red flower blooming on a silvery- green hedge. When she turned back to Kit, her hair was blowing around her face, and her eyes were unnaturally bright. For a moment, he worried she might be about to cry, or yell at him. "Kiss me," she said. Kit didn't know where he'd thought the conversation was going, but definitely not there. He just managed not to start coughing. "What'?" "You heard me." She moved back toward him, pacing slowly and deliberately. He tried not to stare at her legs again. "I asked you to kiss me." "Why?" She was starting to smile. Behind her, Ty was still balanced on his rock, gazing out to sea. "Haven't you ever kissed anyone before?" she inquired. "Yes. I'm not sure how that's relevant, though, to you wanting me to kiss you right now, right here." "Are you sure you're a Herondale? I'm pretty sure a Herondale would lunge at this kind of opportunity." She crossed her arms over her chest. "Is there some reason you don't want to kiss me?" "For one, you have a terrifying older brother," said Kit. "I do not have a terrifying older brother." "That's true," Kit said. "You have two." "Fine," Livvy said, dropping her arms and turning away. "Fine, if you don't want to--" Kit caught her shoulder. It was warm under his grasp, the heat of her skin tactile through the thin material of her T-shirt. "I do, though." To his surprise, he meant it. His world was sliding away from him; he felt as if he were falling toward something, a dark unknown, the ragged edge of unwanted choices. And here was a pretty girl offering him something to cling to, a way to forget, something to catch and hold, even if only for a moment. The pulse fluttered lightly in her neck as she half-turned her head, her hair brushing his hand. "All right," she said. "But tell me one thing. Why me? Why do you want to kiss me?" "I've never kissed anyone," she said in a low voice. "In my whole life. I hardly ever meet anyone. It's us alone, against the whole world, and I don't mind that, I'd do anything for my family, but I feel like I'm missing all the chances I should have. You're my age, and you're a Shadowhunter, and you don't get on my nerves. I don't have that many options." "You could kiss a Centurion," Kit suggested. She turned around completely at that, his hand still on her shoulder, her expression indignant. "Okay, I guess that suggestion was a little out of bounds," he admitted. The urge to kiss her had become overwhelming, so he gave up trying not to, and curved his arm around her shoulder, pulling her closer. Her eyes widened, and then she tilted her head back, her mouth angled toward his and their mouths slanted together surprisingly gently. It was soft and sweet and warm, and she moved into the circle made by his arm, her hands coming to rest at first hesitantly and then with greater purpose on his shoulders. She gripped tightly, pulling him in, his eyes shutting against the blue dazzle of the ocean in the distance. He forgot the ground under his feet, the world around him, everything but the sense of being comforted by someone holding him. Someone caring. "Livvy. Ty! Kit!" It was Diana's voice. Kit snapped out of his daze and let Livvy go; she moved away from him looking surprised, one hand rising to touch her lips. "All of you!" Diana called. "Get back here, now! I need your help!" "So how was it?" Kit asked. "Okay for your first?" "Not bad." Livvy lowered her hand. "You really put your back into it. I didn't expect that." "Herondales don't do perfunctory kisses," said Kit. There was a brief flurry of movement, and Ty was down from the rock he'd climbed, picking his way toward them through the desert scrub. Livvy gave a short, soft laugh. "I think that's the first time I've heard you call yourself a Herondale." Ty joined them, his pale oval face unreadable. Kit couldn't tell anything from his expression--whether he'd seen Kit and Livvy kiss or not. Though what reason would he have to care if he had? "Looks like it's going to be clear tonight," he said. "No clouds coming in." Livvy said something about better weather for following suspicious Centurions, and she was already moving to walk next to Ty, like she always did. Kit followed after them, hands in the pockets of his jeans, though he could feel the Herondale ring, heavy on his finger, as if he had only now remembered the weight. The Land Under the Hill. The Delightful Plain. The Place Beneath the Wave. The Lands of the Ever- Young. As the hours wore on, all the names Emma had ever heard for Faerieland ran through her head. Conversation between the four of them had grown quieter and fallen eventually into an exhausted silence; Cristina trudged along beside Emma wordlessly, her pendant glimmering in the moonlight. Mark led the way, checking their path against the stars every short while. In the distance the Thorn Mountains became clearer and closer, rising stark and unforgettable against a sky the color of blackened sapphire. The mountains weren't often visible, though. Mostly the path they followed wound through low-hanging trees that grew close together, boughs occasionally intertwining. More than once Emma would catch a glimpse of bright eyes flashing out from between the shadows. When tree branches rustled, she would look up to catch sight of shadows moving quickly above them, laughter trailing behind them like mist. "These are the places of the wild fey," said Mark, as the road curved around a hill. "The gentry fey stay within the Courts or sometimes town. They like their creature comforts." Here and there were signs of habitation: crumbled mossy bits of old stone walls, wooden fences cleverly fitted together without the use of nails. They passed through several villages in the hour before dawn: Every one of them was shuttered and dark, windows broken and empty. As they went farther into Faerie they began to see something else, too. The first time they saw it, Emma stopped short and exclaimed--the grass they'd been walking on had suddenly dissolved under her feet, puffing up white and gray like ash around her ankles. She looked around in astonishment and discovered that the others were staring too. They had wandered into the edge of a ragged circle of diseased-looking land. It reminded Emma of photos she'd seen of crop circles. Everything within the perimeter of the circle was a dull, sickly whitish gray: the grass, the trees, the leaves and plants. The bones of small animals were scattered among the gray vegetation. "What is this?" Emma demanded. "Some kind of dark faerie magic?" Mark shook his head. "I have never seen any blight such as this before. I do not like it. Let us make haste away." No one argued, but as they hurried through the ghost towns and across the hills, they saw several more patches of the ugly blight. At last the sky began to turn light with dawn. All of them were nearly dropping with exhaustion when they left the road behind and found themselves in a place of trees and rolling hills. "We can rest here," Mark said. He pointed to a rise of ground opposite, whose top was hidden by a number of stone cairns. "Those will give some shelter, and some cover." Emma frowned. "I hear water," she said. "Is there a stream?" "You know we can't drink the water here," Julian said, as she picked her way downhill, toward the sound of fluid bubbling over rocks and around tree roots. "I know, but we could at least wash off in it--" Her voice died. There urns a stream, of sorts, bisecting the valley between the two low hills, but the water wasn't water. It was scarlet, and thick. It moved sluggishly, slow and red and dripping, between the black trunks of trees. "'All the blood that's shed on earth, runs through the springs of that country,"' said Mark, at her elbow. "You quoted that to me." Julian moved to the edge of the blood stream and knelt down. With a quick gesture, he dipped his fingers in. They came out scarlet. "It clots," he said, frowning in mixed fascination and disgust, and wiped his hand off on the grass. "Is it really--human blood?" "That's what they say," said Mark. "Not all the rivers of faerie are like this, but they claim that the blood of the murdered dead of the human world runs through the streams and creeks and springs here in the woods." "Who is they?" Julian asked, standing up. "Who says that?" "Kieran," said Mark simply. "I know the story too," said Cristina. "There are different versions of the legends, but I have heard many and most say that the blood is human, mundane blood." She backed up, took a running jump, and landed on the other side of the bloody stream with some feet to spare. The rest of them followed her, and trudged up the hill to the flat, grassy top, which commanded a view of the surrounding countryside. Emma suspected the cairns of crumbled stones had once been a watchtower of some sort. They unrolled the blankets they had and spread out coats, huddling under them for warmth. Mark curled up and immediately fell asleep. Cristina lay down more cautiously, her body wrapped in her dark blue coat, her long hair spilling over the arm on which her head rested. Emma found a place for herself in the grass, folding her gear jacket up to make a pillow. She had nothing to wrap herself in, and shivered when her skin touched the cold ground as she reached to balance Cortana carefully on a nearby stone. "Emma." It was Julian, rolling over toward her. He'd been so still she'd thought he was asleep. She didn't even remember lying down this close to him. In the dawn light, his eyes glowed like sea glass. "I've got a spare blanket. Take it." It was soft and gray, a thin coverlet that used to lie across the foot of his bed. Forcibly, Emma pushed away memories of waking up with it bunched around her feet, yawning and stretching in the sunlight of Julian's room. "Thanks," she whispered, sliding under the blanket. The grass was dampening with dew. Julian was still watching her, his head resting on his curved arm. "Jules," Emma whispered. "If our witchlight doesn't work here, and seraph blades don't work here, and runes don't work here--what does that mean?" He sounded weary. "When I looked into an inn, in one of the towns we passed, I saw an angelic rune someone had scrawled on a wall. It was splattered in blood--scratched and defaced. I don't know what's happened here since the Cold Peace, but I know they hate us." "Do you think Cristina's pendant will still work?" Emma said. "I think it's just Shadowhunter magic that's blocked here," Julian said. "Cristina's pendant was a faerie gift. It should be all right." Emma nodded. "Good night, Jules," she whispered. He smiled faintly. "It's morning, Emma." She didn't say anything, only closed her eyes--but not all the way, so she could still see him. She hadn't slept near him since that terrible day Jem had told her about parabatai and their curse, and she didn't realize how much she had missed it. She was exhausted, her tiredness seeping out of her bones and into the ground beneath her as her aching body relaxed; she had forgotten what it was like to let consciousness go slowly, as the person she trusted most in the world lay beside her. Even here in Faerie, where Shadowhunters were hated, she felt safer than she had in her own bedroom alone, because Jules was there, so close that if she'd reached out, she could have touched him. She couldn't reach out, of course. Couldn't touch him. But they were breathing close together, breathing the same breath as consciousness fragmented, as Emma let go of wakefulness and fell, the image of Julian in the dawn light following her down into dreams. <|title|>Chapter 9: These Lands <|startofchapter|>Kit soon had a new item to add to his list of things he didn't like about Shadowhunters. They wake me up in the middle of the night. It was Livvy who woke him up specifically, shaking him out of a dream of Mantid demons. He sat up, gasping, a knife in his hand--one of the daggers he'd taken from the weapons room. It had been on his nightstand and he had no recollection of picking it up. "Not bad," Livvy said. She was hovering over his bed, her hair tied back, her gear half- invisible in the darkness. "Fast reflexes." The knife was about an inch from her chest, but she didn't move. Kit let it clatter back to the nightstand. "You have got to be kidding me." "Get up," she said. "Ty just saw Zara sneak out the front door. We're Tracking her." "You're what?" Kit got yawning out of bed, only to be handed a pile of dark clothes by Livvy. She raised her eyebrows at the sight of his boxers but made no other comment. "Put your gear on," she said. "We'll explain on the way." She headed out of the room, leaving Kit to change. He had always wondered what Shadowhunter gear would feel like. The boots, pants, shirt, and jacket of sturdy, dark material and heavy weapons belt looked uncomfortable, but--they weren't. The gear was light and flexible on, despite being so tough that when he took the dagger from his bedside and tried to cut the arm of the jacket, the blade didn't even part the material. The boots seemed to fit immediately, like the ring, and the weapons belt sat light and snug around his hips. "Do I look all right?" he asked, appearing in the hall. Ty was gazing thoughtfully at his closed right hand, a rune glimmering on the back of it. Livvy gave Kit a thumbs-up. "You absolutely could have been rejected from the yearly Hot Shadowhunters Calendar." "Rejected?" Kit demanded as they started downstairs. Her eyes were dancing. "For being too young, of course." "There is no Hot Shadowhunters Calendar," said Ty. "Both of you be quiet; we need to get out of the house without being spotted." They crept out the back way and down the road toward the beach, careful to avoid the night patrol. Livvy whispered to Kit that Ty was holding a hair clip that Zara had left on a table: It worked as a sort of homing beacon, pulling him in her direction. She seemed to have gone down to the beach and then walked along the sand. Livvy pointed to her footprints, in the process of being washed away by the rising tide. "It could have been a mundane," said Kit, for argument's sake. "Following this exact path?" Livvy said. "Look, we're even zigging and zagging where she did." Kit couldn't really argue. He set his mind to keeping up with Ty, who was practically flying over the dunes of sand and the boulders and uneven rocks that dotted the coastline more thickly as they moved north. He scaled an alarmingly tall wall of pitted rock and dropped down on the other side; Kit, following, almost tripped and landed face-first in the sand. He managed to regain his footing and was relieved. He wasn't sure who he least wanted to look like a fool in front of, Livvy or Ty. Maybe it was an equal split. "There," Ty said in a whisper, pointing to where a dark hole opened up in the rocky wall of the bluff that rose to divide the beach from the highway. Tumbled piles of rock jutted out into the ocean, where waves broke around them, casting silvery-white spray high into the air. The sand had given way to rocky reef. They picked their way carefully across it, even Ty, who bent to examine something in a tide pool. He straightened with a smile and a starfish in his hand. "Ty," said Livvy. "Put it back, unless you're planning on throwing it at Zara." "Waste of a perfectly good starfish," muttered Kit, and Ty laughed. The salt air had tangled his arrow-straight black hair, and his eyes glowed like the moonlight on the water. Kit just stared, unable to think of anything else clever to say, as Ty gently placed the starfish back in its tide pool. They made it to the cave opening without any other stops for wildlife. Livvy went in first, with Ty and Kit following. Kit paused as the darkness of the cave enveloped him. "I can't see," he said, trying to fight his rising panic. He hated the pitch dark, but then who didn't? Light burst around him like the sudden appearance of a falling star. It was witchlight; Ty was holding it. "Do you want a Night Vision rune?" Livvy asked, her hand on her stele. Kit shook his head. "No runes," he said. He wasn't sure why he was insisting. It wasn't as if the iratze had hurt. It just seemed like the final hurdle, the last admission that he was a Shadowhunter, not just a boy with Shadowhunter blood who had decided to make the Institute a way station while he figured out a better plan. Whatever that plan might be. Kit tried not to brood on it as they advanced deeper into the tunnels. "Do you think this is part of the convergence?" he heard Livvy whisper. Ty shook his head. "No. The bluffs of the coast are riddled with caves, always have been. I mean, anything could be down here--nests of demons, vampires--but I don't think this has anything to do with Malcolm. And the ley lines are nowhere near here." "I really wish you hadn't said 'nests of demons,'" said Kit. "It makes them sound like spiders." "Some demons are spiders," said Ty. "The biggest one ever reported was twenty feet tall and had yard-long mandibles." Kit thought of the giant praying mantis demons that had ripped his father apart. It was hard to think of anything witty to say about a giant spider when you'd seen the white of your father's rib cage. "Shh." Livvy held up a hand. "I hear voices." Kit strained his ears, but heard nothing. He suspected there was another rune he was lacking, something that would give him Superman hearing. He could see lights moving up ahead, though, around the curve of the tunnel. They moved ahead, Kit staying to the rear of Ty and Livvy. The tunnel opened out into a massive chamber, a room with cracked granite walls, a packed-earth floor, and a smell of mold and decay. The ceiling rose into blackness. There was a wooden table and two chairs in the middle of the room. The only light came from rune-stones placed on the table; one chair was occupied by Zara. Kit pressed himself instinctively back against the wall; on the other side of the tunnel, Livvy and Ty did the same. Zara was examining some papers she'd spread on the table. There was a bottle of wine and a glass at her elbow. She wasn't dressed in gear, but in a plain dark suit, her hair drawn back into an impossibly tight bun. Kit strained to see what she was studying, but he was too far away. He could read some words etched into the table, though: fire wants to burn. He had no idea what they meant. Zara didn't seem to be doing anything interesting, either; maybe she just came here to have privacy for her reading. Maybe she was secretly tired of Perfect Diego and was hiding. Who could blame her? Zara looked up, her eyebrows creasing. Someone was coming--Kit heard the quick tread of feet, and a tousle-haired figure in jeans appeared at the far end of the room. "It's Manuel," Livvy whispered. "Maybe they're having an affair?" "Manu," Zara said, frowning. She didn't sound lovelorn. "You're late." "Sorry." Manuel grinned a disarming grin and grabbed for the free chair, swinging it around so he could seat himself with his arms folded over the back. "Don't be cross, Zara. I had to wait until Rayan and Jon fell asleep--they were in a chatty mood, and I didn't want to chance anyone seeing me leave the Institute." He indicated the papers. "What have you got there?" "Updates from my father," Zara said. "He was disappointed about the outcome of the last Council, obviously. The decision to let that half-breed Mark Blackthorn remain among decent Nephilim would offend anyone." Manuel picked up her glass of wine. Red lights glinted in its depths. "Still, we must look to the future," he said. "Getting rid of Mark wasn't the point of our journey here, after all. He's a minor annoyance, like his siblings." Ty, Kit, and Livvy exchanged confused looks. Livvy's face was tight with anger. Ty's was expressionless, but his hands moved restlessly at his sides. "True. The first step is the Registry," Zara said. She patted the papers, making them rustle. "My father says the Cohort is strong in Idris, and they believe the Los Angeles Institute is ripe for the plucking. The incident with Malcolm sowed considerable doubt in the West Coast's ability to make judgments. And the fact that the High Warlock of Los Angeles and the head of the local vampire clan both turned out to be enmeshed in dark magic--" "That wasn't our fault," Livvy whispered. "There was no way to possibly know--" Ty shushed her, but Kit had missed the last of what Zara was saying. He was only conscious of her grin like a dark red slash across her face. "Confidence isn't very high," she finished. "And Arthur?" said Manuel. "The putative head of the place? Not that I've laid eyes on him once." "A lunatic," said Zara. "My father told me he suspected as much. He knew him at the Academy. I talked to Arthur myself. He thought I was someone named Amatis." Kit glanced at Livvy, who gave a puzzled shrug. "It will be easy enough to put him up in front of the Council and prove he's a madman," said Zara. "I can't say who's been running the Institute in his stead--Diana, I imagine--but if she'd wanted the head position, she'd have taken it already." "So your father steps in, the Cohort makes sure he carries the vote, and the Institute is his," said Manuel. "Ours," Zara corrected. "I will run the Institute by his side. He trusts me. We'll be a team." Manuel didn't seem impressed. He'd probably heard it before. "And then, the Registry." "Absolutely. We'll be able to propose it as Law immediately, and once it passes, we can begin the identifications." Zara's eyes glittered. "Every Downworlder will wear the sign." Kit's stomach lurched. This was close enough to mundane history to make him taste bile in the back of his throat. "We can start at the Shadow Market," said Zara. "The creatures congregate there. If we take enough of them into custody, we should be able to seize the rest for registration soon enough." "And if they're not inclined to be registered, then they can be convinced easily enough with a little pain," said Manuel. Zara frowned. "I think you enjoy the torture, Manu." He leaned forward, elbows on the table, his face open and handsome and charming. "I think you do too, Zara. I've seen you admiring my work." He flexed his fingers. "You just don't want to admit it in front of Perfect Diego." "Seriously? They call him that too?" Kit muttered under his breath. Zara tossed her head, but Manuel was grinning. "You're going to have to tell him eventually, about the Cohort's full plans," he said. "You know he won't approve. He's a Downworlder-lover if there ever was one." Zara made a disgusted noise. "Nonsense. He's nothing like that disgusting Alec Lightwood and his stupid Alliance and his repulsive demon-spawn boyfriend. The Blackthorns may be faerie-loving morons, but Diego's just... confused." "What about Emma Car stairs?" Zara began gathering up the pages of her father's letter. She didn't look at Manuel. "What about her?" "Everyone says she's the best Shadowhunter since Jace Herondale," said Manuel. "A title I know you've long coveted for yourself." "Vanessa Ashdown says she's a boy-crazy slut," said Zara, and the ugly words seemed to echo off the rock walls. Kit thought of Emma with her sword, Emma saving his life, Emma hugging Cristina and looking at Julian like he hung the moon, and he wondered if he could get away with stomping on Zara's foot the next time he saw her. "And I haven't been particularly impressed by her in person. She's quite, quite ordinary." "I'm sure she is," said Manuel as Zara rose to her feet, papers in hand. "I still don't understand what you see in Diego." "You wouldn't. It's a family alliance." "An arranged marriage? How mundane and medieval." Manuel grabbed for the rune- stones on the table, and for a moment the light in the room seemed to dance, a wild pattern of shine and shadow. "So, are we heading back?" "We'd better. If anyone sees us, we can say we were checking the wards." Zara crumpled the pages of her father's letter and stuffed them into her pocket. "The Council meets soon. My father will read out my letter to him there, stating Arthur Blackthorn's inability to run an Institute, and then announce his own candidacy." "They won't know what hit them," said Manuel, sliding his hands into his pockets. "And when it's all over, of course..." "Don't worry," Zara said irritably. "You'll get what you want. Though it would be better if you were more committed to the cause." She had already turned away; Kit saw Manuel's eyes glint beneath his lashes as he looked after her. There was something in his expression--an unpleasant sort of hunger, though whether it was desire for Zara or something far more arcane, Kit couldn't tell. "Oh, I'm committed," said Manuel. "I'd like to see the world burned clean of Downworlders as much as you, Zara. I just don't believe in doing something for nothing." Zara glanced back over her shoulder as she moved into the corridor Manuel had used as an entrance. "It won't be nothing, Manu," she said. "I can promise you that." And they were gone, leaving Kit, Ty, and Livvy to huddle together in the mouth of the tunnel, stunned into silence. The sound that woke Cristina was so faint she thought at first she might have imagined it. She lay, still tired, blinking against the foggy sunlight. She wondered how long it would be until sundown, when they could navigate by the stars again. The sound came again, a sweet far-calling cry, and she sat up, shaking her hair back. It was wet with dew. She combed her fingers through it, wishing for something to tie it back with. She hardly ever wore her hair down like this, and the weight against her neck was bothersome. She could see Julian and Emma, both asleep, hunched figures on the ground. But where was Mark? His blanket was discarded, his boots lying beside it. The sight of the boots made her scramble up to her feet: They'd all been sleeping with their shoes on, just in case. Why would he take his off? She thought about waking up Emma, but likely she was being ridiculous: He'd probably just gone for a walk. She reached to pull her butterfly knife out of her weapons belt and started down the hill, moving past Jules and Emma as she did. She saw with a sort of pang at her heart that their hands, between them, were clasped: Somehow they'd found their way toward each other in sleep. She wondered if she should reach down, gently separate them. But no, she couldn't do that. There was no way to gently separate Jules and Emma. The mere action of separating them at all was like an act of violence, a tear in the fabric of the world. There was still heavy mist everywhere, and the sun pierced through it dimly in several places, creating a glowing white veil she could see through only in patches. "Mark?" she called softly. "Mark, where are you?" She caught the sound she had heard before again, and now it was clearer: music. The sound of a pipe, the twang of a harp string. She strained to hear more--and then nearly screamed as something touched her shoulder. She whirled and saw Mark in front of her, holding his hands up as if to ward her off. "I didn't mean to startle you," he said. "Mark," she breathed, and then paused. "Are you Mark? Faeries weave illusions, don't they?" He cocked his head to the side. His blond hair fell across his forehead. She remembered when it had hit his shoulders, as if he were the illustration of a faerie prince in a book. Now it was short, soft and curling. She had given him a modern haircut, and it seemed odd suddenly, out of place in Faerie. "I cannot hear my heart or what it tells me," he said. "I can only hear the wind." It was one of the first things he had ever said to her. "It is you," she said, exhaling with relief. "What are you doing? Why aren't you sleeping? We need to rest, if we are to arrive at the Unseelie Court by moon's rise." "Can't you hear the music?" he said. It was louder now, the very clear sounds of fiddles and woodwinds, and the sound of dancing, too--laughter, and the stamp of feet. "It's a revel." Cristina's heart skipped a beat. Faerie revels were things out of legend. The Fair Folk danced to enchanted music, and drank enchanted wine, and sometimes they would dance for days. The food they ate made you delirious or love-struck or mad ... it could pierce your dreams.... "You should go back to sleep," Mark said. "Revels can be dangerous." "I've always wanted to see one." A surge of rebellion went through her. "I'm going to go closer." "Cristina, don't." He sounded breathless as she turned and moved down the hill toward the noise. "It's the music--it's making you want to dance--" She whirled around, a curl of black hair sticking to her damp cheek. "You brought us here," she said, and then she plunged on, toward the music, and it rose up and surrounded her, and she could hear Mark, swearing but following after her. She reached a field at the foot of the hill and stopped to stare. The field was full of blurred, colorful movement. All around her the music echoed, piercingly sweet. And everywhere, of course, there were Fair Folk. A troupe of faeries in the center of the dancers, playing their instruments, their heads thrown back, their feet stamping the ground. There were green-skinned wood faeries dancing, with gnarled hands and eyes that glowed yellow as sap. Faeries blue and green and shimmering as water, with hair like transparent netting cascading down to their feet. Beautiful girls with flowers wound through their hair, tied around their waists and throats, whose feet were hooves: pretty boys in ragged clothes with fever-bright eyes who held out their hands as they spun by. "Come and dance," they called. "Come and dance, beautiful girl, chica bella, come and dance with us." Cristina began to move toward them, toward the music and the dancing. The field was still clouded with fog, carving its streaks of white across the ground and hiding the blue of the sky. The mist glowed as she moved into it, heavy with strange scents: fruit and wine and incense-like smoke. She began to dance, moving her body to the music's rhythm. Exhilaration seemed to pour into her with every breath she took in. She was suddenly no longer the girl who had let Diego Rosales fool her not once, but twice, not the girl who followed rules and trusted people until they broke her trust as casually as knocking a glass off a table. No longer the girl who stood back and let her friends be wild and crazy and waited to catch them when they fell. Now she was the one falling. Hands seized her, spinning her around. Mark. His eyes were flashing. He pulled her up close against him, his arms slipping around her, but his grip was unyielding with anger. "What are you doing, Cristina?" he asked in a low voice. "You know about faeries, you know this is dangerous." "That's why I'm doing it, Mark." She hadn't seen him look so furious since Kieran had come riding up to the Institute with Iarlath and Gwyn. She felt a small, secret pulse of excitement inside her chest, that she could make him that angry. "They hate Shadowhunters here, don't you remember?" he said. "They don't know I'm a Shadowhunter." "Believe me," said Mark, leaning in close so that she could feel his breath, hot, against her ear. "They know." "Then they don't care," said Cristina. "It's a revel. I've read about these. Faeries lose themselves in the music, like humans. They dance and they forget, just like us." Mark's hands curved around her waist. It was a protective gesture, she told herself. It didn't mean anything. But her pulse quickened regardless. When Mark had first arrived at the Institute, he'd been stick-thin, hollow-eyed. Now she could feel muscle over his bones, the hard strength of him against her. "I never asked you," he said, as they moved among the crowd. They were close to two girls dancing together; both of them had their black hair bound up in elaborate crowns of berries and acorns. They wore dresses of russet and brown, ribbons around their slim throats, and swished their skirts away from Mark and Cristina, laughing at the couple's clumsiness. Cristina didn't mind. "Why faeries? Why did you make that the thing you studied?" "Because of you." She tilted her head back to look up at him, saw the surprise that passed across his expressive face. The beginning of the gentle curves of wonder at the corners of his mouth. "Because of you, Mark Blackthorn." Me? His lips shaped the word. "I was in my mother's rose garden when I heard what had happened to you," she said. "I was only thirteen. The Dark War was ending, and the Cold Peace had been announced. The whole Shadowhunter world knew of your sister's exile, and that you had been abandoned. My great-uncle came out to tell me about it. My family always used to joke that I was softhearted, that it was easy to make me cry, and he knew I'd been worrying about you--so he told me, he said, 'Your lost boy will never be found now.'" Mark swallowed. Emotions passed like storm clouds behind his eyes; not for him Julian's guardedness, his shields. "And did you?" "Did I what?" "Did you cry?" he said. They were still moving together, in the dance, but it was almost mechanical now: Cristina had forgotten the steps her feet were taking, she was aware only of Mark breathing, her fingers locked behind Mark's neck, Mark in her arms. "I did not cry," Cristina said. "But I did decide that I would dedicate myself to eradicating the Cold Peace. It was not a fair Law then. It will never be a fair Law." His lips parted. "Cristina--" A voice like doves interrupted them. Soft, feathery, and light, it crooned, "Drinks, madam and sir? Something to cool you after dancing?" A faerie with a face like a cat's--furred and whiskered--stood before them in the tatters of an Edwardian suit. He held a gold plate on which were many small glasses containing liquid of different colors: blue, red, and amber. "Is it enchanted?" Cristina said breathlessly. "Will it give me strange dreams?" "It will cool your thirst, lady," said the faerie. "And all I would ask for in return is a smile from your lips." Cristina seized up a glass full of amber fluid. It tasted of passionfruit, sweet and tart--she took one swallow, and Mark dashed the glass from her hand. It fell tinkling at their feet, splashing his hand with liquid. He licked the fluid from his skin, glaring at her all the while. Cristina backed away. She could feel a pleasant warmth spreading in her chest. The drinks seller was snapping at Mark, who pushed him away with a coin--a mundane penny--and started after Cristina. "Stop," he said. "Cristina, slow down, you're going toward the center of the revel--the music will only be stronger there--" She stopped, held out a hand to him. She felt fearless. She knew she ought to be terrified: She had swallowed a faerie drink, and anything might happen. But instead she only felt as if she were flying. She was soaring free, only Mark here to tether her to the ground. "Dance with me," she said. He caught at her. He looked angry, still, but he held her tightly nonetheless. "You've had enough dancing. And drinking." "Enough dancing?" It was the girls in russet again, their red mouths laughing. Other than their different-colored eyes, they looked nearly identical. One of them pulled the ribbon from around her throat--Cristina stared; her neck was horribly scarred, as if her head had nearly been severed from her body. "Dance together," the girl said--nearly spat it, as if it were a curse, and looped the ribbon around Mark's and Cristina's wrists, binding them together. "Enjoy the binding, Hunter." She grinned at Mark, and her teeth were black, as if they had been painted that color, and sharp as needles. Cristina gasped, stumbling back, pulling Mark after her, the ribbon connecting them. It stretched like a rubber band, not breaking or fraying. Mark caught up to her, seizing her hand in his, his fingers threaded through hers. He drew her after him, fast and sure-footed on the uneven terrain, finding the breaks in the heavy mist. They pushed between dancing couples until the grass under them was no longer trampled and the music was faint in their ears. Mark veered to the side, making for a copse of trees. He slipped under the branches, holding the low-hanging ones aside to let Cristina in after him. Once she had ducked underneath, he released them, closing them both into a dirt-floored space beneath the trees, hidden from the outside world by long branches, laden with fruit, that touched the ground. Mark sat down, drawing a knife from his belt. "Come here," he said, and when Cristina came to sit beside him, he took her hand and slashed apart the ribbon binding them. It made a little shrieking, hurt sound, like a wounded animal, but frayed and gave. He let go of Cristina and dropped the knife. Faint sunlight filtered down through the branches above, and in the dim illumination, the ribbon still around his wrist looked like blood. The ribbon was looped around Cristina's wrist as well, no longer burning, trailing its lonely end in the dirt. She worried at it with her nails until it came free and fell to the ground. Her fingers kept slipping. Probably the faerie drink, still in her system, she thought. She glanced over at Mark. His face was drawn, his gold and blue eyes shadowed. "That could have been very bad," he said, casting the rest of his ribbon aside. "A binding spell like that can tie two people together and send one of them mad, make them drown themselves and pull the other in after them." "Mark," Cristina said. "I'm sorry. I should have listened to you. You know more about revels than I do. You have experience. I only have the books I read." "No," he said unexpectedly. "I wanted to go too. I liked dancing with you. It was good to be there with someone..." "Human?" Cristina said. The heat in her chest had turned into a strange pinching feeling, a hot pressure that increased when she looked at him. At the curves of his cheekbones, the hollows of his temples. His loose, wheat-colored shirt was open at the throat, and she could see that place she had always thought was the most beautiful spot on a man's body, the smooth muscle over the clavicle and the vulnerable hollow. "Yes, human," he said. "We are all human, I know. But I have almost never known anyone as human as you." Cristina felt breathless. The faerie mist had stolen her breath, she thought, that and the enchantment all around them. "You are kind," he said, "one of the kindest people I have known. In the Hunt, there was not much kindness. When I think that when the sentence of the Cold Peace was passed, there was someone a thousand miles away from Idris, someone who had never met me but who cried for a boy who had been abandoned..." "I said I didn't cry." Cristina's voice hitched. Mark's hand was a pale blur. She felt his fingers against her face. They came away wet, shining in the mist-light. "You're crying now," he said. When she caught at his hand, it was damp with her own tears. And when she leaned toward him through the mist, and kissed him, she tasted salt. For a moment Mark was startled, unmoving, and Cristina felt a spear of terror go through her, worse than the sight of any demon. That Mark might not want this, that he might be horrified... "Cristina," he said, as she broke away from him, and went up on his knees, his arm coming around her a little awkwardly, his hand burying itself in her hair. "Cristina," he said again, with a break in his voice, the rough sound of desire. She put her hands on either side of his face, her palms in the hollows of his cheeks, and marveled at the softness where Diego had had stubble, rough against her skin. She let him come to her this time, closing her into the circle of his left arm, fitting his mouth to hers. Stars exploded behind her eyelids. Not just any stars, but the many-colored stars of Faerie. She saw clouds and constellations; she tasted night air on his mouth. His lips moved frantically against hers. He was still whispering her name, incoherent between kisses. His free hand slid over her waist, up her side. He groaned when her fingers found their way into the neck of his shirt and brushed along his collarbone, touched the beating pulse in his throat. He said something in a language she didn't know, and then he was flat on the ground and she was over him, and he was pulling her down, hands fierce on her back and her shoulders, and she wondered if this was how it had always been for him with Kieran, fierce and ungentle. She remembered seeing them kiss in the desert behind the Institute, and how it had been a frantic thing, a clash of bodies, and it had sparked desire in her then and did again now. He arched up and she heard him gasp as she slid down his body, kissing his throat, then his chest through his shirt, and then her fingers were on his buttons and she heard him laugh breathlessly, saying her name, and then, "I never thought you'd even look at me, not someone like you, Shadowhunter royalty--like a princess--" "It's amazing what a bit of enchanted faerie drink will do." She meant to sound teasing, lighthearted. But Mark went still under her. A moment later he had moved, quick and graceful, and was sitting at least a foot from her, his hands up as if to hold her away. "Faerie drink?" he echoed. Cristina looked at him in surprise. "The sweet drink the cat-faced man gave to me. You tasted it." "There was nothing in it," Mark said, with uncharacteristic sharpness. "I knew the moment I put my lips to my skin. It was only brambleberry juice, Cristina." Cristina recoiled slightly, both from his anger and from the realization that there had been no blurring cloak of magic over the things she'd just done. "But I thought--" "You thought you were kissing me because you were intoxicated," Mark said. "Not because you wanted to, or because you actually like me." "But I do like you." She rose to her knees, but Mark was already on his feet. "I have since I met you." "Is that why you got together with Diego?" Mark said, and then shook his head, backing up. "Maybe I can't do this." "Do what?" Cristina staggered upright. "Be with a human who lies," Mark said, uninflected. "But you've lied too," said Cristina. "You've lied about being with Emma." "And you've taken part in that same lie." "Because it has to be told," Cristina said. "For both their sakes. If Julian wasn't in love with her, then he wouldn't need to think--" She broke off, then, as Mark went white in the shadows. "What did you say?" Cristina put her hand to her mouth. The fact of Emma and Julian's feelings for each other was so rooted in what she knew about them that it was hard to remember others didn't know. It was so clear in their every word and gesture, even now; how could Mark not know? "But they're parabatai," he said, bewildered. "It's illegal. The punishment--Julian wouldn't. He just wouldn't." "I'm so sorry. I shouldn't have said anything. I was just guessing--" "You weren't guessing," Mark said, and turned away from her, shoving his way out through the branches of the trees. Cristina went after him. He had to understand he couldn't say anything to Julian. Her betrayal weighted her heart like a stone, her sense of humiliation forgotten in her fear for Emma, her realization of what she'd done. She pushed through the tree branches, the dry- edged leaves scratching at her skin. A moment later, she was outside on the green hill, and she saw Julian. The music woke Jules, the music and an enveloping sense of warmth. He hadn't been warm in so long, not even at night, bundled in blankets. He blinked his eyes open. He could hear music in the distance, weaving feathery tendrils across the sky. He turned his head to the side and saw with a jolt of familiarity Emma beside him, her head on her jacket. Their hands were clasped on the grass between them, his tanned fingers wrapped tightly around her smaller ones. He drew his hand back fast, his heart pounding, and scrambled to his feet. He wondered if he'd reached for her in his sleep, or had she reached for him? No, she wouldn't have reached for him. She had Mark. She might have kissed him, Julian, but it was Mark's name she'd said. He'd thought he would be all right, sleeping this close to her, but apparently he'd been wrong. His hand still felt as if it were burning, but the rest of his body was cold again. Emma murmured and turned, her blond hair falling over her hand, now curled palm-up on the grass as if she were reaching out for him. He couldn't stand it. He seized his jacket up off the ground, shrugged it on, and went to look out from the hill. Maybe he could tell how close they were to the foot of the mountains. How long it would take them to reach the Unseelie Court and end this insane mission. Not that he blamed Mark; he didn't. Kieran was like family to Mark, and Julian understood family better than he understood almost anything else. But he was already worried about the children at the Institute, whether they would be furious, panicked, unforgiving. He'd never left them before. Never. The wind changed and the music picked up. Julian found himself at the edge of the hill looking down at a vista of green grass, dotted here and there with copses of trees that swept down to a cleared space where a blur of color and movement was visible. Dancers. They were moving in time to the thrum of a music that seemed to well up from inside the earth. It was insistent, demanding. It called to you to join it, to be swept up and carried the way that a wave might carry you from sea to shore. Julian felt the pull, though it was distant enough not to be uncomfortable. His fingers ached for his paintbrushes, though. Everywhere he looked he saw an intensity of color and movement that made him wish he was in his studio in front of his easel. He felt as if he were looking at pictures where the colors had been adjusted for maximum saturation. The leaves and grass were intently, almost poisonously green. Fruit was brighter than jewelry. The birds that dipped and dove through the air had plumage so wildly colorful it made Julian wonder if nothing here hunted them--if they had no other purpose but beauty and display. "What's wrong?" He turned around and saw her just behind him on the ridge of the hill. Emma. Her long hair untied and flying around her like a sheet of metal hammered thin. His heart lurched, feeling a pull far more insistent than that of faerie music. "Nothing." His voice came out rougher than he'd intended. "Just looking for Mark and Cristina. Once I find them, we should go. We've got a lot more walking to do." She moved toward him, her expression wistful. The sun was raying down through the clouds, lighting her hair to rich waves of saffron. Julian clenched his hand tightly, refusing to let himself raise his fingers, to bury them in the pale hair that Emma usually undid only at night. That spoke to Julian of the moments of peace between twilight and nightfall when the children were asleep and he was alone with Emma, moments of soft speech and intimacy that far predated any realization on his part that they were anything more than parabatai. In the curve of her sleeping face, in the fall of her hair, in the shadows of her lashes against her cheeks, was a peace he had only rarely known. "Do you hear the music?" she asked, taking a step closer. Close enough to touch. Julian wondered if this was how drug addicts felt. Wanting what they knew they shouldn't have. Thinking, Just this once won't matter. "Emma, don't," he said. He didn't know what he was asking, exactly. Don't be close to me, I can't bear it. Don't look at me like that. Don't be everything I want and can't have. Don't make me forget you're Mark's and anyway you could never be mine. "Please," she said. She looked at him with wide, pained eyes. "Please, I need..." The part of Julian that could never withstand being needed unlocked his clenched hands, his braced feet. He was inside the sphere of her presence in seconds, their bodies almost colliding. He put a hand against her cheek. She wasn't wearing Cortana, he noticed with a distant puzzlement. Why had she left it behind? Her eyes flashed. She raised herself onto her toes, tilting up her face. Her lips moved, but he couldn't hear what she was saying over the roaring in his own ears. He remembered being knocked down by a wave once, pressed to the bottom of the ocean, breathless and unable to get up. There had been a terror in it, but also a sense of letting go: Something more powerful was carrying him, and he no longer needed to fight. Her arms were around his neck, her lips on his, and he let go, surrendering. His whole body contracted, his heart racing, exploding, veins thrumming with blood and energy. He caught her up against him, small and strong in his arms. He gasped, unable to breathe, tasting the sweet-sharpness of blood. But not Emma. He couldn't taste Emma, the familiarity of her, and the scent of her was different too. Gone was the sweetness of sun-warmed skin, of the herbs in her soap and shampoo, the scent of gear and gold and girl. You didn't grow up with someone, dream of them, let them shape your soul and put their fingerprints on your heart, and not know when the person you were kissing wasn't them. Julian yanked himself away, wiping the back of his hand across his mouth. Blood smeared his knuckles. He was looking at a faerie woman, her skin smooth and pale, an unmarked, unwrinkled canvas. She was grinning, her lips red. Her hair was the color of cobwebs--it was cobwebs, gray and fine and drifting. She could have been any age at all. Her only clothes were a ragged black shift. She was beautiful and also hideous. "You delight me, Shadowhunter," she crooned. "Will you not come back to my arms for more kisses?" She reached out. Julian stumbled back. He had never in his life kissed anyone but Emma; he felt sick now, in his heart and guts. He wanted to reach for a seraph blade, to burn the air between them, to feel the familiar heat race up his arm and through his veins and cauterize his nausea. His hand had only just closed around the hilt of the blade when he remembered: It wouldn't work here. "Leave him alone!" someone shouted. "Get away from my brother, leanansidhe!" It was Mark. He was emerging from a copse of trees with Cristina just behind him. There was a dagger in his hand. The faerie woman laughed. "Your weapons will not work in this realm, Shadowhunter." There was a click, and Cristina's folding knife bloomed open in her hand. "Come and speak your words of challenge to my blade, barrow-woman." The faerie pulled back with a hiss, and Julian saw his own blood on her teeth. He felt light- headed with sickness and anger. She whirled and was gone in a moment, a gray-black blur racing down the hill. The music had stopped. The dancers, too, had begun to scatter: The sun was setting, the shadows thick across the ground. Whatever kind of revel it had been, it was one that apparently was not friendly to nightfall. "Julian, brother." Mark hurried forward, his eyes concerned. "You look ih--sit down, drink some water--" A soft whistle came from farther up the hill. Julian turned. Emma was standing on the ridge, buckling on Cortana. He saw the relief on her face as she caught sight of them. "I wondered where you'd gone," she said, hurrying down the hill. Her smile as she looked at them all was hopeful. "I was worried you'd eaten faerie fruit and were running naked around the greensward." "No nudity," said Julian. "No greensward." Emma tightened the strap on Cortana. Her hair had been pulled back into a long braid, only a few pale tendrils escaping. She looked around at their tense faces, her brown eyes wide. "Is everything okay?" Julian could still feel the fingerprints of the leanansidhe all over him. He knew what leanansidhe were--wild faeries who took the shape of whatever you wanted to see, seduced you, and fed on your blood and skin. At least he was the only one who would have seen Emma. Mark and Cristina would have seen the leanansidhe in her true form. That was one humiliation and danger spared them all. "Everything's fine," he said. "We'd better get going. The stars are just coming out, and we've got a long way still to go." "All right," Livvy said, pausing in front of a narrow wooden door. It didn't look much like the rest of the Institute, glass and metal and modernity. It seemed like a warning. "Here we go." She didn't look eager. They'd decided--with Kit mostly as silent onlooker--to go directly to Arthur Blackthorn's office. Even if it was two in the morning, even if he didn't want to be bothered with Centurion business, he needed to know what Zara was planning. She was after the Institute, Livvy had explained as they scrambled back along the beach and rocks to where they'd started. Surely that's why she'd said what she had about Arthur-- clearly she'd tell any lie. Kit had never thought about Institutes much--they'd always struck him as something like police stations, buzzy hives of Shadowhunters meant to keep an eye on specific locations. It seemed they were more like small city-states: in charge of a certain area, but run by a family appointed by the Council in Idris. "There's seriously an entire private country that's just Shadowhunters?" Kit demanded as they headed up the road to the Institute, rising like a shadow against the mountains behind it. "Yes," said Livvy tersely. In other words, Shut up and listen. Kit had the feeling she was processing what was happening by explaining it to him. He shut up and let her. An Institute was run by a head, whose family lived with him or her; they also housed families who'd lost members, or Nephilim orphans--of whom there were many. The head of an Institute had significant power: Most Consuls were chosen from that pool, and they could propose new Laws, which would be passed if a vote went their way. All Institutes were just as empty as the Los Angeles one. In fact, it was unusually crowded at the moment, due to the Centurion presence. They were meant to be that way, in case they needed to house a battalion of Shadowhunters at any moment. There was no staff, as there was no need of one: Shadowhunters who worked for the Institute, called the Conclave, were spread out all over the city in their own houses. Not that there were many of them either, Livvy added grimly. So many had died in the war five years ago. But if Zara's father were to become the head of the Los Angeles Institute, not only would he be able to propose his bigoted Law, but the Blackthorns would be thrown out on their ears with nowhere to go but Idris. "Is Idris so bad?" Kit had asked as they went up the stairs. Not that he wanted to be shipped off to Idris. He was just getting used to the Institute. Not that he'd want to stay in it if Zara's father took over--not if he was anything like Zara. Livvy glanced at Ty, who hadn't interrupted her during her tirade. "Idris is fine. Great, even. But this is where we live." They'd reached the door to Arthur's office then, and everything had gone silent. Kit wondered if he should just lead the way. He didn't care particularly if he annoyed Arthur Blackthorn or not. Ty looked at the door with troubled eyes. "We're not supposed to bother Uncle Arthur. We promised Jules." "We have to," Livvy said simply, and pushed the door open. A narrow set of stairs led to a shadowy room under the eaves of the house. There was a cluster of desks, each with a lamp on it--so many lamps the room was filled with brilliance. Every book, every piece of paper with scrawled writing, every plate with half-eaten food on it, was harshly illuminated. A man sat at one of the desks. He wore a long bathrobe over a ragged sweater and jeans; his feet were bare. The robe had probably once been blue, but was now a sort of dirty white from many washings. He was clearly a Blackthorn--his mostly gray hair curled like Julian's did, and his eyes were a brilliant blue-green. They went past Livvy and Ty and fastened on Kit. "Stephen," he said, and dropped the pen he was holding. It hit the ground, spilling ink in a dark pool over the floorboards. Livvy's mouth was partly open. Ty was pressed against the wall. "Uncle Arthur, that's Kit," said Livvy. "Kit Herondale." Arthur chuckled dryly. "Herondale, indeed," he said. His eyes seemed to burn: There was a look of sickness in them, like the heat of a fever. He rose to his feet and came over to Kit, staring down into his face. "Why did you follow Valentine?" he said. "You, who had everything? 'Yea, is not even Apollo, with hair and harpstring of gold, a bitter God to follow, a beautiful God to behold?"' He smelled bitter, of old coffee. Kit took a step back. "What kind of Herondale will you be?" Arthur whispered. "William or Tobias? Stephen or Jace? Beautiful, bitter, or both?" "Uncle," said Ty. He pitched his voice loud, though it shook slightly. "We need to talk to you. About the Centurions. They want to take the Institute. They don't want you to be head of it anymore." Arthur whirled on Ty with a fierce look--almost a glare, but not quite. Then he began to laugh. "Is that true? Is it?" he demanded. The laughter built and seemed to break in almost a sob. He whirled around and sat heavily down in his desk chair. "What a joke," he said savagely. "It's not a joke," Livvy began. "They want to take the Institute from me," Arthur said. "As if I hold it! I've never run an Institute in my life, children. He does everything--writes the correspondence, plans the meetings, speaks with the Council." "Who does everything?" said Kit, though he knew he had no place in the conversation. "Julian." The voice was Diana's; she was standing at the top of the attic stairs, looking around the room as if the brightness of the light surprised her. Her expression was resigned. "He means Julian." <|title|>Chapter 10: So Wills Its King <|startofchapter|>They were in Diana's office. Through the window, the ocean looked like rippled aluminum, illuminated by black light. "I'm sorry you had to learn this about your uncle," said Diana. She was leaning back against her desk. She wore jeans and a sweater but still looked immaculate. Her hair was swept back into a mass of curls clipped by a leather barrette. "I had hoped--Julian had hoped --that you'd never know." Kit was leaning against the far wall; Ty and Livvy sat on Diana's desk. Both of them looked stunned, as if they were recovering from having the wind knocked out of them. Kit had never been more conscious that they were twins, despite the difference in their coloring. "So all these years it's been Julian," said Livvy. "Running the Institute. Doing everything. Covering up for Arthur." Kit thought of his drive with Julian to the Shadow Market. He hadn't spent that much time with the second-oldest Blackthorn boy, but Julian had always seemed terrifyingly adult to him, as if he were years older than his calendar age. "We should have guessed." Ty's hand twisted and untwisted the slim white cords of the headphones looped around his neck. "I should have figured it out." "We don't see the things that are closest to us," said Diana. "It's the nature of people." "But Jules," Livvy whispered. "He was only twelve. It must have been so hard on him." Her face shone. For a moment, Kit thought it was reflected light from the windows. Then he realized--it was tears. "He always loved you so much," said Diana. "It was what he wanted to do." "We need him here," said Ty. "We need him here now." "I should go," Kit said. He had never felt so uncomfortable. Well, maybe not never --there had been the incident with the five drunk werewolves and the cage of newts at the Shadow Market--but rarely. Livvy looked up, her tear stained face baleful. "No, you shouldn't. You need to stay here and help us explain to Diana about Zara." "I didn't understand half of what she said," Kit protested. "About Institute heads, and registries--" Ty took a deep breath. "I'll explain," he said. The recitation of what had happened seemed to calm him down: the regular march of facts, one after another. When he was done, Diana crossed the room and double-locked the door. "Do either of the rest of you remember anything else?" Diana asked, turning back to them. "One thing," said Kit, surprised he actually had something to contribute. "Zara said the next Council meeting was going to be soon." "I assume that's the one where they tell everyone about Arthur," said Livvy. "And make their play for the Institute." "The Cohort is a powerful faction inside the Clave," said Diana. "They're a nasty bunch. They believe in interrogating any Downworlders they find breaking the Accords with torture. They support the Cold Peace unconditionally. If I'd known Zara's father was one of them ..." She shook her head. "Zara can't have the Institute," said Livvy. "She can't. This is our home." "She doesn't care about the Institute," said Kit. "She and her father want the power it can give." He thought of the Downworlders he knew at the Shadow Market, thought of them rounded up, forced to wear some kind of signs, branded or stamped with identification numbers.... "The Cohort has the upper hand, though," said Livvy. "She knows about Arthur, and we can't afford to have anyone find out. She's right: They'll hand the Institute over to someone else." "Is there anything you know about the Dearborns, or the Cohort? Something that might discredit them?" said Kit. "Keep them from getting the Institute if it was up for grabs?" "But we'd still lose the Institute," said Ty. "Yeah," said Kit. "But they wouldn't be able to start registering Downworlders. Maybe it doesn't sound that harmful, but it never stops there. Zara clearly doesn't care if Downworlders live or die--once she knows where they all are, once they have to report to her, the Cohort has power over them." He sighed. "You should really read some mundane history books." "Maybe we could threaten her by saying we'll tell Diego," said Livvy. "He doesn't know, and--I know he was a jerk to Cristina, but I can't believe he'd be okay with all this. If he knew, he'd dump Zara, and she doesn't want that." Diana frowned. "It's not our strongest position, but it is something." She turned to her desk, picked up a pen and notepad. "I'm going to write to Alec and Magnus. They head up the Downworlder-Shadowhunter Alliance. If anyone knows about the Cohort, or any tricks we can use to defeat them, they will." "And if they don't?" "We try Diego," said Diana. "I wish I believed I could trust him more than I do, but--" She sighed. "I like him. But I liked Manuel, too. People are not what they seem." "And do we keep telling everyone that Julian and the others went to the Academy?" Livvy asked, sliding off the desk. Her eyes were dark-rimmed with exhaustion. Ty's shoulders drooped. Kit felt a little as if he'd been hit with a sandbag himself. "If anyone finds out they went to Faerie, it won't matter what we do about Zara--we'll lose the Institute anyway." "We hope they come back soon," Diana said, looking out at the moon's reflection on the ocean water. "And if hoping doesn't work, we pray for it." The woods had gone, and as the twilight deepened into true night, the four Shadowhunters trekked through a spectral land of green fields, separated by low stone walls. Every once in a while they would see another patch of the strange blighted earth through the mist. Sometimes they would glimpse the shape of a town in the distance and fall silent, not wanting to attract attention. They had eaten what was left of their food back on the hill, though it wasn't much. Emma wasn't hungry, though. A snarl of misery had taken up residence in her stomach. She couldn't forget what she'd seen when she'd woken up, alone in the grass. Rising, she had looked around for Julian. He was gone, even the impression in the grass where he'd lain beside her fading. The air had been heavy and gray-gold, making her head buzz as she climbed up over the ridge, about to call Julian's name. Then she'd seen him, standing halfway down the hill, the dank air lifting his sleeves, the edges of his hair. He wasn't alone. A faerie girl in a black, ragged shift was with him. Her hair was the color of burnt rose petals, a sort of gray-pink, drifting around her shoulders. Emma thought the girl looked up at her for a moment and smiled. She might have imagined it, though. She knew she didn't imagine what happened next, when the faerie girl leaned in to Jules and kissed him. She wasn't sure what she thought would happen; some part of her expected Jules to push the girl away. He didn't. Instead he put his arms around her and drew her in, his hand tangling in her shimmering hair. Emma's stomach turned itself inside out as he pressed her close. He held the faerie girl tightly, their mouths moving together, her hands sliding from his shoulders down his back. There was something almost beautiful about the sight, in a horrible way. It stabbed Emma through with the remembrance of what it had been like to kiss Jules herself. And there was no hesitancy in him, no reluctance, nothing held back as if he were reserving any piece of himself for Emma. He gave himself up utterly to the kiss, and he was as beautiful doing it as the realization that she had really lost him now was awful. She thought she could actually feel her heart break, like a friable piece of china. The faerie girl had broken away, and then there had been Mark and Cristina there, and Emma hadn't been able to watch what was happening: She'd turned away, crumpling into the grass, trying not to throw up. Her hands balled into fists against the ground. Get up, she told herself fiercely. She owed that much to Jules. He'd hidden whatever pain he'd felt when she'd ended things between them, and she owed it to him to do the same. Somehow she'd managed to get to her feet, plaster a smile on her face, speak normally when she came down the hill to join the others. Nod as they sat and divided up food, as the stars came out and Mark determined that he could navigate by them. Seem unconcerned as they set off, Julian beside his brother, and she and Cristina behind them, following Mark down the winding, unmarked paths of Faerie. The sky was radiant now with multicolored stars, each blazing an individual path of pigment across the sky. Cristina was uncharacteristically quiet, kicking at stones with the toe of her boot as she walked. Mark and Julian were up ahead of them, just far enough to be out of earshot. "j Que onda ?" Cristina asked, looking sideways at Emma. Emma's Spanish was bad, but even she understood what's going on? "Nothing." She felt awful about lying to Cristina, but worse about her own feelings. Sharing them would only make them seem more real. "Well, good," Cristina said. "Because I have something to tell you." She took a deep breath. "I kissed Mark." "Whoa," said Emma, diverted. "Whoa ho ho." "Did you just say 'whoa ho ho'?" "I did," Emma admitted. "So is this like a high-five-slash-chest-bump situation or an oh- my-God-what-are-we-going-to-do situation?" Cristina tugged nervously on her hair. "I don't know--I like him very much, but--at first I thought I was only kissing him because of the faerie drink--" Emma gasped. "You drank faerie wine? Cristina! That's how you black out and wake up the next day under a bridge with a tattoo that says I love helicopters." "It wasn't really wine! It was just juice!" "Okay, okay." Emma lowered her voice. "Do you want me to end things with Mark? I mean, you know, tell the family it's over?" "But Julian," Cristina said, looking troubled. "What about him?" For a moment, Emma couldn't speak--she was remembering Julian as the pretty faerie girl had come through the grass toward him, the way she had put her hands on his body, the way his arms had locked across her back. She had never felt jealousy like that before. It still ached in her, like the scar of an old wound. She welcomed the pain in a strange way. It was pain she deserved, she thought. If Julian hurt, she should hurt too, and she had cut him free--he was free to kiss faerie girls and look for love and be happy. He was doing nothing wrong. She remembered what Tessa had told her, that the way to make Julian stop loving her was to make him think she didn't love him. To convince him. It seemed she had. "I think my whole charade with Mark has done what it needed to do," she said. "So if you want..." "I don't know," Cristina said. She took a deep breath. "I have to tell you something. Mark and I argued, and I didn't mean to, but I--" "Stop!" It was Mark, up ahead. He whirled, Julian beside him, and held out a hand toward them. "Do you hear that?" Emma strained her ears. She wished it was possible to rune herself--she missed the runes that improved speed and hearing and reflex. She shook her head. Mark had changed into what must have been his Hunt clothes, darker and more ragged, and had even rubbed dirt into his hair and face. His two-colored eyes glittered in the twilight. "Listen," he said, "it's getting louder," and suddenly Emma could hear it: music. A sort of music she'd never heard before, eerie and tuneless, it made her nerves feel like they were wriggling under her skin. "The Court is near," Mark said. "Those are the King's pipers." He plunged into the thicker woods alongside the path, turning only to call "Come along!" to the others. They followed. Emma was conscious of Julian just ahead of her; he'd taken out a shortsword and was using it to hack away undergrowth. Piles of leaves and branches studded with small, blood-colored flowers tumbled at her feet. The music was louder now, and grew louder still as they passed through thick forest, the trees above them glimmering with will-o'-the-wisp lights. Multicolored lanterns hung from the branches, pointing the way toward the darkest part of the forest. The Unseelie Court appeared suddenly--a burst of louder music and bright lights that stung Emma's eyes after so long in the dark. She wasn't sure what she'd imagined when she'd tried to picture the Unseelie Court. A massive stone castle, perhaps, with a grim throne room. A dark jewel of a chamber at the top of a tower with a winding gray stair. She recalled the shadowy darkness of the City of Bones, the hush of the place, the chill in the air. But the Unseelie Court was outside--a number of tents and booths not unlike the ones at the Shadow Market, clustered in a glade in a circle of thick trees. The main part of it was a massive draped pavilion, with banners of velvet on which was displayed the emblem of a broken crown, stamped in gold, flying from every part of the structure. A single tall throne made of smooth, glimmering black stone sat in the pavilion. It was empty. The back was carved with the two halves of a crown, this time hanging above a moon and a sun. A few gentry faeries in dark cloaks were milling around in the pavilion near the throne. Their cloaks bore the crown insignia, and they wore thick gloves like the one Cristina had found at the ruins of Malcolm's house. Most were young; some barely looked older than fourteen or fifteen. "The Unseelie King's sons," whispered Mark. They were crouched behind a tumble of boulders, peering around the edges, weapons in hand. "Some of them, anyway." "Doesn't he have any daughters?" Emma muttered. "He has no use for them," said Mark. "They say he has girl children killed at birth." Emma couldn't prevent a flinch of anger. "Just let me get close to him," she whispered. "I'll show him what use girls are." There was a sudden blare of music. The faeries in the area began to move toward the throne. They were brilliant in their finery, gold and green and blue and flame-red, the men as brightly clothed as the women. "It's almost time," said Mark, straining to see. "The King is calling the gentry to him." Julian straightened, still hidden by the boulders. "Then we should move now. I'm going to see if we can get any closer to the pavilion." His shortsword gleamed in the moonlight. "Cristina," he said. "Come with me." After a single startled moment, Cristina nodded. "Of course." She took out her knife, sliding a quick apologetic look toward Emma as she and Julian disappeared into the trees. Mark leaned forward against the massive boulder blocking them from the view of the glade. He didn't look at Emma, only spoke in a low voice. "I can't do this," he said. "I can no longer lie to my brother." Emma froze. "Lie to him about what?" she asked, though she knew the answer. "About us," he said. "The lie that we're in love. We must end it." Emma closed her eyes. "I know. You and Cristina--" "She told me," Mark interrupted. "That Julian is in love with you." Emma didn't open her eyes, but she could still see the bright light of the torches surrounding the pavilion and the clearing burning against her eyelids. "Emma," Mark said. "It was not her fault. It was an accident. But when she spoke the words to me, I understood. None of this ever had anything to do with Cameron Ashdown, did it? You were trying to protect Julian from his own feelings. If Julian loves you, you must convince him it's impossible for you to love him back." His sympathy almost broke her. She opened her eyes--closing them was cowardice, and the Carstairs were not cowards. "Mark, you know about the Law," she said. "And you know Julian's secrets--about Arthur, the Institute. You know what would happen if anyone found out, what they would do to us, to your family." "I do know," he said. "And I am not angry at you. I would stand beside you if you found someone else to deceive him. Sometimes we must deceive the ones we love. But I cannot be the instrument that causes him pain." "But it can only be you. You think if there was anyone else, I would have asked you?" She could hear the desperation in her own voice. Mark's eyes clouded. "Why only me?" "Because there isn't anyone else Jules is jealous of," she said, and she saw the astonishment bloom in his eyes just as a twig snapped behind her. She whirled, Cortana flashing out. It was Julian. "You should know better than to draw steel on your own parabatai," he said, with a crook of a smile. She lowered the blade. Had he heard anything she and Mark had said? It didn't look like it. "You should know better than to make noise when you walk." "No Soundless runes," said Jules, and glanced from her to Mark. "We've found a position closer to the throne. Cristina's already--" But Mark had gone still. He was staring at something Emma couldn't see. Julian's gaze met hers, full of unguarded alarm, and then Mark was moving, pushing through the undergrowth. The other two threw themselves after him. Emma could feel sweat gather in the hollow of her back as she strained herself not to step on a twig that might break, a leaf that might crack. It was painful, humbling almost to realize how much Nephilim relied on their runes. She came up short quickly, almost bumping into Mark. He hadn't gone that far, only to the very edge of the clearing, where he was still hidden from the view of the pavilion by an overgrowth of ferns. Their view of the clearing was unobstructed. Emma could see the Unseelie Faeries gathered close in front of the throne. There were likely a hundred of them, maybe more. They were dressed in stunning finery, much more elegant than she'd imagined. A woman with dark skin wore a dress made of the feathers of a swan, stark and white, a necklace of down encircling her slender throat. Two pale men were dressed in rose silk overcoats and waistcoats of shimmering blue bird's wings. A wheat-skinned woman with hair made of rose petals approached the pavilion, her dress an intricate cage of the bones of small animals, fastened together with thread made of human hair. But Mark was looking at none of them, nor was he looking at the pavilion where the Unseelie princes stood, clearly waiting. Instead he was staring at two of the Unseelie princes, both clothed in black silk. One was tall with deep brown skin, the skull of a raven, dipped in gold, dangling around his throat. The other was pale and black-haired, his face narrow and bearded. Slumped between them was the figure of a prisoner, his clothes bloodstained, his body limp. The crowd parted for them, their voices quiet murmurs. "Kieran," Mark whispered. He started forward, but Julian caught at the back of his shirt, gripping his brother so tightly that his knuckles turned white. "Not yet," he hissed under his breath. His eyes were flat, glittering; in them Emma saw the ruthlessness that she had once told him frightened her. Not for herself, but for him. The princes had reached a tall, white-barked tree just to the left and in front of the pavilion. The bearded prince slammed Kieran up against it, hard. The prince with the raven necklace spoke to him sharply, shaking his head. The other prince laughed. "The one with the beard is Prince Erec," said Mark. "The King's favorite. The other is Prince Adaon. Kieran says that Adaon does not like to see people hurt. But Erec enjoys it." It seemed to be true. Erec produced a rope of thorns and held it out toward Adaon, who shook his head and walked away toward the pavilion. Shrugging, Erec commenced binding Kieran to the tree trunk. His own hands were protected with thick gloves, but Kieran was wearing only a torn shirt and breeches, and the thorns cut into his wrists and ankles, and then his throat when Erec pulled a strand of the vicious rope tight against his skin. Through it all, Kieran slumped inertly, his eyes half-closed, clearly beyond caring. Mark tensed, but Julian held on to him. Cristina had rejoined them and was pressing her hand over her mouth; she stared as Erec finished with Kieran and stepped back. Blood welled from the lacerations where the thorn bindings cut into Kieran's skin. His head had fallen back against the trunk of the tree; Emma could see his silver eye, and the black one as well, both half-lidded. There were bruises on his pale skin, on his cheek and above his hip where his shirt was torn. There was a commotion atop the pavilion, and a single blast from a horn shattered the murmuring quiet in the clearing. The gentry looked up. A tall figure had appeared beside the throne. He was all in white, salt-white, with a doublet of white silk and gauntlets of white bone. White horns curled from either side of his head, startling against the blackness of his hair. A gold band encircled his forehead. Cristina exhaled. "The King." Emma could see his profile: It was beautiful. Clear, precise, clean like a drawing or painting of something perfect. Emma couldn't have described the shape of his eyes or cheekbones or the turn of his mouth, and she lacked Jules's ability to paint it, but she knew it was uncanny and wonderful and that she would remember the face of the King of the Unseelie Court for all her life. He turned, bringing his face into full view. Emma heard Cristina gasp faintly. The King's face was divided down the middle. The right side was the face of a young man, luminous with elegance and beauty, though his eye was red as flame. The left side was an inhuman mask, gray skin tight and leathery over bone, eye socket empty and black, mottled with brutal scars. Kieran, bound to the tree, looked once at the monstrous face of his father and turned his head away, his chin dropping, tangled black hair falling to hide his eyes. Erec hurried toward the pavilion, joining Adaon and a crowd of other princes at their father's side. Mark was breathing hard. "The face of the Unseelie King," he whispered. "Kieran spoke of it, but..." "Steady," Julian whispered back. "Wait to hear what he says." As if on cue, the King spoke. "Folk of the Court," he said. "We have gathered here for a sad purpose: to witness justice brought against one of the Fair Folk who has taken up arms and murdered another in a place of peace. Kieran Hunter stands convicted of the murder of Iarlath of the Unseelie Court, one of my own knights. He slew him with his blade, here in the Unseelie Lands." A murmur ran through the crowd. "We pay a price for the peace among our folk," said the King. His voice was like a ringing bell, lovely and echoing. Something touched Emma's shoulder. It was Julian's hand, the one that wasn't clasping Mark's arm. Emma looked at him in surprise, but he was staring ahead, toward the clearing. "No Unseelie faerie shall raise hand against another. The price of disobedience is justice. Death is paid with death." Julian's fingers moved quickly against Emma's skin through her shirt, the age-old language of their shared childhood. S-T-A-Y H-E-R-E. She whipped around to look at him, but he was already moving. She heard Mark's breath hiss out in a gasp and caught at his wrist, preventing him from going after his brother. Under the starlight, Julian walked out into the clearing full of Unseelie gentry. Emma, her heart pounding, held tight to Mark's wrist; everything in her wanted to rush out after her parabatai, but he had asked her to stay, and she would stay, and hold on to Mark. Because Julian was moving as if he had a plan, and if he had a plan, she owed it to him to trust that it might work. "What is he doing?" Cristina moaned, in an agony of suspense. Emma could only shake her head. Some of the faeries on the edge of the crowd had spotted him now and were gasping, drawing back as he approached. He had done nothing to cover the black, permanent runes on his skin--the Voyance rune on the back of his hand glared like an eye at the Fair Folk in their gaudy finery. The woman in the dress made of bones gave a screech. "Shadowhunter!" she cried. The King sat bolt upright. A moment later a row of faerie knights in black-and-silver armor--among them the princes who had dragged Kieran to the tree--had surrounded Julian, forming a circle around him. Swords of silver and brass and gold flashed up around him like a grim tribute. Kieran raised his head and stared. The shock on his face as he recognized Julian was complete. The King rose. His bifurcated face was grim and terrible. "Bring the Shadowhunter spy to me that I may kill him with my own hand." "You will not kill me." Julian's voice, calm and confident, rose above the din of voices. "I am no spy. The Clave sent me, and if you kill me, it will mean open war." The King hesitated. Emma felt a wild half urge to laugh. Julian had spoken the lie so calmly and confidently that she almost believed it herself. Doubt flickered across the King's face. My parabatai, she thought, looking at Jules, standing with his back straight and his head back, the only seventeen-year-old boy in the world who could make the King of the Dark Court doubt himself. "The Clave sent you? Why not an official convoy?" said the King. Julian nodded, as if he'd expected the question. Probably he had. "There was no time. When we heard of the threat to Kieran Hunter, we knew we had to move immediately." Kieran made a choked sound. There was a lash of thorned wire around his throat. Blood trickled down onto his collarbone. "What cares the Clave or Consul for the life of a boy from the Wild Hunt?" said the King. "And a criminal, at that?" "He is your own son," said Julian. The King smiled. It was a bizarre sight, as half his face sprang into light and the other displayed a ghastly grimace. "No one can then," he said, "accuse me of favoritism. The Unseelie Court extends the hand of justice." "The man he murdered," said Julian. "Iarlath. He was a kin-slayer. He plotted with Malcolm Fade to murder others of the Fair Folk." "They were of the Seelie Court," said the King. "Not of our people." "But you say you are the ruler of both Courts," said Julian. "Should not then the people who will one day be yours to rule expect your fairness and clemency?" There was a murmur in the crowd, this one softer in tone. The King frowned. "Iarlath also murdered Nephilim," said Julian. "Kieran prevented other Shadowhunter lives from being lost. Therefore we owe him, and we pay our debts. We will not let you take his life." "What can you do to stop us?" snapped Erec. "Alone, as you are?" Julian smiled. Though Emma had known him all her life, though he was like another part of herself, the cold surety of that smile sent ice through her veins. "I am not alone." Emma let go of Mark. He strode forward into the clearing without looking back, and Emma and Cristina came after. None of them drew their weapons, though Cortana was strapped to Emma's back, visible to everyone. The crowd parted to let them pass through and join Julian. Emma realized, as they stepped into the circle of guards, that Mark's feet were still bare. They looked pale as a white cat's paws against the long dark grass. Not that it mattered. Mark was a formidable warrior even barefoot. Emma had good cause to know. The King looked at them and smiled. Emma didn't like the look of that smile. "What is this?" he said. "A convoy of children?" "We are Shadowhunters," said Emma. "We bear the mandate of the Clave." "So you said," said Prince Adaon. "What is your demand?" "A good question," said the King. "We demand a trial by combat," said Julian. The King laughed. "Only one of the Fair Folk can enter a trial by combat in the Unseelie Lands." "I am one of the Fair Folk," said Mark. "I can do it." At that, Kieran began to struggle against his bonds. "No," he said, violently, blood running down his fingers, his chest. "No." Julian didn't even look at Kieran. Kieran might be who they were there to save, but if they had to torture him to save him, Julian would. You're the hoy who does what has to he done because no one else will, Emma had told him once. It seemed like years ago. "You are a Wild Hunter," said Erec. "And half Shadowhunter. You are bound by no laws, and your loyalty is to Gwyn, not to justice. You cannot fight." His lip curled back. "And the others are not faerie at all." "Not quite true," said Julian. "It has often been said that children and the mad are of the faerie kind. That there is a bond between them. And we are children." Erec snorted. "That's ridiculous. You are grown." "The King called us children," said Julian. '"A convoy of children.' Would you call your liege lord a liar?" There was a collective gasp. Erec went pale. "My Lord," he began, turning to the King. "Father--" "Silence, Erec, you've said enough," said the King. His gaze was on Julian, the brilliant eye and the dark, empty socket. "An interesting one," he said, to no one in particular, "this boy who looks like a Shadowhunter and speaks like gentry." He rose to his feet. "You will have your trial by combat. Knights, lower your blades." The flashing wall of bright metal around Emma and her friends vanished. Stony faces regarded them instead. Some were princes, bearing the distinct stamp of Kieran's delicate angular features. Some were badly scarred from past battles. Quite a few had their faces hidden by hoods or veils. Beyond them, the gentry of the Court were milling and exclaiming, clearly excited. The words "trial by combat" drifted through the clearing. "You will have your trial," the King said again. "Only I shall pick which of you will be the champion." "We are all willing," Cristina said. "Of course you are. That is the nature of Shadowhunters. Foolish self-sacrifice." The King turned to glance at Kieran, throwing the skeletal side of his face into sharp relief. "Now how to choose? I know. A riddle of sorts." Emma felt Julian tense. He wouldn't like the idea of a riddle. Too random. Julian didn't like anything he couldn't control. "Come closer," said the King, beckoning them with a finger. His hands were pale like white bark. A hook like a short claw extended from each finger just above the knuckle. The crowd parted to let Emma and the others closer to the pavilion. As they went, Emma was conscious of a strange scent that hung all around them. Thick and bittersweet, like tree sap. It intensified as they drew close to the throne until they stood looking up at it, the King looming above them like a statue. Behind him stood a row of knights whose faces were covered by masks wrought from gold and silver and brass. Some were in the shape of rats, some golden lions or silver panthers. "Truth is to be found in dreams," the King said, looking down at them. From this angle, Emma could see that the odd splitting of his face ended at his throat, which was ordinary skin. "Tell me, Shadowhunters: You enter a cave. Inside the cave is an egg, lit from within and glowing. You know that it beats with your dreams--not the ones you have during the day, but the ones you half-remember in the morning. It splits open. What emerges?" "A rose," said Mark. "With thorns." Cristina cut her eyes toward him in surprise, but remained motionless. "An angel," she said. "With bloody hands." "A knife," said Emma. "Pure and clean." "Bars," Julian said quietly. "The bars of a prison cell." The King's expression didn't change. The murmurs of the Court around them seemed confused rather than angry or intrigued. The King reached out a long white taloned hand. "You there, girl with the bright hair," he said. "You will be the champion of your people." Relief speared through Emma. It would be her; the others would not be risked. She felt lighter, as if she could breathe again. Cristina turned her face toward Emma, looking stricken; Mark seemed to be holding himself in with main force. Julian caught Emma's arm, moving to whisper in her ear, urgency in every line of his body. She stood still, her eyes fixed on his face, letting the chaos of the Court flow around her. The coldness of battle was already beginning to descend on her: the chill that dampened emotions, letting everything but the fight fall away. Julian was part of that, the beginning of battle and the cold of the middle of it and the fierceness of the fighting. There was nothing she wanted to look at more in the moments before a battle than his face. Nothing that made her feel more fully at home in herself, more like a Shadowhunter. "Remember," Julian whispered into Emma's ear. "You've spilled faerie blood before, in Idris. They would have killed you, killed us all. This is a battle too. Show no mercy, Emma." "Jules." She didn't know if he heard her say his name. Knights surrounded them suddenly, separating her from the others. Her arm slipped away from Julian's grip. She looked one last time at the three of them before being guided roughly forward. A space was being cleared just in front of the pavilion. A horn blew, the sharp sound parting the night like a knife. One of the princes strode out from behind the pavilion beside a masked knight. The knight wore thick gray armor like an animal's hide. His helmet covered his face. A crude drawing was painted onto the front of the helmet: wide eyes, a mouth stretched in a grin. Someone had touched the helmet with paint- wet hands, and there were red streaks along the sides that lent an ominous air to what might otherwise have been clownish. The prince guided the masked knight to his side of the cleared space and left him there, facing Emma. He was armed with a long sword of faerie workmanship, its blade silver traced with gold, its hilt studded with gems. The edges gleamed sharp as razor blades. A strong sword, but nothing could break Cortana. Emma's weapon would not fail her. She could only fail herself. "You know the rules," said the King in a bored tone. "Once the battle commences, neither warrior can be helped by a friend. The fight is to the death. The victor is he or she who survives." Emma drew Cortana. It flashed like the setting sun, just before it drowned in the sea. There was no reaction from the knight with the painted helmet. Emma focused on his stance. He was taller than her, had greater reach. His feet were carefully planted. Despite the ridiculous helmet, he was clearly a serious fighter. She moved her own feet into position: left foot forward, right foot back, arcing the dominant side of her body toward her opponent. "Let it begin," said the King. Like a racehorse bursting out of the box, the knight rushed toward Emma, sword leaping forward. Caught off guard by his speed, Emma spun out of the way of the blade. But it was a late start. She should have raised Cortana earlier. She'd been counting on the swiftness of her Sure-Strike rune, but it was no longer working. A sharp terror she hadn't known in a long time went through her as she felt the whisper of the tip of the knight's sword gliding inches from her side. Emma remembered her father's words when she'd first been learning. Strike at your enemy, not his weapon. Most fighters went for your blade. A good fighter went for your body. This was a good fighter. But had she expected anything else? The King had chosen him, after all. Now she just had to hope that the King had underestimated her. Two quick turns brought her to a slightly raised hillock of grass. Maybe she could even their height difference. The grass rustled. Emma didn't need to look to know that the knight was plunging toward her again. She whirled, bringing Cortana around in a slicing arc. He barely moved backward. The sword cut along the material of his thick leather armor, opening a wide slit. He didn't flinch, though, or seem hurt. He certainly wasn't slowed down. He lunged for Emma, and she slid into a crouch, his blade whistling over her head. He lunged again and she sprang back. She could hear her own breath, ragged in the cool air of the forest. The faerie knight was good, and she didn't have the benefit of runes, of seraph blades--any of the armaments of a Shadowhunter. And what if she was tiring earlier? What if this dark land was sucking out even the power in her blood? She parried a blow, leaped back, and remembered, oddly, Zara's sneering voice, Faeries fight dirty. And Mark, Faeries don't fight dirty, actually. They fight remarkably cleanly. They have a strict code of honor. She was already bending, striking at the other knight's ankles--he leaped upward, nearly levitating, and brought his own sword down, just as she seized a handful of leaves and dirt and rose, hurling them at the gaps in the faerie warrior's mask. He choked and stumbled back. It was only a second, but it was enough; Emma slashed at his legs, one-two, and then his torso. Blood soaked his armored chest; his legs went out from under him, and he hit the ground on his back with a crash like a felled tree. Emma slammed her foot down on his blade, as the crowd roared. She could hear Cristina calling her name, and Julian and Mark. Heart pounding, she stood over the motionless knight. Even now, sprawled in the grass, blackened around him by his own blood, he didn't make a sound. "Remove his helmet and end it," said the King. "That is our tradition." Emma took a deep breath. Everything that was Shadowhunter in her revolted against this, against taking the life of someone lying weaponless at her feet. She thought of what Julian had said to her just before the combat. Show no mercy. The tip of Cortana clanged against the rim of the helmet. She wedged it beneath the edge and pushed. The helmet fell away. The man lying in the grass beneath Emma was human, not faerie. His eyes were blue, his hair blond streaked with gray. His face was more familiar to Emma than her own. Her hand fell to her side, Cortana dangling from nerveless fingers. It was her father. <|title|>Chapter 11: On a Black Throne <|startofchapter|>Kit sat on the steps of the Institute, looking out at the water. It had been a long and uncomfortable day. Things were tenser than ever between the Centurions and the inhabitants of the Institute, though at least the Centurions didn't know why. Diana had made a heroic effort to teach lessons, as if everything were normal. No one could concentrate--for once Kit, despite being completely at sea regarding the comparisons of various seraphic alphabets, wasn't the most distracted person in the room. But the point of the lessons was to keep up appearances in front of the Centurions, so they slogged on. Things didn't get much better at dinner. After a long, wet day during which they hadn't found anything, the Centurions were testy. It didn't help that Jon Cartwright had apparently had some kind of temper tantrum and stalked off, his whereabouts unknown. Judging by Zara's thinly compressed lips, he'd had an argument with her, though about what, Kit could only wonder. The morality of locking warlocks up in camps or escorting faeries to torture chambers, he guessed. Diego and Rayan did their best to make cheerful conversation, but it failed. Livvy stared at Diego for most of the meal, probably thinking about their plan to use him to stop Zara, but it was clearly making Diego nervous, since he tried twice to cut his steak with a spoon. To make it worse, Dru and Tavvy seemed to pick up on the prickly vibes in the room and spent dinner peppering Diana with questions about when Julian and the others would be back from their "mission." When it was all over, Kit thankfully slipped away, avoiding the washing-up after dinner, and found himself a quiet spot under the front portico of the house. The air blowing off the desert was cool and spiced, and the ocean gleamed under the stars, a sheet of deep black that ended in a series of unfurling white waves. For the thousandth time, Kit asked himself what was keeping him here. While it seemed silly to disappear because of awkward dinner conversation, he'd been reminded sharply in the past day that the Blackthorns' problems weren't his, and probably never should be. It was one thing to be Johnny Rook's son. It was another thing completely to be a Herondale. He touched the silver of the ring on his finger, cool against his skin. "I didn't know you were out here." It was Ty's voice; Kit knew it before he looked up. The other boy had come around the side of the house and was looking up at him curiously. There was something around Ty's neck, but it wasn't his usual earphones. As he came up the stairs, a slim shadow in dark jeans and sweater, Kit realized it had eyes. He pressed his back against the wall. "Is that a ferret?" "It's wild," said Ty, leaning against the railing around the porch. "Ferrets are domesticated. So technically, it's a weasel, though if it was domesticated, it would be a ferret." Kit stared at the animal. It blinked its eyes at him and wiggled its small paws. "Wow," Kit said. He meant it. The weasel ran down Ty's arm and leaped onto the railing, then disappeared into the darkness. "Ferrets make great pets," Ty said. "They're surprisingly loyal. Or at least, people say it's surprising. I don't know why it would be. They're clean, and they like toys and quiet. And they can be trained to--" He broke off. "Are you bored?" "No." Kit was jolted; had he looked bored? He'd been enjoying the sound of Ty's voice, lively and thoughtful. "Why?" "Julian says sometimes people don't want to know as much about some topics as I do," said Ty. "So I should just ask." "I guess that's true for everyone," said Kit. Ty shook his head. "No," he said. "I'm different." He didn't sound bothered, or at all upset about it. It was a fact he knew about himself and that was all. Ty had a quiet confidence Kit found to his surprise that he envied. He never thought he would have envied anything about a Shadowhunter. Ty climbed up onto the porch beside Kit and sat down. He smelled faintly of desert, sand and sage. Kit thought of the way he'd liked the sound of Ty's voice: It was rare to hear someone get that kind of sincere pleasure out of simply sharing information. He guessed it might be a coping mechanism, too--with the unpleasantness of the Centurions, and the worry about Julian and the others, Ty was probably stressed out. "Why are you outside?" Ty asked Kit. "Are you thinking about running away again?" "No," Kit said. He wasn't, really. Maybe a little. Looking at Ty made him not want to think about it. It made him want to discover a mystery so he could present it to Ty for solving, the way you might give someone who loved candy a box of See's. "I wish we all could," Ty said, with disarming frankness. "It took us a long time to feel safe here, after the Dark War. Now it feels as if the Institute is full of enemies again." "The Centurions, you mean?" "I don't like having them all here," said Ty. "I don't like crowds of people in general. When they're all talking at the same time, and making noise. Crowds are the worst--especially places like the Pier. Have you ever been there?" He made a face. "All the lights and the shouting and the people. It's like broken glass in my head." "What about fighting?" asked Kit. "Battles, killing demons, that must be pretty noisy and loud?" Ty shook his head. "Battle is different. Battle is what Shadowhunters do. Fighting is in my body, not my mind. As long as I can wear headphones--" He broke off. In the distance, Kit heard a delicate shattering, like a window being blown in by a hurricane. Ty exploded into a standing position, almost stepping on Kit, and drew a seraph blade from his weapons belt. He gripped it, staring out toward the ocean with a look as set as the glares on the statues in the garden behind the Institute. Kit scrambled up after him, his heart hammering. "What's wrong? What was that?" "Wards--the wards the Centurions put up--that's the sound of them breaking," said Ty. "Something's coming. Something dangerous." "I thought you said the Institute was safe!" "It usually is," Ty said, and raised the blade in his hand. "Adriel," he said, and the blade seemed to burn up from within. The glow lit the night, and in its illumination Kit saw that the road leading up to the Institute was packed with moving shapes. Not human ones--a surge of dark things, slippery and dank and undulating, and a stink rolled up toward them from below, one that almost made Kit gag. He remembered having been on Venice Beach once and passing the rotting corpse of a seal, festooned in maggoty seaweed--it stank like that, but worse. "Hold this," Ty said, and a second later Kit found that Ty had shoved his blazing seraph blade into Kit's hand. It was like holding a live wire. The sword seemed to pulse and writhe, and it was all Kit could do to hang on to it. "I've never held one of these before!" he said. "My brother always says you have to start somewhere." Ty had detached a dagger from his belt. It was short and sharp and seemed altogether less fearsome a weapon than the seraph blade. Which brother ? Kit wondered, but he didn't have a chance to ask--he could hear shouts now, and running feet, and he was glad because the dark tide of things was nearly at the top of the road. He had turned his wrist a way he wouldn't have thought was possible, and the blade seemed steadier in his hand--it glowed without heat, as if it were composed of whatever made stars or moonlight. "So now that everyone's awake," Kit said, "I don't suppose that means we retreat inside?" Ty was pulling his headphones out of his pocket, bracing his black-sneakered feet just above the top step. "We're Shadowhunters," he said. "We don't run." The moon came out from behind the cloud then, just as the door behind Kit and Ty flew open, and Shadowhunters poured out. Several of the Centurions carried witchlights: The night lit up, and Kit saw the things coming up the road, spilling onto the grass. They clamored toward the Institute, and on the porch the Shadowhunters raised their weapons. "Sea demons," he heard Diana say grimly, and Kit knew suddenly that he was about to be in his first real battle, whether he liked it or not. Kit whirled around. The night was full of light and noise. The brilliance of seraph blades illuminated the darkness, which was a blessing and a curse. Kit could see Livvy and Diana with their weapons, followed by Diego, a massive ax in his hand. Zara and the other Centurions were just behind. But he could also see the sea demons, and they were much worse than he'd imagined. There were things that looked like prehistoric lizards, scaled with stone, their heads a mass of dripping needle teeth and dead black eyes. Things that looked like pulsing jelly with fanged mouths, in which hideous organs hung: misshapen hearts, transparent stomachs in which Kit could discern the outlines of what one of them had just eaten--something with human arms and legs . . . Things like huge squids with leering faces and tentacles dotted with suckers from which green acid dripped to the ground, leaving seared holes in the grass. The demons who'd killed his father were looking pretty attractive by comparison. "By the Angel," Diana breathed. "Get behind me, Centurions." Zara shot her a nasty look, though the Centurions were mostly clustered on the porch, gaping. Only Diego looked as if he literally couldn't wait to hurl himself into the fray. Veins stood out on his forehead, and his hand trembled with hatred. "We are Centurions," Zara said. "We don't take orders from you--" Diana whirled on her. "Shut up, you stupid child," she said in a voice of cold fury. "As if the Dearborns didn't cower in Zurich during the Dark War? You've never been in a real battle. I have. Don't speak another word." Zara reeled back, rigid with shock. Not a one of her Centurions, not even Samantha or Manuel, moved to argue for her. The demons--squawking, flapping, and sliding across the grass--had nearly reached the porch. Kit felt Livvy edging toward him and Ty, moving to stand in front of him. They were trying to block him, he realized suddenly. To protect him. He felt a wave of gratitude, and then a wave of annoyance--did they think he was a helpless mundane? He'd fought demons before. Deep down in his soul, something was stirring. Something that made the seraph blade blaze brighter in his hand. Something that made him understand the look on Diego's face as he turned to Diana and said, "Orders?" "Kill them all, obviously," Diana said, and the Centurions began to pour down the stairs. Diego plunged his ax into the first one he saw; runes gleamed along the blade as it slashed through jelly, spraying gray-black blood. Kit threw himself forward. The space in front of the steps had become a melee. He saw the full power of seraph blades as Centurions plunged and stabbed, and the air filled with the stench of demon blood, and the blade in his hand blazed and blazed and something caught his wrist, trapping him at the top of the steps. It was Livvy. "No," she said. "You're not ready--" "I'm fine," he protested. Ty was halfway down the steps; he drew his hand back and flung the dagger he was still holding. It sank into the wide, flat flounder-eye of a rearing fish- headed demon, which blinked into oblivion. He turned back to look at Kit and his sister. "Livvy," he said. "Let him--" The door slammed open again, and to Kit's surprise, it was Arthur Blackthorn, still in jeans with his bathrobe over them, but he had jammed his feet into shoes at least. An ancient, tarnished sword dangled from his hand. Diana, locked in combat with a lizard-demon, looked up in horror. "Arthur, no!" Arthur was panting. There was terror on his face, but something else as well, a sort of fierceness. He hurtled down the steps, flinging himself at the first demon he saw--a fringed, reddish thing with a single massive mouth and a long stinger. As the stinger came down, he sliced it in half, sending the creature bobbing and shrieking through the air like a deflating balloon. Livvy released Kit. She was staring at her uncle in amazement. Kit turned to descend the stairs, just as the demons began to draw back--retreating, but why? The Centurions had started to cheer as the space before the Institute cleared, but to Kit, it seemed too soon. The demons hadn't been losing. They hadn't been winning, but it was too early for a retreat. "Something's going on," he said, looking between Livvy and Ty, both of whom were poised on the steps with him. "Something's wrong--" Laughter pierced the air. The demons froze in a semicircle, blocking the way to the road, but not moving forward. In the middle of their semicircle walked a figure out of a horror movie. It had once been a man; he still had the blurred shape of one, but his skin was fish-belly gray-green, and he limped because most of one arm and his side had been chewed away. His shirt hung in rags, showing where the white bones of his ribs had been picked clean, the drained gray skin around his terrible wounds. His hair was mostly gone, though what remained of it was bone-white. His face was drowned and bloated, his eyes gone milky, bleached by seawater. He smiled with a mouth that was mostly lipless. In his hand he clutched a black sack, its fabric stained wet and dark. "Shadowhunters," he said. "How I've missed you." It was Malcolm Fade. In the silence that followed the unmasking of the Unseelie champion, Julian could hear his own heart slamming against his chest. He felt the burning of his parabatai rune, a clear searing pain. Emma's pain. He wanted to go to her. She stood like a knight in a painting, her head bowed and her sword at her side, blood splattering her gear, her hair half-torn out of its bindings, floating down around her. He saw her lips move: He knew what she was saying, even if he couldn't hear her. It cut through him with memories of the Emma he had known what seemed like a thousand years ago, a little girl reaching out her arms for her father to lift her up. Daddy? The King laughed. "Cut his throat, girl," he said. "Or can't you kill your own father?" "Father?" Cristina echoed. "What does he mean?" "That's John Carstairs," said Mark. "Emma's father." "But how--" "I don't know," Julian said. "It's impossible." Emma dropped to her knees, sliding Cortana back into its scabbard. In the moonlight she and her father were shadows as she bent over him. The King began to laugh, his eerie face split by a wide grin, and the Court laughed with him, howls of mirth exploding around them. No one was paying attention to the three Shadowhunters in the center of the clearing. Julian wanted to go to Emma. He wanted it desperately. But he was someone who was used to not doing, or getting, what he wanted. He spun toward Mark and Cristina. "Go to her," he said to Cristina. Her dark eyes widened. "Go to him," he said to Mark, and Mark nodded and slipped into the crowd, a shadow into shadows. Cristina disappeared after him, plunging the opposite way into the crowd. The courtiers were still laughing, the sound of their ridicule rising up, painting the night. Human emotions are so foolish to them, and human minds and hearts so fragile. Julian slid a dagger from his belt. Not a seraph blade, or even a runed one, but it was cold iron, and fit comfortably into his palm. The princes among the knights were looking toward the pavilion, laughing. It took Julian only a few steps to reach them, to throw his arms around Prince Erec from the back and press the edge of his dagger to his throat. Kit's first, distracted thought was, So that's why they haven't been able to find Malcolm's body. His second was a memory. The High Warlock had been a fixture of the Shadow Market, and friendly with Kit's father--though he had only learned later that they had been more than acquaintances, but partners in crime. Still, the lively, purple-eyed warlock had been popular at the Market, and had sometimes produced interesting candy for Kit that he claimed came from faraway places he had traveled to. It had been strange for Kit to realize that the friendly warlock he knew was a murderer. It was even stranger now to see what Malcolm had become. The warlock moved forward, stripped of all his previous grace, lurching over the grass. The Shadowhunters snapped into formation, like a Roman legion: They faced Malcolm in a line, shoulder to shoulder, their weapons out. Only Arthur stood alone. He stared at Malcolm, his mouth working. The grass in front of them all was seared black and gray by demon blood. Malcolm smirked, as well as he could with his ruined face. "Arthur," he said, gazing at the shrinking man in his bloodstained bathrobe. "You must miss me. You don't look as if you're doing well without your medication. Not at all." Arthur flattened himself against the Institute wall. There was a murmur among the Centurions, cut off when Diana spoke. "Malcolm," she said. She sounded remarkably calm, considering. "What do you want?" He came to a stop, close to the Centurions, though not close enough for them to strike. "Have you been enjoying looking for my body, Centurions? It's been a real treat to watch you. Splashing around in your invisible boat, no idea what you're looking for or how to find it. But then you never have been much use without warlocks, have you?" "Silence, filth," said Zara, vibrating like an electrical wire. "You--" Divya elbowed her. "Don't," she whispered. "Let Diana talk." "Malcolm," said Diana, in the same cold tone. "Things aren't like they were before. We have the might of the Clave on our side. We know who you are, and we will find out where you are. You are a fool to have come here and shown your hand." "My hand," he mused. "Where is my hand again? Oh, right. It's inside this bag . . . ." He plunged his hand into the sack he'd been carrying. When he drew it out, he was carrying a severed human head. There was a horrified silence. "Jon!" Diego said hoarsely. Gen Aldertree seemed about to collapse. "Oh God, poor Marisol. Oh--" Zara was staring with openmouthed horror, though she made no move to go forward. Diego took a step, but Rayan caught his arm as Diana snapped, "Centurions! Remain in formation!" There was a gagging sound as Malcolm threw Jon Cartwright's severed head onto the bare grass. Kit realized he'd made the noise himself. He was staring at Jon's exposed spinal column. It was very white against the dark ground. "I suppose you're right," Malcolm said to Diana. "It's rather time to give up our pretenses, isn't it? You know my weaknesses--and I know yours. Killing this one"--he gestured at Jon's remains--"took seconds, and taking down your wards took less. Do you think it will take much longer for me to get something I actually want?" "And what is that?" said Diana. "What is it you want, Malcolm?" "I want what I've always wanted. I want Annabel and what it will take to get her back." Malcolm laughed. It was a gurgling sort of sound. "I want my Blackthorn blood." Emma couldn't remember dropping to her knees, but she was kneeling. Churned ground and dead leaves were all around her. The faerie knight--her father--was on his back in a pool of spreading blood. It soaked into the already dark earth and turned it nearly black. "Daddy," she whispered. "Daddy, please look at me." She hadn't said the word "daddy" in years. Probably since she was seven years old. Blue eyes opened in his scarred face. He looked just as Emma remembered him--blond whiskers where he'd forgotten to shave, lines of kindness around his eyes. Dried blood spattered his cheek. He stared at her, wide-eyed. The King laughed. "Cut his throat," he said. "Or can't you kill your own father, girl?" John Carstairs's lips moved, but no sound came out. You will see again the face of someone you loved, who is dead, the phouka had said. But Emma had never dreamed this, not this. She caught hold of her father's arm, covered in leathery faerie armor. "I concede," she said raggedly, "I concede, I concede, just help him--" "She has conceded," said the King. The Court began to laugh. Laughter rose up around Emma, though she barely heard it. A voice in the back of her head was telling her that this wasn't right, there was a fundamental wrongness here, but the sight of her father was roaring in her head like the sound of a crashing wave. She reached for a stele--he was still a Shadowhunter after all--but dropped her hand; no iratze would work here. "I won't leave you," she said. Her head was buzzing. "I won't leave you here." She gripped his arm tighter, crouching at the foot of the pavilion, aware of the King's gaze on her, the laughter all around. "I'll stay." It was Arthur who moved. He burst away from the wall, careening toward Livvy and Ty. He seized each of them by an arm and propelled them toward the Institute door. They both struggled, but Arthur seemed shockingly strong. Livvy half-turned, calling Kit's name. Arthur kicked the front door open and shoved his niece and nephew through. Kit could hear Livvy shouting, and the door slammed behind them. Diana arched an eyebrow at Malcolm. "Blackthorn blood, you said?" Malcolm sighed. "Mad dogs and Englishmen," he said. "And sometimes you encounter someone who's both. He can't think that would work." "Are you saying you can get into the Institute?" Diego demanded. "I'm saying it doesn't matter," said Malcolm. "I set this all up before Emma killed me. My death--and I am dead, though not for long, isn't the Black Volume wonderful?--released the sea demons along this coast. What you see with me tonight is a tiny fraction of the numbers I control. Either you bring me a Blackthorn, or I send them up on land to murder and destroy mundanes." "We will stop you," Diana said. "The Clave will stop you. They will send Shadowhunters 55 "There aren't enough of you," said Malcolm, with glee. He had begun to pace up and down in front of the wall of sea demons that slavered behind him. "That's the beauty of the Dark War. You simply can't hold off every demon in the Pacific, not with your current numbers. Oh, I'm not saying you might not win eventually. You would. But think of the death toll in the meantime. Is one measly Blackthorn really worth it?" "We're not going to give you one of our own to murder, Fade," said Diana. "You know better than that." "You don't speak for the Clave, Diana," said Malcolm. "And they are not above sacrifices." He tried to grin. One rotted lip split, and black fluid spilled down his chin. "One for many." Diana was breathing hard, her shoulders rising and falling angrily. "And then what? All that death and destruction and what will you gain?" "You will have also suffered," said Malcolm. "And that is enough for me, for now. That the Blackthorns suffer." His eyes raked the group in front of him. "Where are my Julian and Emma? And Mark? Too cowardly to face me?" He chuckled. "Too bad. I would have liked to see Emma's face when she laid eyes on me. You may tell her I said I hope the curse consumes them both." Consumes who? Kit thought, but Malcolm's gaze had dipped to focus on him, and he saw the warlock's milky eyes glitter. "Sorry about your father, Herondale," said Malcolm. "It couldn't be helped." Kit raised Adriel over his head. The seraph blade was hot under his grip, starting to flicker, but it cast a glow all around him, one he hoped illuminated him enough that the warlock could see it when he spat in his direction. Malcolm's gaze flattened. He turned back to Diana. "I will give you until tomorrow night to decide. Then I will return. If you do not provide a Blackthorn to me, the coast will be ravaged. In the meantime--" He snapped his fingers, and a dim purple fire flickered in the air. "Enjoy amusing yourselves with my friends here." He vanished as the sea demons surged forward toward the Centurions. <|title|>Chapter 12: By the Mountains <|startofchapter|>Mark shoved his way through the Unseelie Court. He had been among these people before only for revels: the Court was not always in the same place, but moved around the Unseelie Lands. Mark could smell blood on the night air now as he darted among the close-packed gentry. He could smell panic and fear and hate. Their hate of Shadowhunters. The King was calling to the Court to be quiet, but the crowd was shouting for Emma to spill her father's blood. No one was guarding Kieran. He slumped on his knees, the weight of his body pulling against the thorned ropes that held him as if they were barbed wire. Blood oozed sluggishly around the lacerations on his wrists, neck, and ankles. Mark pushed past the last of the courtiers. This close, he could see that Kieran wore something around his neck on a chain. An elf-bolt. Mark's elf-bolt. Mark's stomach tightened. "Kieran." He put his hand against the other boy's cheek. Kieran's eyes fluttered open. His face was gray with pain and hopelessness, but his smile was gentle. "So many dreams," he said. "Is this the end? Have you come to bear me to the Shining Lands? You could not have chosen a better face to wear." Mark ran his hands along the ropes of thorns. They were tough. A seraph blade could have cut them, but seraph blades did not work here, leaving him only ordinary daggers. An idea sparked in Mark's mind, and he reached up to gently unfasten the elf-bolt from Kieran's throat. "Whatever gods have done this," Kieran whispered, "they are gracious to bring me the one my soul loves, in my last moments." His head fell back against the tree, exposing the scarlet gashes around his throat where the thorns had cut in. "My Mark." "Hush." Mark spoke through a tightened throat. The elf-bolt was sharp, and he drew the blade of it against the ropes that bound Kieran's throat and then his wrists. They fell away, and Kieran gave a gasp of pain relieved. "It is true, as they say," said Kieran. "The pain leaves you as you die." Mark slashed away the ropes binding Kieran's ankles, and straightened up. "That is enough," he said. "I am Mark, not an illusion. You are not dying, Kieran. You are living." He took Kieran by the wrist and helped him to his feet. "You are escaping." Kieran's gaze seemed dazzled by moonlight. He reached for Mark and laid his hands on Mark's shoulders. There was a moment where Mark could have drawn away, but he didn't. He stepped toward Kieran just as Kieran did toward him, and he could smell blood and cut vines on Kieran, and they were kissing. The curve of Kieran's lips under his own was as familiar to Mark as the taste of sugar or the feel of sunlight. But there was no sugar or sunlight here, nothing bright or sweet, only the dark pressure of the Court all around them and the scent of blood. And still his body responded to Kieran's, pressing the other boy up against the bark of the tree, gripping him, hands sliding on his skin, scars and fresh wounds under his fingertips. Mark felt himself lifted up and out of his body, and he was in the Hunt again, hands gripped in Windspear's mane, leaning low into the wind that tore his hair and seared his throat and carried away his laughter. Kieran's arms were around him, the only warm thing in a cold world, and Kieran's lips against his cheek. Something sang by his ear. He jerked away from Kieran. Another object whistled by and he instinctively crowded Kieran against the tree. Arrows. Each arrow tipped with flame, they ripped their way through the Court like deadly fireflies. One of the Unseelie princes was racing toward Mark and Kieran, raising a bow as he came. They had been noticed after all, it seemed. The grass in front of the Institute seemed to boil, a mass of sea demons and Centurions, whipping tentacles and slashing seraph blades. Kit half-threw himself down the stairs, almost knocking into Samantha, who, alongside her twin, was battling furiously with a grotesque gray creature covered with sucking red mouths. "Look where you're going!" she yelled, and then shrieked as a tentacle snaked around her chest. Kit whipped Adriel forward, severing the tentacle just above Samantha's shoulder. The demon shrieked from all its mouths and vanished. "Disgusting," said Samantha, who was now covered in thick grayish demon-blood. She was frowning, which seemed ungrateful to Kit, but he hardly had time to worry about it; he was already turning to raise his sword against a spiny-looking creature with nubbly, stony skin like a starfish. He thought of Ty on the beach with the starfish in his hand, smiling. It filled him with rage--he hadn't realized before how much demons seemed like the beautiful things of the world had been warped and sickened and made revolting. The blade came down. The demon shrieked and flinched back--and arms were suddenly around Kit, dragging him backward. It was Diana. She was half-drenched in blood, some human and some demon. She seized hold of Kit's arm, pulling him back toward the stairs, the Institute. "I'm fine--I don't need help--" he panted, wrenching at her grip. She plucked Adriel out of his hand and threw it toward Diego, who caught the blade and spun to drive it into the thick body of a jellyfish demon, bringing his ax down with the other hand. It was very impressive, but Kit was too angry to care. "I don't need help!" he shouted again, as Diana hauled him up the steps. "I don't need to be saved!" She spun him around to look at her. One of her sleeves was bloody, and there was a red mark on her throat where her necklace had been ripped away. But she was as imperious as always. "Maybe you don't," she said. "But the Blackthorns do, and you are going to help them." Stunned, Kit stopped fighting. Diana let go of him and shouldered the doors of the Institute open, stalking inside; after one last glance back, he followed. The moments after Julian seized Erec and put his knife to his throat were chaotic. Several of the faeries near the pavilion howled; the knights fell back, looking terrified. The Unseelie King was shouting. Julian kept his mind focused: Hold your prisoner. Keep the knife to his throat. If he gets away, you have nothing. If you kill him too quickly, you have nothing. This is your advantage. Take it. At a command from the King, the knights moved aside, forming a sort of tunnel for Julian to walk down, marching Erec ahead of him. The tunnel ended below the King's throne. The King was standing at the edge of the pavilion, his white cloak snapping in the breeze. Erec didn't struggle, but when they reached the pavilion, he craned his head back to look up at his father. Julian could feel them lock eyes. "You won't cut my son's throat," said the Unseelie King, gazing down at Julian with a look of disdain. "You're a Shadowhunter. You have a code of honor." "You're thinking of Shadowhunters the way they used to be," said Julian. "I came of age in the Dark War. I was baptized in blood and fire." "You are soft," said the King, "gentle as angels are gentle." Julian settled the knife more firmly into the curve of Erec's throat. The faerie prince smelled like fear and blood. "I killed my own father," he said. "You think I won't kill your son?" A look of surprise passed over the King's face. Adaon spoke. "He is telling the truth," he said. "Many were in the Hall of Accords during the war. It was witnessed. He is a ruthless one, that one." The King frowned. "Adaon, be silent." But he was clearly troubled. Shadows moved behind his eyes. "The price you would pay for spilling the blood of my family in my Court would be unspeakable," he said to Julian. "Not just you would pay it. All the Clave would pay it." "Then don't make me," Julian said. "Let us depart in peace. We will take Erec with us, for the distance of a mile, then let him go. No one is to follow us. If we sense we are being followed, we will kill him. I will kill him." Erec cursed and spat. "Let him kill me, Father," he said. "Let my blood begin the war we know is coming." The King's eyes rested for a moment on his son. He is the King's favorite, Mark had said. But Julian couldn't help but wonder if the King was more concerned about the war to come, controlling how and when it began, than he was about Erec's fate. "You think angels are gentle," said Julian. "They are anything but. They bring justice in blood and heavenly fire. They take vengeance with fists and iron. Their glory is such it would burn out your eyes if you looked at them. It is a cold and brutal glory." He met the King's gaze: his angry eye, and his empty one. "Look at me, if you doubt what I say I will do," said Julian. "Look at my eyes. Faeries see much, they say. Do you think I am someone who has anything to lose?" They were in the entryway: Ty, Livvy, Arthur, and the younger ones, Dru holding Tavvy in her arms. They lit up when Diana and Kit came in, though Kit didn't know if that was for him, or for her. Arthur was sitting on the stairs, silent and staring in his bloodstained bathrobe. He lunged to his feet at the sight of them, though he clung to the banister with one hand. "We heard everything," Livvy said. She was gray with shock, her hand in Ty's. "Malcolm wants Blackthorn blood and he has an army of demons--" "When he says 'Blackthorn blood,' there isn't any chance he just means, like, an ounce?" said Kit. "Maybe a pint?" Everyone glared at him except Ty. "I thought of that too," Ty said, looking delightedly at Kit. "But spells are written in archaic language. 'Blackthorn blood' means a Blackthorn life." "He isn't getting what he wants," said Diana. She shrugged off her blood-soaked jacket and threw it on the floor. "We need a Portal. Now." She dug around for her phone in her jeans pocket, found it, and began to dial. "But we can't just disappear," said Livvy. "Malcolm will release all those demons! People will be killed!" "You can't bargain with Malcolm," said Diana. "He lies. He could get the Blackthorn blood he wants and still release the demons. Getting you safe and then striking against him is the better bet." "But--" "She's right," said Kit. "Malcolm promised all sorts of things to my dad, including keeping him safe. In the end, it turned out he'd made sure that if anything happened to him, my father would die too." "Catarina?" Diana turned aside, the phone pressed to her ear. "I need a favor. A big one." "We'll be seen as cowards," said Dru unhappily. "Running away like this--" "You are children," said Arthur. "No one would expect you to stand and fight." He went across the room to the window. No one moved to join him. The sounds coming from outside were enough. Tavvy had his face pressed against his sister's shoulder. "To London?" said Diana. "That's fine. Thanks, Catarina." She hung the phone up. "London?" said Livvy. "Why London?" "Why don't we go to Idris?" said Dru. "Where Emma and Jules are." "Catarina can't open up a Portal to Idris," said Diana, not meeting Dru's gaze. "But she has an arrangement with the London Institute." "Then we should contact the Clave!" said Dru. She jumped back as the air in front of her began to shimmer. "We need to get our things," said Tavvy, looking at the growing shimmer with worry. It was spreading, a sort of pinwheel now of whirling colors and moving air. "We can't go with nothing." "We don't have time for any of that," said Diana. "And we don't have time to contact the Clave. And there are Blackthorn houses in London, safe places, people you know--" "But why?" Livvy began. "If the Clave--" "It's entirely possible the Clave would prefer to trade one of you to Malcolm," said Arthur. "Isn't that what you mean, Diana?" Diana said nothing. The whirling pinwheel was resolving into a shape: the shape of a door, tall and broad, surrounded by glowing runes. "As would the Centurions, at least some of them," said Diana. "We are running from them, as much as from anyone else. They are already vanquishing the sea demons. There is little time." "Diego would never--" Dru began indignantly. "Diego isn't in charge," said Diana. The Portal had resolved into a steadily wavering door, which was open; through it, Kit could see a living room of sorts, with faded, flowered wallpaper. It seemed incongruous in the extreme. "Now, come--Drusilla, you first--" With a look of despairing anger, Drusilla crossed the room and stepped through the Portal, still holding Tavvy. Kit watched in stunned amazement as they spun away, vanishing. Livvy moved toward the Portal next, hand in hand with Ty. She paused in front of it, the force of the magic that pulsed through it lifting her hair. "But we can't leave this place to Zara and the Cohort," she protested, turning toward Diana. "We can't let them have it--" "Better than any of you dying," Diana said. "Now, go." But it was Ty who hesitated. "Kit's coming, right?" Diana looked at Kit. He felt his throat hurt; he didn't know why. "I'm coming," he said. He watched as Livvy and Ty stepped into the colorful void, watched as they vanished. Watched as Diana followed. Stepped up to the Portal himself, and paused there, looking at Arthur. "Did you want to go first?" he said. Arthur shook his head. There was an odd look on his face--odd even for Arthur. Though Arthur hadn't been that odd tonight, Kit thought. It was as if the emergency had forced him to hold himself together in a way he normally couldn't. "Tell them," he said, and the muscles in his face twitched. Behind him, the front door shook; someone was trying to open it. "Tell them--" "You'll be able to tell them yourself, in a minute," said Kit. He could feel the force of the Portal pulling at him. He even thought he could hear voices through it--Ty's voice, Livvy's. Yet he stood where he was. "Is something going on?" he said. Arthur moved toward the Portal. For a moment, Kit relaxed, thinking Arthur was going to step into it beside him. Instead he felt a hand on his shoulder. "Tell Julian thank you," Arthur said, and shoved, hard. Kit fell into the whirling, soundless nothingness. The faerie prince let fly his arrow. Kieran moved faster than Mark would have thought possible. He swung his body around, covering Mark's. The arrow whistled through the air, singing like a deadly bird. Mark only had time to grab for Kieran to push him away when the arrow struck, burying itself in Kieran's back just below his shoulder blade. He slumped against Mark's shoulder. With his free hand, Mark pulled a dagger from his belt and threw it; the prince fell, screaming, the blade in his thigh. Mark began to drag Kieran from the clearing. The arrows had stopped, but fire was blooming from the banners with their mark of the broken crown. They had caught fire. The gentry faeries were screaming and milling, many breaking free to run. Still holding Kieran, Mark vanished into the forest. "Emma," Cristina whispered. The clearing was thick with noise; laughter, hoots and jeers. In the distance she could see Julian with his knife to Erec's throat; gasps rose up as he pushed his way toward the King's pavilion, though the King, distracted by Emma, had not yet seen. Emma was kneeling on the ground, gripping the arm of the wounded Faerie champion. She looked up and saw Cristina, and her eyes brightened. "Help me with my dad," Emma said. She was tugging at her father's arm, trying to get it looped around her neck. He lay motionless, and for a moment Cristina feared he was dead. He pulled away from Emma and lumbered to his feet. He was a slender man, tall, and the family resemblance was clear: He had Emma's features, the shape of her eyes. His were blank, though, their blue dulled to milkiness. "Let me go," he said. "Bitch Nephilim girl. Let me go. This has gone far enough." Cristina's blood froze at his words. The King burst out into another round of laughter. Cristina caught at Emma, pulling her toward her. "Emma, you can't believe everything you see here." "This is my father," said Emma. Cristina was holding her wrist; she could feel the pulse pounding in Emma's veins. Emma held her free hand out. "Dad," she said. "Please. Come with "You are Nephilim," said Emma's father. Faintly, on his throat, the white scars of old Marks were visible. "If you touch me, I will drag you to the feet of my King, and he will have you killed." The faeries all around them were giggling, uproarious, clutching at each other, and the thought that it was Emma's horror and confusion that was making them chuckle sent spikes of murderous rage through Cristina's veins. It was one thing to study faeries. One thing to read about how their emotions were not like human emotions. Flow the Unseelie Court faeries were raised to find pleasure in the pain of others. To wrap you in a net of words and lies and watch smiling while you choked on their tricks. It was another thing to see it. There was a sudden commotion. The Unseelie King ran to the opposite edge of the pavilion; he was shouting orders, the knights in sudden disarray. Julian, Cristina thought. And yes, she could see him, Julian holding Erec in front of him, at the foot of the King's pavilion. Ele had deliberately drawn the King away from Emma and Cristina. "It will be easy enough to decide this," Cristina said. She took her balisong from her belt and held it out to the champion. "Take this," she said. "Cristina, what are you doing--?" Emma said. "It is cold iron," said Cristina. She took another two steps toward the champion. His face was changing even as she watched, less and less like Emma's, more and more like something else--something grotesque living under the skin. "He's a Shadowhunter. Cold iron shouldn't bother him." She moved closer--and the champion who had looked like John Carstairs changed completely. His face rippled and his body flexed and changed, his skin growing mottled and gray-green. His lips pushed outward as his eyes sprang horrifyingly wide and yellow, his hair receding to show a slick, lumpy pate. Where Emma's father had stood was a faerie knight with a squat body and the head of a toad. Emma stared, white-faced. Its wide mouth opened and it spoke in a croaking voice. "At last, at last, free to slough the illusion of the disgusting Nephilim--" It didn't finish its sentence. Emma had seized up Cortana and lunged forward, slamming the blade into the knight's throat. It made a wet, squelching sound. Pus-colored blood sprayed from its wide mouth; it staggered back, but Emma followed, twisting the hilt of the knife. The stench of blood and the sound of wetly tearing flesh almost made Cristina vomit. "Emma!" Cristina shouted. "Emma!" Emma drew the sword back and stabbed again, and again, until Cristina grabbed her shoulders and yanked her back. The faerie knight sank to the ground, dead. Emma was shaking, spattered with foul blood. She swayed on her feet. "Come on." Cristina grabbed her friend's arm, started to pull her away from the pavilion. Just then the air exploded with a rustling, singing sound. Arrows. They were tipped with fire, lighting the clearing with an eerie, moving glow. Cristina automatically ducked, only to hear a loud clang a few inches from her head. Emma had whipped Cortana to the side and an arrow had struck the blade, crumbling instantly into pieces. Cristina picked up her pace. "We have to get out of here--" A flaming arrow shot by them and struck a banner dangling from the King's pavilion. The banner caught alight in crackling flames. It illuminated the princes running from the pavilion, dropping off the edges into shadow. The King still stood before his throne, though, staring down into emptiness. Where was Jules? Where had he and Erec gone? As they neared the edge of the clearing, the faerie woman in the bone dress loomed up in front of them. Her eyes were fish-green, without pupils, shimmering like oil in the starlight. Cristina brought her foot down hard on the faerie woman's; her screams were drowned in the Court's howls as Cristina elbowed her aside. She crashed into the pavilion, small bones raining down from her gown like misshapen snow. Emma's hand was in Cristina's. Her fingers felt like ice. Cristina tightened her grip. "Come on," she said, and they plunged back into the trees. Mark didn't dare go far. Julian, Emma, and Cristina were still in the Court. He pulled Kieran behind a thick oak tree and drew him down to sit leaning against it. "Are you all right? Are you in pain?" Mark demanded. Kieran looked at him with clear exasperation. Before Mark could stop him, he reached back, grasped the arrow, and yanked it out. Blood came with it, a welter that soaked the back of his shirt. "Christ, Kieran, what the hell--" "What foreign gods do you call on now?" Kieran demanded. "I thought you said I wasn't dying." "You weren't." Mark pulled off his linen vest, wadding up the material to press it to Kieran's back. "Except now I might kill you for being so stupid." "Hunters heal fast," said Kieran with a gasp. "Mark. It really is you." His eyes were luminous. "I knew you would come for me." Mark said nothing. He was concentrating on holding the cloth against Kieran's wound, but a sense of anxiety pressed against the inside of his rib cage. He and Kieran had hardly ended things on good terms. Why would Kieran think Mark would come for him, when Mark very nearly hadn't? "Kier," he said. He moved the vest away; Kieran was right about the healing. The blood had slowed to a sluggish trickle. Mark dropped the blood-wet linen and touched the side of Kieran's face. It was furnace hot. "You're burning up." He reached up to sling the elf-bolt necklace back around Kieran's throat, but the other boy stopped him. "Why do I have your necklace?" he said, frowning. "It should be yours." "I gave it back to you," Mark said. Kieran gave a hoarse laugh. "I would remember that." His eyes went wide then. "I don't remember killing Iarlath," he said. "I know that I did. They told me that much. And I believe it; he was a bastard. But I don't remember it. I don't remember anything after I saw you through the window of the Institute, in the kitchen, talking to that girl. Cristina." Mark went cold all over. Automatically, he slung the elf-bolt necklace over his head, feeling it thump against his chest. Kieran didn't remember ? That meant he didn't remember betraying Mark, telling the Wild Hunt that Mark had shared faerie secrets with Nephilim. He didn't remember the punishment, the whippings Julian and Emma had borne. He didn't remember that Mark had broken things off between them. Given him his necklace back. No wonder he'd thought Mark would come for him. "That girl Cristina is right here," said a voice above them. Cristina had joined them in the shadows. She looked disheveled, though not nearly as much as Emma, who was splattered with faerie blood and bleeding from a long scratch on her cheek. Mark sprang up. "What's going on? Are either of you hurt?" "I--I think we're all right," Emma said. She sounded bewildered and worryingly blank. "Emma killed the King's champion," said Cristina, and then closed her mouth. Mark sensed there was more to it, but didn't press. Emma blinked, slowly focusing on Mark and Kieran. "Oh, it's you," she said to Kieran, sounding more like her old self. "Weasel Face. Committed any acts of monstrous personal betrayal lately?" Kieran looked stunned. People didn't usually talk to Unseelie princes that way, and besides, Mark thought, Kieran no longer remembered why Emma might be angry with him or accuse him of betrayal. "You brought her here with you to rescue me?" he said to Mark. "We all came to rescue you." It was Julian, only partly visible behind Erec, who he was shoving ahead of him. Emma exhaled, an audible sound of relief. Julian looked over at her quickly, and they shared a glance. It was what Mark had always thought of as the parabatai glance: the quick once-over to make sure the other person was all right, that they were beside you, safe and living. Though now that he knew of Julian's true feelings for Emma, he couldn't help but wonder if there was a layer more to what they shared. Erec's throat was bleeding where the dagger had likely slipped; he was glaring out from beneath black brows, his face contorted into a snarl. "Blood traitor," he said to Kieran. He spat past the knife. "Kin-slayer." "Iarlath was no kin of mine," said Kieran, in an exhausted voice. "He was more your kin than these monsters," said Erec, glaring around at the Shadowhunters surrounding him. "Even now, you betray us for them." "As you betrayed me to the King our father?" said Kieran. He was huddled among the tree roots, looking surprisingly small, but when he tipped his face back to look at Erec, his eyes were hard as gems. "You think I do not know who told the King I killed Iarlath? You think I do not know at whose feet I can lay the blame for my exile to the Hunt?" "Arrogant," said Erec. "You have always been arrogant, whelp, thinking you belonged in the Court with the rest of us. I am the King's favorite, not you. You earned no special place in his heart or the hearts of the Court." "Yet they liked me better," Kieran said quietly. "Before--" "Enough," Julian said. "The Court is on fire. Knights will be coming after us as soon as the chaos dies down. It's madness to stay here and gossip." "Important Court business is not gossip," snarled Erec. "It is to me." Julian peered through the woods. "There must be a quick way out of here, toward Seelie Lands. Can you lead us?" Erec was silent. "He can," said Kieran, rising unsteadily to his feet. "He can't lie and say it's not possible; that's why he's not talking." Emma raised an eyebrow at Kieran. "Weasel Face, you're surprisingly helpful when you want to be." "I wish you would not be so familiar," Kieran said disapprovingly. Erec made a grunting noise--Julian was digging the knife into his neck. There was a slight tremble to Julian's hand, his grip on the blade. Mark imagined it must be a physical strain to keep Erec contained, but he suspected there was more to it than that. Julian did not have a torturer's nature, for all that he could and would be ruthless in protecting those he loved. "I will kill you if you don't take us in the right direction," he said now. "I will do it slowly." "You promised my father--" "I am not a faerie," said Julian. "I can lie." Erec looked darkly furious, in a way that alarmed Mark. Faeries could hold grudges for a very long time. He began to walk, though, and the others followed him, leaving behind the orange light glowing from the clearing. They headed into the dark fastness of the forest. The trees grew close together, and there were thick roots snaking up through the dark soil. Clusters of flowers in deep colors, blood- reds and poison-greens, clustered around the low boughs of the trees. They passed a giggling tree faerie who sat in the fork of a branch, naked except for an elaborate net of silvery wires, and winked at Mark as he went by. Kieran was leaning heavily against his shoulder; Mark kept a hand splayed in the small of Kieran's back. Were the others puzzled or wondering what was going on between them? He saw Cristina glance back toward him, but couldn't read her expression. Emma and Cristina walked close together. Julian was in front, letting Erec guide them. Mark still felt uneasiness. It seemed as if they had gotten away too easily. For the King of the Unseelie Court to have let them go, and to have them take his favorite son... "Where are the others?" Erec asked as the trees thinned out and the sky, multicolored in all its glory, became visible. "Your friends?" "Friends?" Mark said, in a puzzled tone. "The archers," said Erec. "Those flaming arrows in the Court--clever, I'll grant you. We wondered how you would cope with weapons once we took your angel powers away." "How did you do that?" Mark asked. "Did you unhallow all this land?" "That wouldn't make a difference," said Emma. "Runes work even in demon realms. This is something stranger." "And the blight," said Mark. "What is the meaning of the blighted land? It is everywhere in the Unseelie Lands, like cancer in a sick body." "As if I would speak of it," snapped Erec. "And it is no use threatening me--it would be worth my life to tell you." "Believe me, I'm tired of threatening you myself," said Julian. "Then let me go," said Erec. "How long do you plan to keep me? Forever? For that is how long you'd have to use me for protection to keep my father and his knights from finding you and cutting your throats." "I said I was tired of threatening you, not that I was going to stop doing it," said Jules, tapping the knife blade. They'd come to the edge of the forest, where the trees ended and fields began. "Now, which way?" Erec set off into the field, and they followed. Kieran was leaning more heavily on Mark. His face was very pale in the moonlight. The stars picked out the blue and green in his hair--his mother had been an ocean faerie, and a little of the shimmering loveliness of water remained in the colors of Kieran's hair and eyes. Mark's arm curved around him unconsciously. He was angry at Kieran, yes, but here in Faerie, under the brilliant polychromatic stars, it was hard not to remember the past, not to think of all the times he'd clung to Kieran for warmth and companionship. How it had been just them, and he had thought perhaps it always would be. How he'd thought himself lucky that someone like Kieran, a prince, and beautiful, would ever look at him. Kieran's whisper was a light caress against Mark's neck. "Windspear." Windspear was Kieran's horse, or had been. He had come with him from the Court when Kieran had joined the Hunt. "What about him? Where is he?" "With the Hunt," said Kieran, and coughed, hard. "He was a gift from Adaon, when I was very young." Mark had never before met Kieran's half brothers, the dozens of princes by different mothers who vied for the Unseelie Throne. Adaon, he knew from Kieran's tales, was one of the kinder ones. Erec was the opposite. He had been brutal to Kieran for most of his life. Kieran rarely spoke of him without anger. "I thought I heard his hoofbeats," Kieran said. "I hear them still." Mark listened. At first he heard nothing. His hearing was not as sharp as Kieran's or any true faerie's, at least not when his runes weren't working. He had to strain his ears to finally hear the sound. It was hoofbeats, but not Windspear's. Not any one horse's. This was a thunder of hoofbeats, dozens of them, coming from the forest. "Julian!" he cried. There was no keeping the panic from his voice; Jules heard it and turned, fast, his grip on Erec loosening. Erec tore away, exploding into motion. He streaked across the field, his black cloak flying behind him, and plunged into the forest. "And he was such awesome company, too," Emma muttered. "All that 'Nephilim, you will die in a welter of your own blood' stuff was really refreshing." She paused. She had heard the horses. "What's that--?" Cortana seemed to fly into her hand. Julian was still holding his dagger; Cristina had reached for her balisong. "The King's cavalry," said Kieran, with surprising calm. "You cannot fight them." "We must run," Mark said. "Now." No one argued. They ran. They tore through the field, leaped a stone wall on the far side, Mark half-carrying Kieran over. The ground had begun to tremble by then with the force of distant hoofbeats. Julian was swearing, a low steady stream of curses. Mark guessed he didn't get to swear all that much back at the Institute. They were moving fast, but not fast enough, unless they could find more woods, some kind of cover. But nothing was visible in the distance, and looking up at the stars told Mark little. He was exhausted enough that they dizzied him. Half his strength felt as if it were going to Kieran: not just dragging him along but willing him upright. They reached another wall, not high enough to stop faerie horses but high enough to be annoying. Emma leaped it; Julian sprang after her, his fingers lightly brushing the top of the wall as he sailed over. Kieran shook his head. "I cannot do it," he said. "Kier--" Mark began angrily, but Kieran had his head down, like a beaten dog. His hair fell, sweat-tangled, into his face, and his shirt and the waist of his breeches were soaked in blood. "You're bleeding again. I thought you said you were healing." "I thought I was," Kieran said softly. "Mark, leave me here--" A hand touched Mark's shoulder. Cristina. She had put her knife away. She looked at him levelly. "I'll help you get him over the wall." "Thanks," Mark said. Kieran didn't seem to even have the energy to look at her angrily. She scrambled to the wall's top and reached her hands down; together she and Mark hauled Kieran up over the barrier. They jumped down, into the grass beside Emma and Julian, who were waiting, looking worried. Kieran landed beside them and collapsed to the ground. "He can't keep running," said Mark. Julian glanced over the wall. The hoofbeats were loud now, like thunder overhead. The leading edge of the Unseelie cavalry was in view, a dark and moving line. "He has to," he said. "They'll kill us." "Leave me here," said Kieran. "Let them kill me." Julian dropped to one knee. He put a hand under Kieran's chin, forcing the prince's face up so their eyes met. "You called me ruthless," he said, his fingers pale against Kieran's bloodied skin. "I have no pity for you, Kieran. You brought this on yourself. But if you think we came all the way here to save your life just to let you he down and die, you're more foolish than I thought." His hand fell from Kieran's face to his arm, hauling him upright. "Help me, Mark." Together they lifted Kieran between them and started forward. It was a blindingly hard task. Panic and the strain of holding up Kieran threw off Mark's hunting senses; they stumbled over rocks and roots, plunged into a thick copse of trees, its branches reaching down to tear at their skin and gear. Halfway through the copse, Kieran went limp. He had finally fainted. "If he dies--" Mark began. "He won't die," Julian said grimly. "We could hide him here, come back to get him--" "He's not a spare pair of shoes. We can't just leave him somewhere and expect him to be there when we get back," Julian hissed. "Would you two stop--" Emma began, and then broke off with a gasp. "Oh!" They had burst out of the small patch of trees. In front of them rose a hill, green and smooth. They could climb it, but it would demand digging in with hands and feet, scrambling over the top. It would be impossible to do and keep Kieran with them. Even Julian stopped dead. Kieran's arm had been looped around Julian's neck; now it swung free, dangling at his side. Mark had the distant horrible feeling he was already dead. He wanted to lay Kieran down in the grass, check for his heartbeat, hold him as a Hunter should be held in his last moments. Instead he turned his head and looked behind them. Cristina had her eyes closed; she was holding her pendant, her mouth moving in silent prayer. Emma held Cortana the same way, her eyes watchful and glittering. She would defend them to the last, Kieran too; she would go down under the hooves of the dark cavalry. And they were coming. Mark could see them, shadows between the trees. Horses like black smoke, blazing eyes like red coals, shod in silver and burning gold. Fire and blood gave them life: They were murderous, and brutal. Mark thought he could see the King, riding at their head. His battle helmet was etched with a pattern of screaming faces. Its faceplate covered only that half of the King's face that was human and beautiful, leaving the dead gray skin exposed. His single eye burned like red poison. The sound of their coming was like the sound of a glacier breaking apart. Deafening, deadly. Mark wished suddenly that he could hear what Cristina was saying, the words of her quiet prayer. He watched her lips move. Angel, provide for us, bless us, save us. "Mark." Julian turned his head toward his brother, his blue-green eyes suddenly unguarded, as if he were about to say something he had been desperate to say for a long time. "If you--" The hill seemed to crack apart. A large square in the front of it peeled away from the rest and swung open like a door. Mark's mouth fell open. He had heard of such things, hills with doors in the sides, but he had never seen one. Light glowed from the opening. It seemed to be a corridor, winding into the heart of the hill. A young faerie woman with gently pointed ears, her pale hair bound back with ropes of flowers, stood in the entryway, holding a lamp. She reached out a hand toward them. "Come," she said, and her voice had the undeniable accent of the Seelie Court. "Come quickly, before they reach you, for the King's riders are savage and they will not leave you alive." "Andyou?" Julian said. "Do you mean us well?" Only Julian would argue with providence, Mark thought. But then Julian trusted no one but his family. And sometimes, not even them. The woman smiled. "I am Nene," she said. "I will aid you and not harm you. But come, now, quickly." Mark heard Cristina whisper a thank-you. Then they were all racing again, not daring to look behind them. One by one they leaped through the door and onto the packed earth inside. Mark and Julian came last, carrying Kieran. Mark caught one last glimpse of the dark riders behind them, and heard their screams of disappointed rage. Then the door slammed shut behind them, sealing up the hill. <|title|>Chapter 13: Dreamland <|startofchapter|>Emma looked around in wonder. The entranceway bore no traces of having been carved out of a hillside. It was made of smooth ash-colored stone, the roof of blue marble patterned with gilded stars. A shadowed corridor led deeper into the hill. The faerie woman, Nene, raised her lamp. It was filled with darting fireflies that cast a limited glow over their small group. Emma saw Julian with his mouth set in a hard line, Cristina holding her pendant tightly. Mark was lowering Kieran to the ground, his hands gentle. It took her a moment to realize Kieran was unconscious, his head lolling back, clothes dappled in blood. "We are on Seelie Lands now," said Nene. "You can use your runes and witchlights." Her gaze on Kieran was troubled. "You can heal your friend." "We can't." Julian flipped his witchlight out of his pocket. Its illumination rushed over Emma like the relief of water in the desert. "He's not a Shadowhunter." Nene drifted closer, her pale eyebrows arched in consternation. Mark was on the ground, holding Kieran, whose face was drained icy-white, his closed eyes pale crescents in his blanched face. "Is he a Hunter?" she asked. "We both--" began Mark. "Is there anything you can do for him?" Emma interrupted, before Mark said too much. "Yes." Nene knelt down, setting her lamp on the floor beside her. She took a vial from the inside of the sleeveless white fur jacket she wore over her dress. She hesitated, looking at Mark. "You do not need this? You are not injured?" He shook his head, puzzled. "No, why?" "I brought it for you." She uncorked it. Setting it to Kieran's lips, she crooned something under her breath in a language unfamiliar to Emma. Kieran's lips parted and he swallowed. Pale gold liquid ran from the corners of his mouth. His eyes fluttered open and he pulled himself upright, swallowing a second mouthful and a third. His eyes met Nene's over the rim of the bottle and he turned his face away, wiping his mouth with his sleeve. "Save the rest," he said hoarsely. "It's enough." He staggered to his feet, Mark helping him. The others had put away their steles. A new Healing rune burned on Emma's arm, an Energy rune beside it. Still, her body ached, and her heart hurt. She kept seeing her father, over and over, looking up at her from the grass. It hadn't been him, not really, but that didn't make the image less painful. "Come," said Nene, putting the vial away. "The drink will only sustain him a short time. We must hurry to the Court." She started down the corridor and the others followed, Mark supporting the staggering Kieran. Julian had his witchlight stone out, and the hall was bright. The walls looked like intricate mosaic from a distance, but up close Emma could see that they were clear resin, behind which the petals of flowers and wings of butterflies were pressed flat. "My lady," said Cristina. Her hair, like Emma's, was tangled with leaves and burrs. "What did you mean you brought that drink for Mark? How did you know he would come here ?" "We had guests, here in the Court," said Nene. "A Shadowhunter girl with red hair and a blond boy." "Jace Herondale and Clary Fairchild," guessed Emma. "They told me of the Blackthorns. That was a name I knew. My sister Nerissa loved a Blackthorn man, and had two of his children, and died of her love of him when he left her." Mark stopped in his tracks. Kieran gave a slight hiss of pain. "You're my mother's sister?" he said incredulously. "I think they usually call that your aunt," said Emma. Mark gave her a dark look. "I am the one who carried you and your sister to your father's doorstep and left you there for him to raise," said Nene. "You are my blood." "I am beginning to wonder if any of you do not have a long-lost relative in Faerie," said Kieran. "I don't," said Cristina, sounding regretful. "Half Mark's relatives are faeries," pointed out Emma. "Where else would they be?" "How did you know I would need saving?" said Mark to the faerie woman. "The phouka who let you through the moon gate is an old friend," Nene said. "He told me of your journey, and I guessed your mission. I knew you would not survive the Lord of Shadows' tricks without aid." "The burning arrows," Julian said. The corridor had now turned from stone and tile to packed earth. Roots dangled from the ceiling, each one twined with glimmering flowers that lit the darkness. Veins of minerals in the rock shimmered and changed as Emma looked at them. "That was you." Nene nodded. "And a few others, of the Queen's Guard. Then I had only to stay a few steps ahead of you and open this door. It was not simple, but there are many doors to Seelie, all over the King's Lands. More than he knows." She cast a sharp look at Kieran. "You will not speak of this, will you, Hunter?" "I thought you imagined me Nephilim," said Kieran. "That was before I saw your eyes," she said. "Like my nephew, you are a servant of Gwyn." She sighed softly. "If my sister Nerissa had known her son would grow to be so cursed, it would have broken her heart." Julian's face darkened, but before he could speak, a figure loomed up in front of them. They had reached a place where the corridor opened into a circular room, with other hallways leading off it in a dizzying array of directions. Blocking their forward progress was a faerie knight. A tall, wheat-skinned man with a somber expression, he wore robes and a doublet of brilliant multicolored fabric. "Fergus," said Nene. "Let us go by." He arched a dark brow and replied with a torrent of words in an odd, birdlike language-- not angry, but clearly annoyed. Nene held up a hand, her voice sharp in response. As Emma watched her, she thought she could detect some resemblance to Mark. Not just the pale blond hair, but the delicacy of her bones, the deliberateness of her gestures. The knight sighed and stepped aside. "We can go now, but we will be called to an audience with the Queen at first light," said Nene, hurrying forward. "Come, help me get the Hunter to a room." Emma had quite a few questions--how they could tell when it was first light down here, why Nene seemed to dislike the Wild Hunt so much, and, of course, where they were going. She kept them to herself, though, and eventually they reached the end of a corridor where the walls were polished rock, gleaming with semiprecious stones: tiger's-eye, azurite, jasper. Gaps in the rock were covered with long velvet hangings, embroidered with glimmering thread. Nene swept one of the hangings aside, revealing a room whose walls were smooth and curved in toward a domed ceiling. White hangings drifted down, half-covering a bed made of thick branches wound with flowers. Nene set down her lamp. "Lay the Hunter down," she said. Kieran had gone quiet since they'd entered the Seelie Court proper. He let Mark lead him over to the bed. He looked pretty awful, Emma thought, as Mark helped Kieran settle onto the mattress. She wondered how many times Mark had done this sort of thing for Kieran when Kieran was exhausted after a hunt--or how many times Kieran had done it for Mark. Being a Hunter was a risky job; she couldn't imagine how much of each other's blood they'd seen. "Is there a healer in this Court?" Mark asked, straightening up. "I am the healer," said Nene. "Though I rarely work alone. Usually I am assisted, but the hour is late and the Court half-empty." Her gaze feh on Cristina. "You will help me." "Me?" Cristina looked startled. "You have a healing air about you," said Nene, bustling up to a wooden cabinet and throwing the doors open. In it were jars of herbs, dangling strings of dried flowers, and vials of different-colored liquids. "Can you name any of these?" "Foamflower," said Cristina promptly, as if they were in class. "Miner's lettuce, false lily, queen's cup." Nene looked impressed. She pulled a stack of linens, including strips cut neatly into bandage size, from a drawer and handed them to Cristina. "Too many people in the room will slow a patient's healing. I will take these two next door; you must remove Kieran's clothes." Cristina's cheeks flamed. "Mark can do that." Nene rolled her eyes. "As you like." She turned toward the bed, where Kieran was collapsed back against the pillows. There were rusty smears of blood all over Mark's shirt and skin, but he didn't seem to notice. "Crush some foamflower, give it to him with water. Do not bandage him yet. We must inspect the wound." She hurried from the room, and Emma and Julian dashed after her. They went only a few steps down the corridor, to where a dark red curtain hid an open door. Nene pushed it aside and gestured the two of them to come in. Once inside, Emma had to suppress a gasp. This room was much grander than the other. The roof was lost in shadows. The walls were silvery quartz, and glowed from within, lighting the room with a soft radiance. Creamy white and ivory flowers cascaded down the walls, perfuming the air with the scent of a garden. A massive bed stood on a platform, steps leading up to it. It was piled with velvet cushions and a rich coverlet. "Will this do?" Nene asked. Emma could only nod. A hedge atop which grew a lattice of roses stretched across one end of the room, and behind it a cascade of water rushed down the rocks. When she glanced around the hedge, she saw that it emptied into a rock pool, lined with green and blue stones that formed the shape of a butterfly. "Not as fancy as the Institute," she heard Julian say, "but it'll do." "Whose room is this?" Emma asked. "Is it the Queen's?" Nene laughed. "The Queen's chambers? Certainly not. This is Fergus's--actually, he has two. He is much favored in Court. He won't mind if you sleep here; he has night watch." She turned to walk away, but stopped at the curtain and glanced back at them. "You are my nephew's brother and sister?" Emma opened her mouth, then closed it again. Mark was more of a brother to her than anything else. Certainly more of a brother than Julian. "Yes," Julian said, sensing her hesitation. "And you love him," said Nene. "I think you will find, if you take the time to get to know him, that he is easy to love," said Jules, and Emma's heart expanded, yearning for him, for him and Mark together, happy and laughing as brothers should be, and for the challenge in Julian's eyes when he looked at Nene. You owe my brother the love he deserves; show it, or I turn my back on you. Nene cleared her throat. "And my niece? Alessa?" "Her name is Helen now," said Julian. He paused for a moment, and Emma could see him weighing the mention of Helen's situation and dismissing it--he did not trust Nene enough, not yet. "Yes, she is my sister; yes, I love her as I love Mark. They are both easy to love." "Easy to love," echoed Nene, in a musing voice. "There are few of our people I would ever have said were easy to love." She ducked back through the door. "I must hurry back, before that Hunter boy expires," she said, and was gone. Julian looked at Emma with arched eyebrows. "She's very..." "Yes," agreed Emma, not needing the rest of the words to know what he meant. She and Julian almost always agreed on people. She felt her mouth curve up as she smiled at him, despite everything, despite the incredible, impossible strain of the night. And it wasn't as if the risk was over, she thought, turning to gaze at the room. She had hardly ever been in such a beautiful space. She had even heard of cave hotels, places in Cappadocia and Greece where gorgeous rooms were dug out of rocks and draped with silks and velvets. But it was the flowers, here, that tugged at her heart--those white flowers that smelled like cream and sugar, like the white flowers that grew in Idris. They seemed to radiate light. And then there was the bed. With a sort of belated shock, she realized that she and Julian had been left alone together in a wildly romantic room with only one, very large and very plush, bed. Definitely, the night's worries were not over, at all. When Nene returned, she cleaned Kieran's wound gently with damp linens, pressing the edges of the cut carefully with her fingers. He sat upright and rigid on the edge of the bed, not moving or acknowledging what was going on, but Cristina could see from the deep crescent marking his lower lip that he was in pain. Mark sat quietly beside him. He seemed wrung out, exhausted, and did not move to hold Kieran's hand, only sat with his shoulder touching the other boy's. But then, they had never been the hand-holding type, Cristina thought. The Wild Hunt had not been a place where such gentle expressions of affection were welcome. "There was monkshood on the Unseelie's arrow," Nene said when she was done cleaning the wound. She held her hand out for a bandage and began wrapping Kieran's slender torso. He had been undressed and re-dressed in clean trousers, a shirt folded on the bed next to him. There were scars on Kieran's back, not unlike the ones on Mark's, and they stretched to the tops of his arms and down his forearms, too. He was thin but strong-looking, with clear lines of muscles in his arms and across his chest. "If you were a human or even ordinary fey, it would have killed you, but Hunters have their own protection. You will live." "Yes," Kieran said, an arrogant tilt to his chin. But Cristina wondered. He didn't say, Yes, I knew I would live. He had doubted, she suspected. He had feared he would die. She rather admired his bravery. She couldn't help it. Nene rolled her eyes, finishing with the bandages. She tapped Cristina's shoulder as Kieran shrugged his shirt on, doing the buttons up with slow, shaking fingers, and indicated a shallow marble dish on the nightstand, filled with damp cloths swimming in a greenish liquid. "Those are poultices to prevent infection. Put a new one on the wound every two hours." Cristina nodded. She wasn't sure how she would set an alarm or wake up every two hours, or if she was simply meant to stay awake through the night, but she would manage, either way. "Here," Nene said, leaning down to Kieran with another vial. "Drink this. It will not harm you, only help you." After a moment, Kieran drank. Suddenly he pushed the vial away, coughing. "How dare you--" he began, and then his eyes rolled back and he sank down to the pillows. Mark caught him before his wounded back could touch the bed, and helped Nene carefully roll him onto his side. "Don't feel bad," Mark said, noticing Nene's set jaw. "He always falls asleep yelling that." "He needed to rest," was all Nene said. She swept from the room. Mark watched her go, his face troubled. "She is not what I imagined, when I dreamed that I might have family in Faerie," he said. "For so many years I looked and asked, and there was no sign of them. I had given up." "She went out of her way to find you and save you," said Cristina. "She clearly cares for you." "She doesn't know me," said Mark. "Faeries feel very strongly about blood. She could not leave me to fall into the hands of the Unseelie King. What happens to one member of a family reflects upon the others of that bloodline." She touched your hair, Cristina wanted to say. She had seen it only very quickly: As Nene had reached to bandage Kieran's back, her fingers had brushed the fine edges of Mark's pale hair. He hadn't noticed, and Cristina wondered now, if she told him, if he would even believe her. Cristina sat down on the foot of the bed. Kieran had curled up, his dark hair tangled beneath his restless head. Mark was leaning back against the headboard. His bare feet were on the bed, only a few inches from Cristina; his arm lay outstretched, his fingers nearly touching hers. But his gaze was on Kieran. "He doesn't remember," he said. "Kieran? What doesn't he remember?" Mark pulled his knees up to his chest. In his torn and bloody shirt and trousers, he looked more like the ragged figure he'd been when the Wild Hunt had let him go. "The Unseelie Court beat him and tortured him," he said. "I expected it. It's what they do to their prisoners. After I untied him, as soon as I got him out of the clearing, I realized they'd done him some kind of damage that meant he didn't remember killing Iarlath. He doesn't remember anything since that night he saw us talking in the kitchen." "He doesn't remember the whipping, what happened with Jules and Emma--?" "He doesn't remember it happening, or that I left him over it," Mark said grimly. "He said he knew I would come for him. As if we were still--what we were." "What were you?" Cristina realized she'd never asked. "Did you exchange promises? Did you have a word for it, like norno?" "Boyfriend?" Mark echoed. "No, nothing like that. But it was something and then it was nothing. Because I was angry." He looked at Cristina wretchedly. "But how can I be angry at someone who doesn't even remember what he did?" "Your feelings are your feelings. Kieran did do those things. He did them even if he does not remember them." Cristina frowned. "Do I sound harsh? I don't mean to. But I sat with Emma, after. I helped bandage her whip cuts." "Now you've helped bandage Kieran." Mark took a deep breath. "I'm sorry, Cristina. This must seem-- I can't even imagine what you're thinking. Having to sit here with me, with him 55 "You mean because of--" Cristina blushed. Because of the way we kissed at the revel ? She searched inside her heart, looking for jealousy, for bitterness, for anger at Mark. There was nothing. Not even the fury she'd felt at Diego at the appearance of Zara. How far away that seemed now. How distant and how unimportant. Zara was welcome to Diego; she could have him. "I'm not angry," she said. "And you shouldn't be worrying about what I'm feeling, anyway. We should be concentrating on the fact that Kieran is safe, that we can return." "I can't stop worrying about what you're feeling," Mark said. "I can't stop thinking about you at all." Cristina felt her heart thump. "It would be a mistake to think of the Seelie Court as safe ground where we can rest. There is an old saying that the only difference between Seelie and Unseelie is that the Unseelie do evil in the open, and the Seelie hide it." Mark glanced down. Kieran was breathing softly, evenly. "And I don't know what we will do with Kieran," he said. "Send him back to the Hunt? Call for Gwyn? Kieran will not understand why I would want to be parted from him now." "Do you? Want to be parted from him now?" Mark said nothing. "I understand," she said. "I do. You have always needed Kieran so badly, you never had the chance to think about what you wanted with him before." Mark made a short noise under his breath. He took her hand and held it, still looking at Kieran. His grip was tight, but she didn't pull away. Julian sat on Fergus's massive bed. He could see nothing of Emma behind the high hedge that blocked the rock pool, but he could hear her splashing, a sound that echoed off the shining walls. The sound made his nerves crank tighter. When she was done with the pool, she'd come out, and she'd get in bed with him. He'd shared beds with Emma a hundred times. Maybe a thousand. But it had meant nothing when they were children, and later, when they weren't, he had told himself it still meant nothing, even when he was waking up in the middle of the night to watch the way strands of her hair tickled her cheek while she slept. Even when she started to leave early in the morning to run on the beach, and he'd curl up in the warmth she left against the sheets and inhale the rose-water scent of her skin. Breathe. He dug his hands into the velvet pillow he'd pulled onto his lap. Think about something else. It wasn't as if he didn't have plenty of other things to think about. Here they were in the Seelie Court, not quite prisoners and not quite guests. Faerie was just as hard to escape as it was to enter, and yet they had no plan for how to leave. But he was exhausted; this was the first time he'd been alone in a bedroom with Emma since she'd ended things, and for this rare instant, his heart was doing the thinking, not his brain. "Jules?" she called. He remembered the brief days when she had called him Julian, the way the sound of the word in her mouth had made his heart shatter with pleasure. "Nene left me a dress, and it's..." She sighed. "Well, I guess you'd better see." She came out from behind the hedge that hid the pool, her hair down, wearing the dress. Faerie clothes were usually either very ornate or very simple. This dress was simple. Thin straps crisscrossed her shoulders; it was made of a silky white material that clung to her wet body like a second skin, outlining the curves of her waist and hips. Julian felt his mouth go dry. Why had Nene left her a dress? Why couldn't Emma be coming to bed in filthy gear? Why did the universe hate him? "It's white," she said, frowning. For death and mourning, the color's white. White was funerals for Shadowhunters: There was white gear for state funerals, and white silk was placed over the eyes of dead Shadowhunters when their bodies were burned. "White doesn't mean anything to faeries," he said. "To them, it's the color of flowers and natural things." "I know, it's just..." She sighed and began to pad barefoot up the stairs to the dais where the bed was centered. She stopped to examine the enormous mattress, shaking her head in wonderment. "Okay maybe I didn't immediately warm to Fergus when we met," she said. Her face was glowing from the heat of the water, her cheeks pink. "But he would run an awesome bed-and-breakfast, you have to admit. He'd probably slip a mint tenderly under your pillow every night." The gown fell away slightly as she climbed onto the bed, and Julian realized to his horror that it was slit up the side almost to her hip. Her long legs flashed against the material as she settled herself onto the bedspread. The universe didn't just hate him, it was trying to kill him. "Give me some more pillows," Emma demanded, and snatched several of them from beside Julian before he could move. He kept firm hold of the one on his lap and looked at Emma levelly. "No stealing the covers," he said. "I would never." She pushed the pillows behind her, making a pile she could lean against. Her damp hair adhered to her neck and shoulders, long locks of pale wet gold. Her eyes were red-rimmed, as if she'd been crying. Emma rarely cried. He realized her chatter since she'd come into the bedroom was false cheer, something he ought to have known--he, who knew Emma better than anyone. "Em," he said, unable to help himself, or the gentleness in his voice. "Are you all right? What happened at the Unseelie Court--" "I just feel so stupid," she said, the bravado draining from her voice. Under the artifice was Emma, his Emma, with all her force and intelligence and bravery. Emma, sounding shattered. "I know faeries play tricks. I know they lie without lying. And yet the phouka said to me--he said if I came into Faerie, I would see the face of someone I had loved and lost." "Very Fair Folk," said Julian. "You saw his face, your father's face, but it wasn't him. It was an illusion." "It was like I couldn't process it," she said. "My whole mind was clouded. All I could think was that I had my father back." "Your mind probably was clouded," said Julian. "There are all sorts of subtle enchantments that can blur your thoughts here. And it happened so quickly. I didn't suspect it was an illusion either. I've never heard of one so strong." She didn't say anything. She was leaning back on her hands, her body outlined by the white gown. He felt a flash of almost-pain as if there were a key embedded under his flesh, tightening his skin every time it was turned. Memories attacked his mind ruthlessly--what it was like to slide his hands over her body, the way her teeth felt against his lower lip. The arch of her body fitting into the arch of his: a double crescent, an unraveled infinity sign. He'd always thought desire was meant to be a pleasurable feeling. He'd never thought it could cut like this, like razors under his skin. He'd thought before that night on the beach with Emma that he wanted her more than anyone had ever wanted. He'd thought the wanting might kill him. But now he knew imagination was a pale thing. That even when it bled from him in the form of paint on canvas, it couldn't capture the richness of her skin on his, the sweet-hot taste of her mouth. Wanting wouldn't kill him, he thought, but knowing what he was missing might. He dug his fingernails into his palms, hard. Unfortunately, he'd bitten them down too far to do much damage. "Seeing that thing turn out not to be my father--it made me realize how much of my life was an illusion," Emma said. "I spent so much time looking for revenge, but finding it didn't make me happy. Cameron didn't make me happy. I thought all these things would make me happy, but it was all an illusion." She turned toward him, her eyes wide and impossibly dark. "You're one of the only real things in my life, Julian." He could feel his heart beating through his body. Every other emotion--his jealousy of Mark, the pain of separation from Emma, his worry for the children, his fear of what the Seelie Court held for them--faded. Emma was looking at him and her cheeks were flushed and her lips were parted and if she leaned toward him, if she wanted him at all, he would give up and break down and apart. Even if it meant betraying his brother, he would do it. He would pull her toward him and bury himself in her, in her hair and her skin and her body. It would be a thing he would remember later with agony that felt like white-hot knives. It would be a further reminder of everything he could never really have. And he would hate himself for hurting Mark. But none of that would stop him. He knew how far his willpower went, and he had reached its limit. Already his body was shaking, his breath quickening. He had only to reach out-- "I want to be parahatai again," she said. "The way we were before." The words exploded like a blow inside his head. She didn't want him; she wanted to be parabatai, and that was it. He'd been sitting there thinking of what he wanted and how much pain he could take, but it didn't matter if she didn't want him. How had he been so stupid? He spoke evenly. "We'll always be parabatai, Emma. It's for life." "It's been weird ever since we--ever since I started dating Mark," she said, holding his gaze with her own. "But it's not because of Mark. It's because of us. What we did." "We'll be fine," he said. "There's no rule book for this, no guidance. But we don't want to hurt each other, so we won't." "There've been parabatai in the past who started hating each other. Think of Lucian Graymark and Valentine Morgenstern." "That won't happen to us. We chose each other when we were children. We chose each other again when we were fourteen. I chose you, and you chose me. That's what the parabatai ceremony is, really, isn't it? It's a way of sealing that promise. The one that says that I will always choose you." She leaned against his arm, just the lightest touch of her shoulder against his, but it lit up his body like fireworks over the Santa Monica Pier. "Jules?" He nodded, not trusting himself to speak. "I will always choose you, too," she said, and, laying her head on his shoulder, shut her eyes. Cristina woke out of an uneasy sleep with a start. The room was dim; she was curled on the foot of the bed, her legs drawn up under her. Kieran was sleeping a drugged sleep propped against pillows, and Mark was on the floor, tangled in blankets. Two hours, Nene had said. She had to check on Kieran every two hours. She looked again at Mark, decided she couldn't wake him, sighed, and rose to a sitting position, edging up the bed toward the faerie prince. Many people looked calm in their sleep, but not Kieran. He was breathing hard, eyes darting back and forth behind his eyelids. His hands moved restlessly over the bedcovers. Still, he did not wake when she leaned forward to push up the back of his shirt with awkward fingers. His skin was fever-hot. He was achingly lovely so close, though: His long cheekbones matched his long eyes, their thick lashes feathering down, his hair a deep blue-black. She quickly changed out the poultice; the old one was half-soaked with blood. As she leaned forward to pull his shirt back down, a hand clamped around her wrist like a vise. Black and silver eyes gazed up at her. His lips moved; they were chapped and dry. "Water?" he whispered. Somehow, one-handedly, she managed to pour water from a pitcher on the nightstand into a pewter cup and give it to him. He drank it without letting go of her. "Maybe you do not remember me," she said. "I am Cristina." He put the cup down and stared at her. "I know who you are," he said, after a moment. "I thought--but no. We are in the Seelie Court." "Yes," she said. "Mark is asleep," she added, in case he was worried. But his mind seemed far away. "I thought I would die this night," he said. "I was prepared for it. I was ready." "Things do not always happen when we think they will," Cristina said. It didn't seem that convincing a remark to her, but Kieran appeared comforted. Exhaustion was sweeping over his face, like a curtain sliding across a window. His grip tightened on her. "Stay with me," he said. Jolted by surprise, she would have replied--perhaps even refused--but she did not get the chance. He was already asleep. Julian lay awake. He wanted to sleep; exhaustion felt as if it had soaked into his bones. But the room was full of dim light and Emma was maddeningly close to him. He could feel the heat from her body as she slept. She had pushed away part of the bedspread that covered her, and he could see her bare shoulder where the dress she wore had slipped down, and the shape of the parabatai rune on her arm. He thought of the storm clouds outside the Institute, the way she'd kissed him on the Institute steps before Gwyn had come. No, best to be truthful with himself. Before she'd pulled away and said his brother's name. That had been what ended it. Perhaps it was just too easy to fall back into inappropriate emotion when they were already so close. Part of him wanted her to forget him and be happy. Part of him wanted her to remember the way he remembered, as if the memory of what they had been like together were a living part of his blood. He ran his hands restlessly through his hair. The more he tried to bury such thoughts, the more they bubbled up, like water in the rock pool. He wanted to reach down and draw Emma toward him, capture her mouth with his--kiss the real Emma and erase the memory of the leanansidhe --but he would have settled for curling her close against his side, holding her through the night and feeling her body expand and contract as she breathed. He would have settled for sleeping through the night with only their smallest fingers touching. "Julian," said a soft voice. "Awaken, son of thorns." He sat up straight. Standing at the foot of the bed was a woman. Not Nene or Cristina: a woman he'd never seen before in person, though she was familiar from pictures. She was thin to the point of gauntness, but still beautiful, with full lips and glass-blue eyes. Red hair rippled to her waist. Her dress looked as if it had been made for her in a time before she had been so starved, but it was still lovely: deep blue and white, patterned with a delicate tracery of feathers, it wrapped her body in a downed softness. Her hands were long and white and pale, her mouth red, her ears slightly pointed. On her head was a golden circlet--a crown, of intricate faerie-work. "Julian Blackthorn," said the Queen of the Seelie Court. "Wake now and come with me, for I have something to show you." <|title|>Chapter 14: Through Darkened Glass <|startofchapter|>The Queen was silent as she walked, and Julian, barefoot, hurried to keep up with her. She moved purposefully down the long corridors of the Court. It was hard to wrap one's mind around the geography of Faerie, with its ever-changing terrain, the way huge spaces fitted inside smaller ones. It was as if someone had taken the philosopher's question of how many angels could fit on the head of a pin and turned it into a landscape. They passed other members of the gentry as they went. Here in the Seelie Court, there was less dark glamour, less viscera and bone and blood. Green livery echoed the color of plants and trees and grass. Everywhere there was gold: gold doublets on the men, long gold dresses on the women, as if they were channeling the sunshine that couldn't reach them below the earth. They turned at last from the corridor into a massive circular room. It was bare of any furniture, and the walls were smooth stone, curving up toward a crystal set into the peak of the roof. Directly below the crystal was a great stone plinth, with a golden bowl resting on top of it. "This is my scrying glass," said the Queen. "One of the treasures of the fey. Would you look into it?" Julian hung back. He didn't have Cristina's expertise, but he did know what a scrying glass was. It allowed you to gaze into a reflective surface, usually a mirror or pool of water, and see what was happening somewhere else in the world. He itched to use it to check on his family, but he would take no gifts from a faerie unless he had to. "No, thank you, my lady," he said. He saw anger flash in her eyes. It surprised him. He would have thought her better at controlling her emotions. The anger was gone in a moment, though, and she smiled at him. "A Blackthorn is about to put their own life in grave danger," she said. "Is that not a good enough reason for you to look in the glass? Would you be ignorant of harm coming to your family, your blood?" Her voice was almost a croon. "From what I know of you, Julian, son of thorns, that is not in your nature." Julian clenched his hands. A Blackthorn putting themselves in danger? Could it be Ty, throwing himself into a mystery, or Livvy, being willful and reckless? Dm? Tavvy? "You are not easily tempted," she said, and now her voice had grown softer, more seductive. Her eyes gleamed. She liked this, he thought. The chase, the game. "How unusual in one so young." Julian thought with an almost despairing amusement of his near breakdown just now around Emma. But that was a weakness. Everyone had them. Years of denying himself anything and everything he wanted for the sake of his family had forged his will into something that surprised even him sometimes. "I can't reach through and change what happens, can I?" he said. "Wouldn't it just be torture for me to watch?" The Queen's lips curved. "I cannot tell you," she said. "I do not know what will happen myself. But if you do not look, you will never know either. And it is not my experience of humans or Nephilim that they can bear not knowing." She glanced down into the water. "Ah," she said. "He arrives at the convergence." Julian was beside the plinth before he could stop himself, gazing down into the water. What he saw shocked him. The water was like sheer glass, like the screen of a television onto which a scene was projected with an almost frightening clarity. Julian was looking at night in the Santa Monica Mountains, a sight familiar enough to send a dart of homesickness through him. The moon rose over the ruins of the convergence. Boulders lay tumbled around a plain of dry grass that stretched to a sheer drop toward the ocean, blue-black in the distance. Wandering among the boulders was Arthur. Julian couldn't remember the last time he had seen his uncle out of the Institute. Arthur had put on a rough jacket and boots, and in his hand was a witchlight, dimly glowing. He had never looked quite so much like a Shadowhunter, not even in the Hall of Accords. "Malcolm!" Arthur called out. "Malcolm, I demand you come to me! Malcolm Fade! I am here, with Blackthorn blood!" "But Malcolm's dead," Julian murmured, staring at the bowl. "He died." "It is a weakness of your kind, to regard death as so final," said the Queen with glee, "especially when it comes to warlocks." Fear tore through Julian like an arrow. He had been sure when they'd left the Institute that they were leaving his family safe. But if Malcolm was there--still hunting for Blackthorn blood--though, if Arthur was offering it, Malcolm must still not have acquired it--but then, Arthur could hardly be trusted-- "Hush," said the Queen, as if she could hear the clamor of his thoughts. "Watch." "Malcolm!" Arthur cried, his voice echoing off the mountains. "I am here. Though you are early." The voice belonged to a shadow--a twisted, misshapen shadow. Julian swallowed hard as Malcolm stepped out into the moonlight and what had been done to him, or what he had done to himself, was clearly revealed. The water in the bowl blurred. Julian almost reached for the image before checking himself and jerking his hand back. "Where are they?" he said, in a harsh voice. "What are they doing?" "Patience. There is a place they must go. Malcolm will take your uncle there." The Seelie Queen gloated. She thought she had Julian in the palm of her hand now, he thought, and hated her. She dipped her long fingers into the water, and Julian saw a brief swirl of images-- the doors of the New York Institute, Jace and Clary asleep in a green field, Jem and Tessa in a dark, shadowy place--and then the images resolved again. Arthur and Malcolm were inside a church, an old-fashioned one with stained-glass windows and carved pew-ends. Something covered in a black cloth lay on the altar. Something that moved ever so slightly, restlessly, like an animal waking from sleep. Malcolm stood watching Arthur, with a smile playing on his ruined face. He looked like something dragged up from some watery Hell dimension. Cracks and runnels in his skin leaked seawater. His eyes were milky and opaque; half his white hair was gone, and his bald skin was patchy and scabbed. He wore a white suit, and the raw fissures in his skin disappeared incongruously under expensive collar and cuffs. "For any blood ritual, willing blood is better than unwilling," said Arthur. He stood in his usual slumped posture, hands in the pockets of his jeans. "I'll give you mine willingly if you'll swear to leave my family alone." Malcolm licked his lips; his tongue was bluish. "That's all you want? That promise?" Arthur nodded. "You don't want the Black Volume?" Malcolm said in a taunting voice, tapping the book tucked into the waistband of his trousers. "You don't want assurance I'll never harm a single Nephilim?" "Your revenge only matters to me inasmuch as my family remains unharmed," said Arthur, and relief weakened Julian's knees. "The Blackthorn blood I give you should slake your thirst for it, warlock." Malcolm smiled. His teeth were twisted and sharp, like a shark's. "Now, if I make this agreement, am I taking advantage of you, given that you are a madman?" he mused aloud. "Has your shaky mind mistaken the situation? Are you confused? Bewildered? Do you know who I am?" Arthur winced, and Julian felt a pang of sympathy for his uncle, and a flash of hate for Malcolm. Kill him, he thought. Tell me you brought a seraph blade, Uncle, and run him through. "Your uncle will not be armed," said the Queen. "Fade would have seen to that." She was watching with an almost avaricious delight. "The mad Nephilim and the mad warlock," she said. "It is like a storybook." "You are Malcolm Fade, betrayer and murderer," said Arthur. "Quite an ungrateful thing to say to someone who's been providing you with your cures all these years," Malcolm murmured. "Cures? More like temporary lies. You did what you had to do to continue to deceive Julian," said Arthur, and Julian started to hear his own name. "You gave him medicine for me because it made him trust you. My family loved you. More than they ever did me. You twisted a knife in their hearts." "Oh," Malcolm murmured. "If only." "I would rather be mad my way than yours," said Arthur. "You had so much. Love once, and power, and immortal life, and you have thrown it away as if it were trash by the side of the road." He glanced toward the twitching thing on the altar. "I wonder if she will still love you, the way you are now." Malcolm's face contorted. "Enough," he said, and a quick look of triumph passed over Arthur's tired, battered features. He had outwitted Malcolm, in his own way. "I agree to your promise. Come here." Arthur stepped forward. Malcolm seized him and began to propel him toward the altar. Arthur's witchlight was gone, but candles burned in brackets fastened to the walls, casting a flickering, yellowish light. Malcolm held Arthur with one hand, bending him over the altar; with the other he drew the dark covering away from the altar. Annabel's body was revealed. "Oh," breathed the Queen. "She was lovely, once." She was not now. Annabel was a skeleton, though not the clean white down-to-the-bones type one usually saw in art and pictures. Her skin was leathery and dried, and pocked with holes where worms had crawled in and out. Nausea rose in Julian's stomach. She was covered with white winding-sheets, but her legs were visible, and her arms: There were places the skin had peeled away, and moss grew on the bones and dried tendons. Brittle dark hair spilled from her skull. Her jaw worked as she saw Malcolm, and a moan issued from her destroyed throat. She seemed to be shaking her head. "Don't worry, darling," said Malcolm. "I've brought you what you need." "No!" Julian cried, but it was as he had feared: He could not halt the events unfolding before him. Malcolm snatched up the blade from beside Annabel and sliced open Arthur's throat. Blood fountained over Annabel, over her body and the stone she lay on. Arthur groped at his neck, and Julian gagged, clutching the sides of the bowl with his fingers. Annabel's winding-sheets had turned crimson. Arthur's hands dropped slowly to his sides. He was upright now only because Malcolm was holding him. Blood soaked Annabel's brittle hair and dried skin. It turned the front of Malcolm's white suit to a sheet of scarlet. "Uncle Arthur," Julian whispered. He tasted salt on his lips. For a moment he was terrified that he was crying, and in front of the Queen--but to his relief he had only bitten his lip. He swallowed the metal of his own blood as Arthur went limp in Malcolm's grasp, and Malcolm shoved his body impatiently away. He crumpled to the ground beside the altar and lay still. "Annabel," Malcolm breathed. She had begun to stir. Her limbs moved first, her legs and arms stretching, her hands reaching for nothing. For a moment Julian thought there was something wrong with the water in the bowl, an odd reflection, before he realized that it was actually Annabel herself. A white glow was creeping over her--no, it was skin, rising to cover bare bones and stripped tendons. Her corpse seemed to swell up and out as flesh filled out the shape of her, as if a smooth, sleek glove had been drawn over her skeleton. Gray and white turned to pink: Her bare feet and her calves looked human now. There were even clear half-moons of nails at the tips of her toes. The skin crawled up her body, slipping under the winding-sheets, rising to cover her chest and collarbones, spreading down her arms. Her hands starfished out, each finger splayed as she tested the air. Her neck arched back as black-brown hair exploded from her skull. Breasts rose under the sheets, her hollow cheeks filled, her eyes snapped open. They were Blackthorn eyes, shimmering blue-green as the sea. Annabel sat up, clutching the rags of her bloody winding-sheets to her. Under them she had the body of a young woman. Thick hair cascaded around a pale oval face; her lips were full and red; her eyes shimmered in wonder as she stared at Malcolm. And Malcolm was transformed. Whatever the vicious damage done to him, it seemed to fade away, and for a moment Julian saw him as he must have been when he was a young man in love. There was a wondering sweetness about him; he seemed frozen in place, his face shining in adoration as Annabel slid down from the altar. She landed on the stone floor beside Arthur's crumpled body. "Annabel," Malcolm said. "My Annabel. I have waited so long for you, done so much to bring you back to me." He took a stumbling step toward her. "My love. My angel. Look at me." But Annabel was looking down at Arthur. Slowly, she bent down and picked up the knife that had fallen by his body. When she straightened up, her gaze fixed on Malcolm, tears streaked her face. Her lips formed a soundless word--Julian craned forward, but it was too faint to hear. The surface of the scrying glass had begun to roil and tremble, like the surface of the sea before a storm. Malcolm looked stricken. "Do not weep," he said. "My darling, my Annabel." He reached for her. Annabel stepped toward him, her face lifting to his. He bent down as if to kiss her just as she swept her arm up, driving the knife she held into his body. Malcolm stared at her in disbelief. Then he cried out. It was a cry of more than pain--a howl of utter, despairing betrayal and heartbreak. A howl that seemed to rip through the universe, tearing apart the stars. He staggered back, but Annabel pursued him, a wraith of blood and terror in her white- and-scarlet grave clothes. She slashed at him again, opening his chest, and he fell to the ground. Even then he didn't raise a hand to fend her off as she moved to stand over him. Blood bubbled from the corner of his lips when he spoke. "Annabel," he breathed. "Oh, my love, my love--" She stabbed down viciously with the blade, driving it into his heart. Malcolm's body jerked. His head fell back, his eyes rolling to whites. Expressionless, Annabel bent over him and snatched the Black Volume from his belt. Without another glance at Malcolm, she turned and strode from the church, disappearing from the view of the scrying glass. "Where did she go?" Julian said. He barely recognized his own voice. "Follow her, use the glass--" "The scrying glass cannot find its way through so much dark magic," said the Queen. Her face was shining as if she'd just seen something wonderful. Julian flinched away from her--he couldn't help it. He wanted nothing more than to stagger off to a corner of the room and be sick. But the Queen would see that as weakness. He found his way to a wall and leaned against it. The Queen stood with one hand on the edge of the golden bowl, smiling at him. "Did you see how Fade never raised a hand to defend himself?" she said. "That is love, son of thorns. We welcome its crudest blows and when we bleed from them, we whisper our thanks." Julian braced himself against the wall. "Why did you show me that?" "I would bargain with you," she said. "And there are things I would not have you be ignorant of when we do." Julian tried to steady his breathing, forcing himself deeper into his own head, his own worst memories. He was in the Hall of Accords, he was twelve years old and he had just killed his father. He was in the Institute, and he had just found out that Malcolm Fade had kidnapped Tavvy. He was in the desert, and Emma was telling him that she loved Mark; Mark, and not him. "What kind of bargain?" he said, and his voice was as steady as a rock. She shook her head. Her red hair rayed out around her gaunt and hollowed face. "I would have all of your group there when the bargain is made, Shadowhunter." "I will not bargain with you," said Julian. "The Cold Peace--" She laughed. "You have shattered the Cold Peace a thousand times, child. Do not pretend that I know nothing of you or your family. Despite the Cold Peace, despite all I have lost, I am still the Queen of the Seelie Court." Julian couldn't help but wonder what despite all I have lost meant--what had she lost, exactly? Did she only mean the strain of the Cold Peace, the shame of losing the Dark War? "Besides," she said, "you don't know what I am offering yet. And neither do your friends. I think they might be quite interested, especially your lovely parabatai." "You have something for Emma?" he demanded. "Then why did you bring me here alone?" "There was something I wished to say to you. Something that you might not wish her to know that you knew." A tiny smile played across her lips. She took another step toward him. He was close enough to see the detail of the feathers on her dress, the flecks of blood that showed they had been torn by the roots from the bird. "The curse of the parabatai. I know how to break it." Julian felt as if he could not catch his breath. It was what the phouka had said to him at the Gate: In Faerie, you will find one who knows how the parabatai bond might be broken. He had carried that knowledge in his heart since they had arrived here. He had wondered who it would be. But it was the Queen--of course it was the Queen. Someone he absolutely should not trust. "The curse?" he said, keeping his voice mild and a little puzzled, as if he had no idea why she'd called it that. Something indefinable flashed in her eyes. "The parabatai bond, I should say. But it is a curse to you, is it not?" She caught his wrist, turning his hand over. The crescents he'd dug into his palms with his bitten nails were faint but visible. He thought of the scrying glass. Of her watching him with Emma in Fergus's room. Of course she had. She'd known when Emma fell asleep. When he was vulnerable. She knew he loved Emma. It might be something he could conceal from his family and friends, but to the Queen of the Seelie Court, accustomed to seeking out weakness and vulnerability and cruelly attuned to unpleasant truths, it would be as clear as a beacon. "As I said," she told him, smiling, "we welcome the wounds of love, do we not?" A wave of rage went through him, but his curiosity was stronger. He drew his hand from hers. "Tell me," he said. "Tell me what you know." Faerie knights in green and gold and red came to fetch Emma and bring her to the throne room. She was a little bewildered at Julian's absence, though reassured when she met Mark and Cristina in the hall, similarly escorted, and Mark told her in a low voice that he'd heard one of the guards say that Julian was already waiting for them in the throne room. Emma cursed her own exhaustion. How could she not have noticed him leave? She'd forced herself to sleep, unable to bear another second of being so physically close to Jules without being able to even hug him. And he'd been so calm, so totally calm; he'd looked at her with distant friendliness--kindness, even, when he reassured her their friendship was intact--and it hurt like hell and all she wanted was for exhaustion to wipe it all away. She reached to touch Cortana, strapped across her back. She carried the rest of her and Julian's things in her pack. She felt silly wearing a weapon over a filmy dress, but she hadn't been about to change in front of the Queen's Guard. They'd offered to carry the sword for her, but she'd refused. No one touched Cortana but her. Cristina was nearly twitching with excitement. "The throne room of the Seelie Queen," she whispered. "I have read about it but never thought to actually see it. The look of it is meant to change with the moods of the Queen, as she changes." Emma remembered Clary telling her stories of the Court, of a room of ice and snow where the Queen wore gold and silver, of a curtain of fluttering butterflies. But it was not quite like that when they arrived. Just as Mark had said, Julian was already in the throne room. It was a bare oval place, filled with grayish smoke. Smoke drifted across the floor and crackled along the ceiling, where it was forked with small darts of black lightning. There were no windows, but the gray smoke formed patterns against the walls--a field of dead flowers, a crashing wave, the skeleton of a winged creature. Julian was sitting on the steps that led up to the great stone block where the Queen's throne stood. He wore a piecemeal mix of gear and ordinary clothes, and over his shirt was thrown a jacket he could only have found here in Faerie. It shimmered with bright thread and bits of brocade, the sleeves turned back to expose his forearms. His sea-glass bracelet glittered on his wrist. He looked up when they came in. Even against the colorless background, his blue-green eyes shone. "Before you say anything, I have something to tell you," he said. Only half of Emma's mind was on his words as he began to speak; the other was on how strangely at ease he seemed. He looked calm, and when Julian was calm was always when he was at his most frightening. But he spoke on, and she began to realize what he was saying. Waves of shock went through her. Malcolm: dead, alive, and dead again? Arthur, murdered? Annabel risen from the grave? The Black Volume gone? "But Malcolm was dead," she said, numbly. "I killed him. I saw his body float away. He was dead." "The Queen cautioned me against thinking death was final," said Julian. "Especially in the case of warlocks." "But Annabel is alive," said Mark. "What does she want? Why did she take the Black Volume?" "All good questions, Miach," said a voice from across the room. They all turned in surprise, save Julian. She came out of the gray shadows wrapped in more gray: a long gray gown made of moth wings and ashes, dipped low in front so that it was easy to see the jutting bones of her clavicle. Her face was pinched, triangular, dominated by burning blue eyes. Her red hair was bound back tightly in a silver net. The Queen. There was a glitter in her eye: malice or madness, it would be hard to be sure. "Who's Miach?" Emma asked. The Queen indicated Mark with the sweep of her hand. "Him," she said. "The nephew of my handmaiden Nene." Mark looked stunned. "Nene called Helen 'Alessa,'" said Emma. "So--Alessa and Miach are their fey names?" "Not their full names, which would give power. No. But much more harmonious than Mark and Helen, don't you agree?" The Queen moved toward Mark, one hand holding up her skirt. She reached to touch his face. He didn't move. He seemed frozen. Fear of the faerie gentry, and the monarchs in particular, had been bred into him for years. It was Julian's eyes that narrowed as the Queen put a hand against Mark's cheek, her fingers stroking down his skin. "Beautiful boy," she said. "You were wasted on the Wild Hunt. You could have served here in my Court." "They kidnapped me," Mark said. "You didn't." Even the Queen seemed a bit nonplussed. "Miach--" "My name is Mark." He said it without any hostility or resistance. It was a simple fact. Emma saw the spark in Julian's eyes: pride in his brother, as the Queen dropped her hand. She walked back toward her throne, and Julian rose and came down the steps, joining the others below her as she took her seat. The Queen smiled down at them, and the shadows moved around her as if commanded: curling into wisps and shapes like flowers. "So now Julian has told you all there is to know," she said. "Now we can bargain." Emma didn't like the way the Queen said Jules's name: the possessive, almost languid Julian. She also wondered where the Queen had been while Julian had told them what happened. Not out of earshot, of that she was sure. Somewhere close, where she could overhear him, could gauge their reactions. "You have brought us all here, my lady, though we do not know why," said Julian. It was clear from his expression that he didn't know what the Queen planned to ask of them. But it was also clear that he had not made up his mind to refuse her. "What do you want from us?" "I want you to find Annabel Blackthorn for me," she said, "and retrieve the Black Volume." They all looked at each other; whatever they had expected, that had not been it. "You just want the Black Volume?" said Emma. "Not Annabel?" "Just the book," said the Queen. "Annabel does not matter, save that she has the book. Having been brought back so long after her death, she is likely quite mad." "Well, that does make looking for her so much more fun," said Julian. "Why can't you send your Court to search the mundane world for her yourself?" "The Cold Peace makes that difficult," the Queen said dryly. "I or my folk will be seized on sight. You, on the other hand, are the darlings of the Council." "I wouldn't say 'darlings,'" Emma said. "That might be overstating things." "So tell us, what does the Queen of Faerie want with the Black Volume of the Dead?" said Mark. "It is a warlock's toy." "Yet dangerous in the wrong hands, even when those hands are faerie hands," said the Queen. "The Unseelie King grows in power since the Cold Peace. He has blighted the Lands of Unseelie with evil and filled the rivers with blood. You have seen yourself that no works of the Angel can survive in his land." "True," said Emma. "But what do you care if he's made the Unseelie Lands off-limits to Shadowhunters ?" The Queen looked at her with a smile that didn't reach her eyes. "I do not," she said. "But the King has taken one of my people. A member of my Court, very dear to me. He holds that person captive in his land. I want them back." Her voice was cold. "How will the book help you with that?" Emma asked. "The Black Volume is more than necromancy," said the Queen. "It contains spells that will allow me to retrieve the captive from the Unseelie Court." Cristina shook her head. "My lady," she said. She sounded very sweet and firm and not at all anxious. "While we are sympathetic to your loss, that is a great deal of danger and work for us, just to assist you. I think you would have to offer something quite special to gain our help." The Queen looked amused. "You are very decided, for one so young." Rings sparkled on her fingers as she gestured. "But our interests are aligned, you see. You do not want the Black Volume in the King's hands, and neither do I. It will be safer here in my Court than it will ever be out in the world--the King will be looking for it, too, and only in the heart of Seelie can it be protected from him." "But how do we know you won't also use it to work against Shadowhunters?" said Emma, uneasily. "It wasn't such a long time ago that Seelie soldiers attacked Alicante." "Times change and so do alliances," said the Queen. "The King is now a greater threat to me and mine than the Nephilim. And I will prove my loyalty." She leaned her head back, and her crown shimmered. "I offer the end of the Cold Peace," she said, "and the return of your sister, Alessa, to you." "That is beyond your power," said Mark. But he had not been able to control his reaction to his sister's name; his eyes were overly bright. So were Julian's. Alessa. Helen. "It is not," said the Queen. "Bring me the book, and I will offer my Lands and arms to the Council that we might defeat the King together." "And if they say no?" "They will not." The Queen sounded supremely confident. "They will understand that only by allying themselves with us will they be able to defeat the King, and that to make such an alliance means they must first end the Cold Peace. It is my understanding your sister was punished with the Nephilim punishment of exile because she is part faerie. It is in the Inquisitor's power to overturn such a sentence of exile. With the end of the Cold Peace, your sister will be free." The Queen couldn't lie, Emma knew. Still, she felt that somehow they were being tricked. Looking around, she could tell from the uneasy expression of the others that she wasn't the only one with that thought. And yet... "You wish to seize the Unseelie Lands?" said Julian. "And you wish the Clave to help you doit?" She waved a lazy hand. "What use have I for the Unseelie Lands? I am not driven by conquest. Another shall be placed on the throne to replace the Shadow Lord, one more friendly to the concerns of Nephilim. That should interest your kind." "Have you someone in mind?" said Julian. And now the Queen smiled, really smiled, and one could forget how thin and wasted she looked. Her beauty was glorious when she smiled. "I do." She turned toward the shadows behind her. "Bring him in," she said. One of the shadows moved and detached itself. It was Lergus, Emma saw, as he slipped through an arched doorway and returned a moment later. Emma didn't think anyone was surprised to see who he had with him, blinking and startled and sullen-looking as ever. "Kieran?" said Mark, in amazement. "Kieran, King of the Unseelie Court?" Kieran managed to look frightened and insulted all at once. He had been put into new clothes, linen shirt and breeches and a fawn-colored jacket, though he was still very pale and the bandages wrapping his torso were visible through his shirt. "No," he said. "Absolutely not." The Queen began to laugh. "Not Kieran," she said. "His brother. Adaon." "Adaon will not want that," Kieran said. Fergus was holding the prince firmly by the arm; Kieran seemed to be pretending it wasn't happening, as a way to retain his dignity. "He is loyal to the King." "Then he doesn't sound very friendly to Nephilim," said Emma. "He hates the Cold Peace," said the Queen. "All know it; all know as well that he is loyal to the Unseelie King and accepts his decisions. But only as long as the King lives. If the Unseelie Court is defeated by an alliance of Shadowhunters and Seelie folk, it will be easy to place our choice on the throne there." "You make it sound so simple," Julian said. "If you do not plan on putting Kieran on the throne, why drag him in here?" "I have another use for him," said the Queen. "I require an envoy. One whose identity they know." She turned to Kieran. "You will be my messenger to the Clave. You will swear loyalty to one of these Shadowhunters, here. Because of that, and because you are the Shadow King's son, when you speak to the Council, they will know you are speaking from me, and that they will not be tricked again as they were with the liar Meliorn." "Kieran must agree to this plan," said Mark. "It must be his choice." "Well, it is his choice, certainly," said the Queen. "He can agree, or he can most likely be murdered by his father. The King does not like it when condemned captives escape him." Kieran muttered something under his breath and said, "I will swear loyalty to Mark. I will do as he bids me do, and follow the Nephilim for his sake. And I shall argue with Adaon for your cause, though it is his choice in the end." Something flickered in Julian's eyes. "No," he said. "You will not do this for Mark." Mark looked at his brother, startled; Kieran's expression tensed. "Why not Mark?" "Love complicates things," said Julian. "An oath should be free of entanglements." Kieran looked as if he might explode. His hair had gone completely black. With an angry look at Julian, he strode toward the Shadowhunters--and knelt in front of Cristina. Everyone looked surprised, none more than Cristina. Kieran tossed his dark hair back and looked up at her, a challenge in his eyes. "I swear fealty to you, Lady of Roses." "Kieran Kingmaker," said Mark, looking at Kieran and Cristina with an absolutely unreadable look in his eyes. Emma couldn't blame him. He must be constantly waiting for Kieran to remember what he had forgotten. She knew he would be dreading the pain the memories would bring them both. "I am not doing this because of Adaon or the Cold Peace," said Kieran. "I am doing it because I want my father dead." "Reassuring," muttered Julian, as Kieran rose to his feet. "It is settled, then," said the Queen, looking satisfied. "But so that you understand: You may promise my assistance and my goodwill to the Council. But I will not make war on the Shadow Throne until I hold the Black Volume." "What if he makes war on you?" Julian said. "He will make war on you first," said the Queen. "That much I know." "What if we don't find it?" said Emma. "The book, I mean." The Queen sliced her hand lazily through the air. "Then the Clave will still have my goodwill," she said. "But I will not add my folk to their army until I have the Black Volume." Emma looked at Julian, who shrugged, as if to say he hadn't expected the Queen to say anything else. "There is one last thing," said Julian. "Helen. I don't want to wait for the Cold Peace to be over to get her back." The Queen looked briefly annoyed. "There are things I cannot do, little Nephilim," she snapped, and it was the first thing she'd said that Emma really believed. "You can," he said. "Swear that you will insist to the Clave that Helen and Aline be your ambassadors. Once Kieran has finished his duty and given your message to the Council, his role is ended. Someone else will have to go back and forth from Faerie for you. Let it be Helen and her wife. They will have to bring them back from Wrangel Island." The Queen hesitated a moment, and then inclined her head. "You understand, they have no reason to do as I say unless they are awaiting aid from me and mine," she said. "So when you have the Black Volume, yes, you may make that a condition of my assistance. Kieran, I authorize you to make such a demand, when the time comes." "I will make it," said Kieran, and looked at Mark. Emma could almost read the message in his eyes. Though not for you. "Lovely," said the Queen. "You could be heroes. The heroes who ended the Cold Peace." Cristina stiffened. Emma remembered the other girl saying to her, It has always been my hope that one day I might be part of brokering a better treaty than the Cold Peace. Something more fair to Downworlders and those Shadowhunters who might love them. Cristina's dream. Mark and Julian's sister. Safety for the Blackthorns when Helen and Aline returned. The Queen had offered them all their desperate hopes, their secret wishes. Emma hated to be afraid, but at that moment, she was afraid of the Queen. "Is it finally settled, fussing children?" asked the Queen, her eyes glowing. "Are we agreed?" "You know we are." Julian almost flung the words. "We'll start looking, though we have no idea where to begin." "People go to the places that mean something to them." The Queen cocked her head to the side. "Annabel was a Blackthorn. Learn about her past. Know her soul. You have access to the Blackthorn papers, to histories no one else can touch." She rose to her feet. "Some of my folk visited them once when they were young and happy. Fade had a house in Cornwall. Perhaps it still stands. There could be something there." She began to descend the steps. "And now it is time to speed your journey. You should return to the mundane world before it is too late." She had reached the foot of the steps. She turned, magnificent in her finery, her imperiousness. "Come in!" she called. "We have been awaiting you." Two figures appeared in the doorway of the room, flanked on either side by knights in the Queen's livery. One Emma recognized as Nene. There was a look on her face, one of respect and even a little fear, as she came in. She was escorting beside her the formidable figure of Gwyn ap Nudd. Gwyn wore a formal doublet of dark velvet, against which his massive shoulders strained. Gwyn turned to Mark. His eyes, blue and black, fixed on him with a look of pride. "You saved Kieran," he said. "I should not have doubted you. You did everything I could have asked of you, and more. And now, for one last time, you will ride with me and the Wild Hunt. I shall take you to your family." The five of them followed the Queen, Nene, and Gwyn down a series of tangled corridors until one ended in a sloping tunnel down which blew fresh, cool air. It opened into a green space: There was no sign of trees, only grass studded with flowers, and above them the night sky whirling with multicolored clouds. Emma wondered if it was still the same night that they'd arrived at the Seelie Court, or if a whole day had passed underground. There was no way of knowing. Time in Faerie moved like a dance whose steps she didn't know. Five horses stood in the clearing. Emma recognized one as Windspear, Kieran's mount, who he had ridden into battle with Malcolm. He whinnied when he caught sight of Kieran, and kicked at the sky. "This is what the phouka promised me," Mark said in a low voice. He stood behind Emma, his eyes fixed on Gwyn and the horses. "That if I came to Faerie, I would ride with the Wild Hunt again." Emma reached out and squeezed his hand. At least for Mark, the phouka's promise had come true without a bitter sting in its tail. She hoped the same for Julian and Cristina. Cristina was approaching a red roan, which skittishly kicked at the dirt. She murmured softly to the horse until it calmed, and swung herself up onto its back, reaching to stroke the horse's neck. Julian pulled himself onto a black mare whose eyes were an eerie green. He looked unfazed. Cristina's eyes were glowing with delight. She met Emma's gaze and grinned as if she could barely contain herself. Emma wondered how long Cristina must have dreamed of riding with a faerie host. She hung back, waiting to hear Gwyn call her name. Why were there only five horses, not six? She got her answer when Mark swung himself up onto Windspear and reached down to pull Kieran up after him. The elf-bolt around Mark's throat gleamed in the multicolored starlight. Nene came up to Windspear then, and reached for Mark's hands, ignoring Kieran. Emma couldn't hear what she was whispering to him, but there was deep pain on her face; Mark's fingers clung to hers for a moment before he released them. Nene turned and went back into the hill. Silent, Kieran settled himself into place behind Mark, but he didn't touch the other boy. Mark half-turned in his seat. "Are you worried?" he asked Kieran. Kieran shook his head. "No," he said. "Because I am with you." Mark's face tightened. "Yes," he said. "You are." Beside Emma, the Queen laughed softly. "So many lies in just three words," she said. "And he did not even say 'I love you.'" A dart of anger went through Emma. "You would know lies," she said. "In fact, if you ask me, the biggest lie the Fair Folk have ever told is that they don't tell them." The Queen drew herself up. She seemed to be looking down at Emma from a great height. The stars wheeled behind her, blue and green, purple and red. "Why are you angry, girl? I have offered you a fair bargain. Everything you might desire. I have given you fair hosting. Even the clothes on your back are Faerie clothes." "I don't trust you," Emma said flatly. "We bargained with you because we had no choice. But you have manipulated us every step of the way--even the dress I'm wearing is a manipulation." The Queen arched an eyebrow. "Besides," Emma said, "you allied yourself with Sebastian Morgenstern. You helped him wage the Dark War. Because of the war, Malcolm got the Black Volume and my parents died. Why shouldn't I blame you?" The Queen's eyes raked Emma, and now Emma could see in them what the Queen had been at pains to hide before: her anger, and her viciousness. "Is that why you have set yourself as the protector of the Blackthorns? Because you could not save your parents, you will save them, your makeshift family?" Emma looked at the Queen for a long moment before she spoke. "You bet your ass it is," she said. Without another glance at the ruler of the Seelie Court, Emma stalked off toward the horses of the Hunt. Julian had never much liked horses, though he'd learned to ride them, as most Shadowhunters did. In Idris, where cars didn't work, they were still the main form of transportation. He'd learned on a crabby pony that kept blowing out its sides and darting under low-hanging branches, trying to knock him off. The horse Gwyn had given him had a dark look in its ghastly green eyes that didn't bode much better. Julian had braced himself for a lurching plunge upward, but when Gwyn gave the order, the horse simply glided up into the air like a toy lifted on a string. Julian gasped out loud with the shock of it. He found his hands plunging into the horse's mane, gripping hard, as the others shot up into the air around him--Cristina, Gwyn, Emma, Mark and Kieran. For a moment they hovered, shadows under the moonlight. Then the horses shot forward. The sky blurred above them, the stars turning to streaks of shimmering, multicolored paint. Julian realized that he was grinning--truly grinning, the way he rarely had since he was a child. He couldn't help it. Buried in everyone's soul, he thought as they spun forward through the night, must be the yearning desire to fly. And not the way mundanes did, trapped inside a metal tube. Like this, exploding up through clouds as soft as down, the wind caressing your skin. He glanced over at Emma. She was leaning down over her horse's mane, long legs curved around its sides, her brilliant hair flying like a banner. Behind her rode Cristina, who had her hands in the air and was shrieking with happiness. "Emma!" she shouted. "Emma, look, no hands!" Emma glanced back and laughed aloud. Mark, who rode Windspear with an air of familiarity, Kieran clinging to his belt with one hand, was not as amused. "Use your hands!" he yelled. "Cristina! It's not a roller coaster!" "Nephilim are insane!" shouted Kieran, pushing his wildly blowing hair out of his face. Cristina just laughed, and Emma looked at her with a wide smile, her eyes glowing like the stars overhead, which had turned to the silver-white stars of the mundane world. Shadows loomed up in front of them, white and black and blue. The cliffs of Dover, Julian thought, and felt an ache inside that it might be over so quickly. He turned his head and looked at his brother. Mark sat astride Windspear as if he'd been born on a horse's back. The wind tore his pale hair, revealing his sharply pointed ears. He was smiling too, a calm and secret smile, the smile of someone doing what they loved. Far below them the world spun by, a patchwork of silver-black fields, shadowy hills, and luminous, winding rivers. It was beautiful, but Julian could not take his eyes off his brother. So this is the Wild Hunt, he thought. This freedom, this expanse, this ferocity of joy. For the first time, he understood how and why Mark's choice to stay with his family might not have been an easy one. For the first time he thought in wonder of how much his brother must love him after all, to have given up the sky for his sake. <|title|>Chapter 15: Friends Long Given <|startofchapter|>Kit had never thought he'd set foot in one Shadowhunter Institute. Now he had eaten and slept in two. If this kept up, it was going to become a habit. The London Institute was exactly the way he would have imagined it, if he'd ever been asked to imagine it, which he admittedly hadn't. Housed in a massive old stone church, it lacked the glossy modernity of its Los Angeles counterpart. It looked as if it hadn't been renovated for eighty years--the rooms were painted in Edwardian pastels, which had faded over the decades into soft and muddied colors. The hot water was irregular, the beds were lumpy, and dust limned the surfaces of most of the furniture. It sounded, from bits and snatches Kit had overheard, as if the London Institute had once had many more people in it. It had been attacked by Sebastian Morgenstern during the Dark War, and most of the former inhabitants had never returned. The head of the Institute looked nearly as ancient as the building. Her name was Evelyn Highsmith. Kit got the sense that the Highsmiths were a big deal in Shadowhunter society, though not as big a deal as the Herondales. Evelyn was a tall, imperious, white-haired woman in her eighties who wore long i940s-style dresses, carried a silver-headed walking stick, and sometimes talked to people who weren't there. Only one other person seemed to live in the Institute: Evelyn's maid, Bridget, who was just as ancient as her mistress. She had bright dyed-red hair and a thousand fine wrinkles. She was always popping up in unexpected places, which was inconvenient for Kit, who was once again on the lookout for anything he might steal. It wasn't a quest that was going well--most of what appeared valuable was furniture, and he couldn't imagine how he was supposed to creep away from the Institute carrying a sideboard. The weapons were carefully locked away, he didn't know how to sell candlesticks on the street, and though there were valuable first editions of books in the enormous library, most of them had been scribbled in by some idiot named Will H. The dining room door opened and Diana came in. She was favoring one arm: Kit had found out that some Shadowhunter injuries, especially those that involved demon poison or ichor, healed slowly despite runes. Livvy perked up at the sight of her tutor. The family had gathered for dinner, which was served at a long table in a massive Victorian dining room. Angels had once been painted on the ceiling, but they had long ago been nearly completely covered by dust and the stains of old burns. "Did you hear anything from Alec and Magnus?" Diana shook her head, taking the seat opposite Livvy. Livvy wore a blue dress that looked like it had been stolen from the set of a BBC period piece. Though they'd fled the L.A. Institute with none of their belongings, it turned out there were years' worth of clothes stored in London, though none of them looked as if they'd been purchased after 1940. Evelyn, Kit, and the Blackthorn family sat around the table in an odd assortment of clothes: Ty and Kit in trousers and long-sleeved shirts, Tavvy in a striped cotton shirt and shorts, and Drusilla in a black velvet gown that had delighted her with its Gothic appeal. Diana had rejected all the garments and simply hand washed her own jeans and shirt. "What about the Clave?" said Ty. "Have you talked to the Clave?" "Are they ever useful?" Kit muttered under his breath. He didn't think anyone had heard him, but someone must have, because Evelyn burst out laughing. "Oh, Jessamine," she said to no one. "Come now, that isn't in good taste at all." The Blackthorns all raised their eyebrows at each other. No one commented, though, because Bridget had appeared from the kitchen, carrying steaming plates of meat and vegetables, both of which had been boiled to the point of tastelessness. "I just don't see why we can't go home," Dru said glumly. "If the Centurions defeated all the sea demons, like they said..." "It doesn't meant Malcolm won't come back," said Diana. "And it's Blackthorn blood he wants. You're staying within these walls, and that's final." Kit had passed out during the horrible thing they called a Portal journey--the terrible whirl through absolutely icy nothingness--so he'd missed the scene that must have occurred when they'd appeared in the London Institute--minus Arthur--and Diana had explained they were there to stay. Diana had contacted the Clave to tell them about Malcolm's threats--but Zara had been there first. Apparently she'd assured the Council that the Centurions had it all under control, that they were more than a match for Malcolm and his army, and the Clave had been only too happy to take her word for it. And as if Zara's assurance had in fact effected a miracle, Malcolm didn't turn up again, and no demons visited the Western Seaboard. Two days had passed, and there had been no news of disaster. "I hate Zara and Manuel being in the Institute without us there to watch them," said Livvy, throwing her fork down. "The longer they're there, the better claim they have for the Cohort taking it over." "Ridiculous," said Evelyn. "Arthur runs the Institute. Don't be paranoid, girl." She pronounced it gel. Livvy flinched. Though everyone, even Dru and Tavvy, had finally been brought up to speed on the situation--including Arthur's illness and the facts about where Julian and the others really were--it had been decided it was better for Evelyn not to know. She wasn't an ally; there was no reason she'd side with them, though she seemed patently uninterested in Council politics. In fact, most of the time she didn't seem to be listening to them at all. "According to Zara, Arthur's been locked in his office with the door shut since we left," said Diana. "I would be too, if I had to put up with Zara," said Dru. "I still don't see why Arthur didn't come with you," sniffed Evelyn. "He used to live in this Institute. You'd think he wouldn't mind paying a visit." "Look on the bright side, Livvy," Diana said. "When Julian and the others return from-- from where they are--they're most likely to go straight to Los Angeles. Would you want them to find an empty Institute?" Livvy poked at her food and said nothing. She looked pale and drawn, purple shadows under her eyes. Kit had gone down the corridor the night after they'd arrived in London, wondering if she wanted to see him, but he'd heard her crying through her door when he put his hand on the knob. He'd turned around and left, a strange, pinching feeling in his chest. No one crying like that wanted anyone to come near them, especially not someone like him. He got the same pinching feeling when he looked across the table at Ty and remembered how the other boy had healed his hand. How cool Ty's skin had been against his. Ty was tense in his own way--the move to the London Institute had constituted a major disruption in his daily routine and it was clearly bothering him. He spent a lot of time in the training room, which was almost identical in layout to its Los Angeles counterpart. Sometimes when he was especially stressed, Livvy would take his hands in hers and rub them matter-of-factly. The pressure seemed to ground him. Still, at the moment Ty was tense and distracted, as if he'd folded in on himself somehow. "We could go to Baker Street," Kit said, without even knowing he was going to say it. "We are in London." Ty looked up at that, his gray eyes aglow. He had shoved his food away: Livvy had told Kit that Ty took a long time to warm up to new foods and new flavors. For the moment, he was almost solely eating potatoes. "To 221B Baker Street?" "When everything with Malcolm is cleared up," Diana interrupted. "No Blackthorns out of the Institute until then, and no Herondales, either. I didn't like the way Malcolm glared at you, Kit." She stood up. "I'll be in the parlor. I need to send a fire-message." As the door closed behind her, Tavvy--who was staring at the air next to his chair in a way Kit found frankly alarming--giggled. They all turned to look in surprise. The youngest Blackthorn hadn't been laughing much lately. He supposed he didn't blame the kid. Julian was all Tavvy had in the way of a father. Kit knew what missing your father was like, and he wasn't seven years old. "Jessie," Evelyn scolded, and for a moment Kit actually looked around, as if the person she was addressing was in the room with them. "Leave the child alone. He doesn't even know you." She glanced around the table. "Everyone thinks they're good with children. Few know when they are not." She took a bite of carrot. "I am not," she said, around the food. "I have never been able to stand children." Kit rolled his eyes. Tavvy looked at Evelyn as if he was considering throwing a plate at her. "You might as well take Tavvy to bed, Dru," said Livvy hastily. "I think we're all done with dinner here." "Sure, why not? It's not like I didn't find clothes for him this morning or put him to bed last night. I might as well be a servant," Dru snapped, then snatched Tavvy out of his chair and stalked out of the room, dragging her younger brother behind her. Livvy put her head into her hands. Ty looked over at her and said, "You don't have to take care of everyone, you know." Livvy sniffled and looked sideways at her twin. "It's just--without Jules here, I'm the oldest. By a few minutes, anyway." "Diana's the oldest," said Ty. Nobody mentioned Evelyn, who had placed a pair of spectacles on her nose and was reading a newspaper. "But she's got so much more to do than look after us--I mean, look after the little things," said Livvy. "I never really thought about it before, all the stuff Julian does for us, but it's so much. He always holds it together and takes care of us and I don't even get how--" There was a sound like an explosion overhead. Ty's face drained. It was clear he was hearing a noise he'd heard before. "Livvy," Ty said. "The Accords Hall--" The noise sounded less like an explosion now, and more like thunder, a rushing thunder that was taking over the sky. A sound like clouds being ripped apart as if cloth were tearing. Dru burst into the room, Tavvy just behind her. "It's them," she said. "You won't believe it, but you have to come, quickly. I saw them flying--I went up to the roof--" "Who?" Livvy was on her feet; they all were, except Evelyn, who was still reading the paper. "Who's on the roof, Dru?" Dru swept Tavvy up into her arms. "Everyone," she said, her eyes shining. The roof of the Institute was shingle, stretching out wide and flat to a waist-high wrought- iron railing. The finials of the railings were tipped with iron lilies. In the distance, Kit could see the glimmering dome of St. Paul's, familiar from a thousand movies and TV shows. The clouds were heavy, iron-colored, surrounding the top of the Institute like clouds around a mountain. Kit could barely see down to the streets below. The air was acrid with summer thunder. They had all spilled up onto the roof, everyone but Evelyn and Bridget. Diana was here, her arm carefully cradled. Ty's gray eyes were fixed on the sky. "There," Dru said, pointing. "Do you see?" As Kit stared, the glamour peeled away. Suddenly it was as if a painting or a movie had come to life. Only movies didn't give you this, this visceral tangle of wonder and fear. Movies didn't give you the smell of magic in the air, crackling like lightning, or the shadows cast by a host of impossibly soaring creatures against the sky above it. They didn't give you starlight on a girl's blond hair as she slid shrieking in excitement and happiness from the back of a flying horse and landed on a roof in London. They didn't give you the look on the Blackthorns' faces as they saw their brothers and friends coming back to them. Livvy leaped at Julian, hurling her arms around his neck. Mark flung himself from his horse and half-tumbled down to find himself being hugged tightly by Dru and Tavvy. Ty came more quietly, but with the same incandescent happiness on his face. He waited for Livvy to be done nearly strangling her brother and then stepped in to take Julian's hands. And Julian, who Kit had always thought of as an almost frightening model of control and distance, grabbed his brother and yanked him close, his hands twisting in the back of Ty's shirt. His eyes were shut, and Kit had to look away from the expression on his face. He had never had anyone but his father, and he was sure beyond any words that his father had never loved him like that. Mark came up to his brothers then, and Ty turned to look at him. Kit heard him say: "I wasn't sure you would come back." Mark laid his hand on his brother's shoulder, and spoke gruffly. "I'll always come back to you, Tiberius. I am sorry if I ever led you to believe anything else." There were two other arrivals as well among the Blackthorns, who Kit didn't recognize: a gorgeously scowling boy with blue-black hair that waved around his angular face, and a wide-shouldered, massive man wearing an alarming helmet with carved antlers protruding from either side. Both of them sat astride their horses silently, without dismounting. A faerie escort, perhaps, to keep the others safe? But how had the Blackthorns and Emma managed to secure a favor like that? Then again, if anyone could manage to secure such a thing, it would be Julian Blackthorn. As Kit's father used to say about various criminals, Julian was the kind of person who could descend into Hell and come out with the devil himself owing him a favor. Diana was hugging Emma and then Cristina, tears shining on her face. Feeling awkwardly out of place at the reunion, Kit made his way to the edge of the railing. The clouds had cleared away, and he could see Millennium Bridge from here, lit up in rainbow colors. A train rattled over another bridge, casting its reflection into the water. "Who are you?" said a voice at his elbow. Kit started and turned around. It was one of the two faeries he had noticed earlier, the scowling one. His dark hair, up close, looked less black than like a mixture of deep greens and blues. He brushed a bit of it away from his face, frowning; he had a full, slightly uneven mouth, but far more interesting were his eyes. Like Mark's, they were two different colors. One was the silver of a polished shield; the other was a black so dark his pupil was barely visible. "Kit," said Kit. The boy with the ocean hair nodded. "I'm Kieran," he said. "Kieran Hunter." Hunter wasn't a real sort of faerie name, Kit knew. Faeries didn't generally give their true names, as names held power; Hunter just denoted what he was, the way nixies called themselves Waterbom. Kieran was of the Wild Hunt. "Huh," said Kit, thinking of the Cold Peace. "Are you a prisoner?" "No," said the faerie. "I'm Mark's lover." Oh, Kit thought. The person he went into Faerie to save. He tried to stifle a look of amusement at the way faeries talked. Intellectually, he knew the word "lover" was part of traditional speech, but he couldn't help it: He was from Los Angeles, and as far as he was concerned, Kieran had just said, Hello, I have sex with Mark Blackthorn. What about you? "I thought Mark was dating Emma," Kit said. Kieran looked confused. A few of the curls of his hair seemed to darken, or perhaps it was a trick of the light. "I think you must be mistaken," he said. Kit raised an eyebrow. How close was this guy actually to Mark, after all? Maybe they'd just had a meaningless fling. Though why Mark would then have dragged half his family to Faerie to save him was a mystery. Before he could say anything, Kieran turned his head, his attention diverted. "That must be the lovely Diana," he said, gesturing toward the Blackthorns' tutor. "Gwyn was most enraptured with her." "Gwyn's the big guy? Antler helmet?" said Kit. Kieran nodded, watching as Gwyn dismounted his horse to speak with Diana, who looked quite tiny against his bulk, though she was a tall woman. "Providence has brought us together again," Gwyn said. "I don't believe in providence," said Diana. She looked awkward, a little alarmed. She was holding her injured arm close against her. "Or an interventionist Heaven." '"There are more things in heaven and earth,"' said Gwyn, '"than are dreamt of in your philosophy.'" Kit snorted. Diana looked flabbergasted. "Are you quoting Shakespeare ?" she said. "I would have thought at least it would have been A Midsummer Night's Dream." "Faeries can't stand A Midsummer Night's Dream," muttered Kieran. "Gets everything wrong." Gwyn's lips twitched at the corners. "Speaking of dreams," he said. "You have been in mine, and often." Diana looked stunned. The Blackthorns had quieted their loud reunion and were watching her and Gwyn with unabashed curiosity. Julian was even smiling a little; he was holding Tavvy, who had his arms hooked around his brother's neck like a clinging koala. "I would that you would meet me, formally, that I might court you," said Gwyn. His large hands moved aimlessly at his sides, and Kit realized with a shock that he was nervous--this big, muscled man, the leader of the Wild Hunt, nervous. "We could together slay a frost giant, or devour a deer." "I don't want to do either of those things," said Diana after a moment. Gwyn looked crestfallen. "But I will go out with you," she said, blushing. "Preferably to a nice restaurant. Bring flowers, and not the helmet." The Blackthorns burst into giggling applause. Kit leaned against the wall with Kieran, who was shaking his head in bemusement. "And thus was the proud leader of the Hunt felled by love," he said. "I hope there will be a ballad about it someday." Kit watched Gwyn, who was ignoring the applause as he readied his horses to leave. "You don't look like the other Blackthorns," said Kieran after a moment. "Your eyes are blue, but not like the ocean's blue. More of an ordinary sky." Kit felt obscurely insulted. "I'm not a Blackthorn," he said. "I'm a Herondale. Christopher Herondale." He waited. The name Herondale seemed to produce an explosive reaction in most denizens of the supernatural world. The boy with the ocean hair, though, didn't bat an eye. "Then what are you doing here, if you are not family?" he asked. Kit shrugged. "I don't know. I don't belong, that's for sure." Kieran smiled a sideways faerie smile. "That makes two of us." They eventually gathered in the parlor, the warmest room in the house. Evelyn was already there, muttering by the fire burning in the grate; even though it was late summer, London had a damp, chill edge to it. Bridget brought sandwiches--tuna and sweet corn, chicken and bacon--and the newcomers tucked into them as if they were wildly starving. Julian had to eat awkwardly with his left hand, balancing Tavvy on his lap with the other. The parlor had aged better than a lot of the other rooms in the Institute. It had cheerful flowered wallpaper, only slightly discolored, and gorgeous antique furniture someone had clearly picked out with care--a lovely rolltop desk, a delicate escritoire, plush velvet armchairs and sofas grouped around the fireplace. Even the fire screen was made of delicate wrought iron, patterned with wing-spread herons, and when the fire shone through it, the shadow of the birds was cast against the wall as if they were flying by. Kieran alone didn't seem thrilled with the sandwiches. He poked at them suspiciously and then pulled them apart, eating only the tomatoes, while Julian explained what had happened in Faerie: their journey to the Unseelie Court, the meeting with the Queen, the blight on the Unseelie Land. "There were burned places, white as ash, like the surface of the moon," Mark said, eyes dark with distress. Kit tried his best to hang on to the story, but it was like trying to ride a roller coaster with faulty brakes--phrases like "scrying glass," "Unseelie champion," and "Black Volume of the Dead" kept hurling him off track. "How much time passed for them?" he whispered finally to Ty, who was wedged in beside him and Livvy on a love seat too small for the three of them. "It sounds like a few less days than passed for us," said Ty. "Some time slippage, but not much. Cristina's necklace seems to have worked." Kit whistled under his breath. "And who's Annabel?" "She was a Blackthorn," said Ty. "She died, but Malcolm brought her back." "From the dead?" said Kit. "That's--that's necromancy." "Malcolm was a necromancer," pointed out Ty. "Shut up." Livvy elbowed Kit, who was lost in thought. Necromancy wasn't just a forbidden art at the Shadow Market, it was a forbidden topic. The punishment for raising the dead was death. If the Shadowhunters didn't catch you, other Downworlders would, and the way you died would not be pretty. Bringing back the dead, Johnny Rook had always said, warped the fabric of life, the same way making humans immortal did. Invite in death, and death would stay. Could anyone bring back the dead and have it work? Kit had asked him once. Even the most powerful magician? God, Johnny had said, after a long, long pause. God could do that. And those who raise the dead may think they are God, but soon enough they will find out the lie they have believed. "The head of the Los Angeles Institute is dead?" Evelyn exclaimed, dropping the remains of her sandwich on a likely very expensive antique table. Kit didn't really blame her for her surprise. The Blackthorns didn't act like a family in grief over the death of a beloved uncle. Rather they seemed stunned and puzzled. But then, they had behaved around Arthur almost as if they were strangers. "Is that why he wanted to stay behind in Los Angeles?" Livvy demanded, her cheeks flushed. "So he could sacrifice himself--for us?" "By the Angel." Diana had her hand against her chest. "He hadn't replied to any of my messages, but that wasn't unusual. Still, for Zara not to notice--" "Maybe she did, maybe she didn't," said Livvy. "But it's better for her plans if he's out of the way." "What plans?" said Cristina. "What do you mean, Zara's plans?" It was time for another long explanation, this time of things Kit already knew about. Evelyn had fallen asleep in front of the fireplace and was snoring. Kit wondered how much the silver top of her cane was worth. Was it real silver, or just plated? "By the Angel," said Cristina, when the explanation was done. Julian said nothing; Emma said something unprintable. Mark leaned forward, a flush on his cheeks. "Let me get this straight," he said. "Zara and her father want to run the Los Angeles Institute so they can push their anti-Downworlder agenda. The new Laws would likely apply to me and to Helen. Certainly to Magnus, Catarina--every Do wnworlder we know, no matter how loyal." "I know of their group," said Diana. "They don't believe in loyal Downworlders." "What is their group?" Emma asked. "The Cohort," said Diana. "They are a well-known faction in the Council. Like all groups who exist primarily to hate, they believe that they speak for a silent majority--that everyone despises Downworlders as they do. They believe opposition to the Cold Peace is moral cowardice, or at best, whining from those who feel inconvenienced by it." "Inconvenienced?" said Kieran. There was no expression in his voice, just the word, hanging there in the room. "They are not intelligent," said Diana. "But they are loud and vicious, and they have frightened many better people into silence. They do not number an Institute head among them, but if they did..." "This is bad," Emma said. "Before, they would have had to prove Arthur wasn't fit to run an Institute. Now he's dead. The spot's open. All they have to do is wait for the next Council meeting and put their candidate forward." "And they're in a good place for it." Diana had risen to her feet and begun to pace. "The Clave is enormously impressed with Zara Dearborn. They believe she and her Centurions beat back the sea demon threat on their own." "The demons vanished because Malcolm died--again, and this time hopefully for good," said Livvy furiously. "None of it's because of Zara. She's taking credit for what Arthur did!" "And there's nothing we can do about it," said Julian. "Not yet. They'll figure out Arthur is dead or missing soon enough--but even abandonment of his post would be cause to replace him. And we can't be seen to know how or why he died." "Because the only reason we do know is thanks to the Seelie Queen," said Emma in a low voice, eyeing the sleeping Evelyn. "Annabel is the key to our finding the Black Volume," said Julian. "We need to be the only ones looking for her right now. If the Clave finds her first, we'll never get the book to the Queen." "When we agreed with the Queen's plan, though, we didn't know about the Cohort," said Mark, looking troubled. "What if there isn't time to find the book before the Cohort makes their move?" "We'll just have to find the book faster," said Julian. "We can't face the Dearborns in an open Council. What's Zara done wrong, according to the Clave? Arthur wasn't qualified to run an Institute. Many Council members do hate Downworlders. She wants to run an Institute so she can pass an evil law. She wouldn't be the first. She's not breaking the rules. We are." Kit felt a faint shudder go up his spine. For a moment, Julian had sounded like Kit's father. The world isn't the way you want it to he. It's the way it is. "So we're just supposed to pretend we don't know what Zara's up to ?" Emma frowned. "No," said Diana. "I'm going to go to Idris. I'm going to speak to the Consul." They all looked at her, wide-eyed--all except Julian, who didn't seem surprised, and Kieran, who was still glaring at his food. "What Zara is proposing would mean Jia's daughter would be married to one of the Downworlders being registered. Jia knows what that would lead to. I know she'd meet with me. If I can reason with her--" "She let the Cold Peace pass," said Kieran. "She had no choice," said Diana. "If she'd had warning of what was coming, I'd like to think it would have turned out differently. This time, she'll have that warning. Besides--we have something to offer her now." "That's right," said Julian, gesturing at Kieran. "The end of the Cold Peace. A faerie messenger from the Queen of Seelie." Evelyn, who had been napping by the fire, bolted upright. "That is enough." She glared daggers at Kieran. "I can accept a Blackthorn into this house, even one with a questionable bloodline. I will always accept a Blackthorn. But a full-blood faerie? Listening to the business of Nephilim? I will not allow it." Kieran looked briefly startled. Then he rose to his feet. Mark began to rise too. Julian stayed exactly where he was. "But Kieran is part of our plan--" "Stuff and nonsense. Bridget!" she called, and the maid, who had clearly been lurking in the corridor, stuck her head into the room. "Please lead the princeling to one of the spare bedrooms. I will have your word, faerie, that you will not depart it until you are allowed." Kieran looked at Cristina. "What is your desire, my lady?" Kit was baffled. Why was Kieran, a prince of the gentry, taking orders from Cristina? She blushed. "You don't need to swear you won't leave the room," she said. "I trust you." "Do you?" Emma said, sounding fascinated, as Kieran gave a stiff bow and departed. Bridget's muttering could be heard by all as she led Kieran out the door. "Faeries in the Institute," she muttered. "Ghosts is one thing, warlocks is another thing, but never in all my born days--" Drusilla looked puzzled. "Why is Kieran here?" she said, as soon as he was gone. "I thought we hated him. Like, mostly hated him. I mean, he did save our lives, but he's still a jerk." There was a murmur of voices. Kit remembered something he'd overhead Livvy say to Dru a day or two ago. More pieces of the Kieran puzzle: Livvy had been angry that Mark would go to Faerie to help someone who had hurt him. Had hurt Emma and Julian. Kit didn't know exactly what had happened, but it had clearly been bad. Emma had moved to sit on the couch beside Cristina. She'd arrived wearing a pale gossamer dress that looked like something Kit would have seen in the Shadow Market. It made her look delicate and graceful, but Kit remembered the steel in her, the way she'd sliced apart the praying mantis demons in his house with all the calm of a bride cutting slices of wedding cake. Julian was quietly listening to his family talk. Even though he wasn't looking at Emma, an almost visible energy crackled between them. Kit remembered the way Emma had said this isn't Julian's kind of place to his father--one of the first things he'd heard her say, in the Market --and the way her voice had seemed to hug the syllables of his name. Parabatai were strange. So close, and yet it wasn't a marriage, yet it was more than a best friendship. There was no real analogue in the mundane world. And it drew him, the idea of it, of being connected to someone like that, the way all the dangerous and beautiful things of the Shadowhunter world drew him. Maybe Ty... Julian stood up, setting Tavvy down in an armchair. He stretched out his arms, cracking the sinews in his wrists. "The thing is, we need Kieran," he said. Evelyn snorted. "Imagine needing a faerie lord," she said. "For anything." Julian whispered something in Tavvy's ear. A moment later he was on his feet. "Miss Highsmith," he said. "My little brother is exhausted, but he says he doesn't know where his bedroom is. Can you show him?" Evelyn looked irritably from Julian to Tavvy, who smiled angelically at her, showing off his dimples. "Can't you escort the child?" "I've only just arrived," said Julian. "I don't know where the room is." He added his own smile to Tavvy's. Julian could radiate charm when he wanted to; Kit had nearly forgotten. Evelyn looked around to see if there were any volunteers to take over for her; no one moved. Finally, with a disgusted snort, she snapped her fingers at Tavvy, said, "Well, come on then, child," and stalked from the room with him in tow. Julian's smile turned crooked. Kit couldn't help the feeling that Julian had used Evelyn to get rid of Kieran, and Tavvy to get rid of Evelyn, and done it so handily no one could ever prove it. If Julian had ever wanted to turn his hand to cons and crime, Kit thought, he would have excelled at it. "We need Kieran to bargain with the Clave," said Julian, as if nothing had happened. "When we found him in Faerie, his father was about to have him killed. He escaped, but he'll never be safe as long as the Unseelie King sits on the throne." He ran his hands through his hair restlessly; Kit wondered how Julian kept it all in his head: plans, plots, concealments, truths. "And the Queen wants the King off the throne," said Emma. "She's willing to help us replace him with Kieran's brother, but Kieran had to promise to convince him." "Kieran's brother would be better than the King they have right now?" asked Dru. "He would be better," Emma confirmed. "Believe it or not." "Kieran will also testify in front of the Council," said Julian. "He will bring the Queen's message that she's willing to ally with us to defeat the King. He can confirm for the Council what the King is doing in the Unseelie Lands--" "But you could tell them that," said Kit. "If we wanted to risk the wrath of the Clave for having ventured into Faerie," Julian said. "Not to mention that while we might get out of that, there will be no forgiveness for our having entered into a bargain with the Seelie Queen." Kit had to admit Julian was right. He knew how much trouble the Blackthorns had nearly gotten in for bargaining with the faerie convoy who had returned Mark to them. The Seelie Queen was a whole other level of forbidden. It was like getting a slap on the wrist for running a red light and then coming back the next day and blowing up the whole street. "Kieran's your get-out-of-jail-free card," he said. "It's not just about us," said Emma. "If the Council will listen to him, it could end the Cold Peace. In fact, it would have to. They'll have to believe him--he can't lie--and if the Queen is willing to fight the Unseelie King with the Clave, I don't think they'll be able to turn that down." "Which means we have to keep Kieran safe," said Julian. "We also have to do what we can not to antagonize him." "Because he's doing this for Mark?" said Dru. "But Mark broke up with him," said Livvy, and then looked around, alarmed. Her ponytail brushed Kit's shoulder. "Is that something I wasn't supposed to say?" "No," Mark said. "It's the truth. But--Kieran doesn't remember. When the Unseelie Court tortured him, he lost some of his memories. He doesn't recall bringing the envoy to the Institute, or Emma and Julian being whipped, or what danger he put us all in with his haste and anger." He looked down at his intertwined hands. "And he must not be told." "But--Emma," said Livvy. "Are we supposed to pretend that she and Mark aren't... ?" Kit leaned close to Ty. Ty smelled like ink and wool. "I don't understand any of this." "Neither do I," Ty whispered back. "It's very complicated." "Mark and I," Emma, said, looking very steadily at Mark. "We broke up." Kit wondered if Mark had known that. He wasn't able to hide the look of astonishment on his face. "It just didn't work out," Emma went on. "So it's all right, whatever Mark needs to do." "They're broken up?" Livvy whispered. Ty shrugged, baffled. Livvy had gone tense and was glancing from Emma to Mark, clearly worried. "We have to let Kieran think he and Mark are still dating?" said Ty, looking bewildered. Kit felt the whole thing was beyond him as well, but then Henry VIII had beheaded several of his wives for apparently governmental reasons. The personal, the political, and the romantic were often oddly entwined. "Concealing these things from Kieran isn't ideal," said Julian, hands in his pockets. "And I hate to ask you guys to lie. Probably it's best to avoid the subject. But there's literally no other way to make sure he actually shows up in front of the Clave." Mark sat, running his fingers through his blond hair in a distracted manner. Kit could hear him saying, "I'm all right, it's fine," to Cristina. He felt a surge of odd sympathy--not for Mark, but for Kieran. Kieran, who didn't know that his boyfriend wasn't really his boyfriend, that he was sleeping in a house full of people who, however friendly they might seem, would lie to him to get something they needed. He thought of the coldness he'd seen in Julian back at the Shadow Market. Julian, who would sacrifice Kieran, and perhaps his own brother in a way, to get what he wanted. Even if it was a good thing to want. Even if it was the end of the Cold Peace. Kit looked at Julian, gazing at the parlor fire with fathomless eyes, and suspected that there was more to it. That where Julian Blackthorn was concerned, there would always be more to it. <|title|>Chapter 16: Pass the Wanderer <|startofchapter|>Mark made his way toward Kieran's room, steeling himself to lie. Uneasiness and exhaustion had driven Mark from the parlor. The others, equally tired, were scattering to their own bedrooms. Cristina had slipped away without Mark noticing-- though he had felt her absence, as a sort of pang in his chest, after she was gone. Diana had decided to leave as soon as she could for Idris, and Julian and Emma had gone to see her off. Mark had been a little shocked by Emma's announcement that the pretense of their relationship was over; he knew what he'd said to her, back in Faerie, and that she'd only done as he asked. Still he felt slightly unmoored, alone, with no idea how to look in Kieran's eyes and tell him untruths. He didn't like lying; he hadn't done it in the Hunt, and he felt uncomfortable with the rhythms of it. He wanted to talk about it with Cristina, but he couldn't imagine she'd want to hear about his complicated feelings for Kieran. Julian would be focused entirely on what was necessary and had to be done, no matter how painful. And now he could no longer talk to Emma. He hadn't realized how close their relationship, however false, had brought them in actual friendship; he wondered, now, if he would lose that, too. And as for Kieran--Mark leaned his head against the wall next to Kieran's door. The corridors were papered in dulled gold leaf, trailing vines and trellises, cool against his forehead. Kieran was the person he could talk to least. Not that banging his head on a wall was going to do any good. He straightened up and pushed the door open quietly; the room they'd set aside for Kieran was far away from the rest of the sleeping quarters, up a small flight of stairs, a room that looked as if it had likely once been used for storage. Narrow, arched windows looked out over the flat walls of other buildings. There was a massive four-poster bed in the middle of the room and an enormous wardrobe--though what they thought Kieran could possibly put in it, Mark had no idea. The coverlet had been pulled off the bed and Kieran was nowhere to be seen. Mark felt a lurch of unease. Kieran had promised Cristina he would stay, in his own way: If he had decided not to honor his pledge to Cristina, there would be trouble. Mark sighed, and closed his eyes. He felt stupid and vulnerable, standing in the middle of the room with his eyes shut, but he knew Kieran. "Kier," he said. "I can't see anything. Come out and talk to me." A moment later there were fierce hands on his sides, lifting him, tossing him back on the bed. Kieran's weight pushed Mark down into the mattress; Mark opened his eyes and saw Kieran propped over him, savage and strange in his gentry clothes. The outline of Kieran's bandages pressed against Mark's chest, but otherwise Kieran's weight was a familiar one. To his body, a welcome one. Kieran was looking down at him, silver and black eyes like the night sky. "I love you," Kieran said. "And I have made promises. But if I am to be constantly shamed and sent away, I will not answer for my actions." Mark smoothed back a lock of Kieran's hair. The strands slipped through his fingers, heavy silk. "I'll make sure they treat you with more respect. They just have to get used to you." Kieran's eyes glittered. "I have done nothing to earn their distrust." Oh, but you have, Mark thought, you have, and everyone remembers it but you. "They helped me rescue you," he said instead. "Don't be ungrateful." Kieran smiled at that. "I would rather imagine it was only you responsible." He bent down to nuzzle Mark's throat. Mark half-closed his eyes; he could feel his own lashes tickle his cheeks. He could feel the shift of the weight of Kieran on top of him. Kieran smelled like ocean, as he usually did. Mark remembered a hill in a green country, a damp cairn of stones, tumbling with Kieran to the bottom of it. Hands in his hair and on his body when he hadn't been touched in so long. He had burned and shivered. He shivered now. What was Kieran to him? What was he to Kieran? What had they ever been to each other? "Kier," Mark said. "Listen--" "Now is not the time for talking," said Kieran, and his lips were featherlight on Mark's skin, moving along the pulse of his throat, along his jaw, to capture his mouth. It was a moment that felt stretched out to forever, a moment in which Mark fell through stars that shattered all around him. Kieran's lips were soft and cool and tasted like rain, and Mark clung to him in the dark and broken place at the bottom of the sky. He tangled his fingers in Kieran's hair, curled his fingertips in, heard Kieran exhale harshly against his mouth. His body pressed harder against Mark's, and then Kieran's fingers slid against the back of Mark's neck and knotted in the chain that held his elf-bolt necklace. It was like being shaken awake. Mark rolled over, taking Kieran with him, so they were lying side by side on the bed. The movement broke the kiss, and Kieran stared at him, half- annoyed and half-dazed. "Miach," he said. His voice took the word and turned it into a beckoning caress, an invitation to faerie pleasures unimaginable. "No," said Mark. "Don't call me that." Kieran inhaled. "There is something wrong between us, is there not? Mark, please tell me what it is. I sense the distance but do not understand its cause." "You don't remember, but we had an argument. About me staying with my family. It's why I gave you my elf-bolt necklace back." Kieran looked bewildered. "But I always knew you might stay with your family. I did not want it, but I must have come to accept it. I remember waking in the Unseelie Court. I do not remember feeling any anger toward you." "It wasn't a bad fight." Mark swallowed. "But I wasn't expecting this--you, in my world. All the complications of these politics." "You don't want me here?" Kieran's face didn't change, but his hair was suddenly streaked with white where it curled against his temples. "It's not that," Mark said. "In the Wild Hunt, I thought I might die any night. Every night. I wanted everything, always, and risked anything, because no one depended on me. And then there was you, and we depended on each other, but. . ." He thought of Cristina. Her words came to him, and he couldn't help using them, though it almost felt like a betrayal. Cristina, who he had kissed with joyous abandon for those few moments near the revel, before he had realized what she thought of him ... someone she would only kiss when drunk or out of her mind... "I have always needed you, Kieran," he said. "I have needed you to live. I've always needed you so much, I never had a chance to think about whether we were good for each other or not." Kieran sat up. He was silent, though Mark saw--to his relief--that the white streaks in his hair had gone back to their more normal blue-black color. "That is honest," he said finally. "I cannot fault you there." "Kieran--" "How much time do you need?" Kieran had drawn himself up, and he was all proud prince of Faerie now. Mark thought of the times he'd seen Kieran at revels, at a distance; seen the smaller faeries scatter in front of him. Girls and boys who hung on his arms, hoping for a word or look, because the favor of even a disgraced prince was currency. And Kieran, granting neither those words nor those looks, because his words and looks were all for Mark. All for what they had between them when the Wild Hunt was looking away... "Maybe a few days," Mark said. "If you can be patient for that long." "I can be patient for a few days." "Why did you choose Cristina?" Mark said abruptly. "When you had to swear fealty to one of us. Why her? Did you do it to unsettle me?" Kieran grinned. "Not everything is, as they say, about you, Mark." He leaned back; his hair was very black against the stark white linens. "Shouldn't you be going?" "Don't you want me to stay here?" Mark said. "With you?" "While you weigh my merits as if I were a horse you were considering buying? No," Kieran said. "Go back to your own room, Mark Blackthorn. And if loneliness keeps you from your rest, do not seek me out. Surely there must be a rune for sleeplessness." There wasn't, but Mark didn't feel like it would be a good idea to say so. Kieran's eyes were glittering dangerously. Mark left, wondering if he'd made a horrible mistake. Cristina's room in the London Institute was much like the rooms she'd seen in pictures of other Institutes all over the world: plainly furnished with a heavy bed, wardrobe, dresser, and desk. A small bathroom, clean, with a shower that she'd already used. Now she lay on the lumpy mattress, the blankets pulled up to her chest, her arm aching. She wasn't sure why. She'd loved every moment of flying with the Wild Hunt; if she'd injured herself somehow, she had no memory of it. Not when she'd mounted the horse, or when they'd ridden, and surely she'd recall pain like that? And how could she have hurt herself any other way? She rolled to the side and reached to touch her witchlight, on the nightstand table. It flared to a soft glow, illuminating the room--the enormous English bed, the heavy oak furniture. Someone had scrawled the initials JB,LH into the paint by the window. She stared down at her right arm. Around her wrist was a band of paler skin, slightly reddened at the edges, like the scar left by a fiery bracelet. "You'll be all right?" Diana said. It was half declaration, half question. Diana, Julian, and Emma stood in the entryway of the London Institute. The Institute doors were open and the dark courtyard was visible; it had rained earlier, and the flagstones were washed clean. Julian could see the arch of the famous metal gate that closed off the Institute, and the words worked into it: WE ARE DUST AND SHADOWS. "We'll be fine," Julian said. "Malcolm's dead, again. No one's trying to kill us," said Emma. "It's practically a vacation." Diana hoisted her bag higher on her shoulder. Her plan was to take a taxi to Westminster Abbey, where a secret tunnel accessible only to Shadowhunters led to Idris. "I don't like leaving you." Julian was surprised. Diana had always come and gone according to her own lights. "We'll be fine," he said. "Evelyn's here, and the Clave is a phone call away." "Not a phone call you want to make," said Diana. "I sent another message to Magnus and Alec, and I'll keep in touch with them from Alicante." She paused. "If you need them, send a fire-message and they'll come." "I can handle this," Julian said. "I've handled a lot worse for a lot longer." Diana's eyes met his. "I would step in, if I could," she said. "You know that. I'd take the Institute if it was possible. Put myself up against the Dearborns." "I know," Julian said, and oddly enough, he did. Even if he didn't know what prevented Diana from putting herself forward as a candidate, he knew it was something important. "If it would make any difference," Diana said. "But I wouldn't even get through the interview. It would be futile, and then I wouldn't be able to stay with you, or help you." She sounded as if she were trying to convince herself, and Emma reached her hand out, impulsive as always. "Diana, you know we'd never let them take you away from us," she said. "Emma." Julian's voice was sharper than he'd intended. The anger he'd been shoving down since Emma had said she and Mark had broken up was rising again, and he didn't know how long he could control it. "Diana knows what she's talking about." Emma looked startled by the coldness in his tone. Diana flicked her eyes between them. "Look, I know it's incredibly stressful, being kept from your home like this, but try not to fight," she said. "You're going to have to hold everything together until I get back from Idris." "It's only a day or two," said Emma, not looking at Julian. "And nobody's fighting." "Stay in touch with us," Julian said to Diana. "Tell us what Jia says." She nodded. "I haven't been back to Idris since the Dark War. It'll be interesting." She leaned forward then, and kissed first Jules and then Emma, quickly, on the cheek. "Take care of yourselves. I mean it." She flipped the hood up on her jacket and stepped outside, swallowed up almost instantly by shadows. Emma's arm pressed briefly against Julian's as she raised her hand to wave good- bye. In the distance, Julian heard the clang of the front gate. "Jules," she said, without turning her head. "I know you said Diana refused to try to take the Institute, but do you know why... ?" "No," he said. It was a single word, but there was venom in it. "On the topic of confessions, were you planning on telling the rest of Mark's family why you dumped their brother with no warning?" Emma looked astonished. "You're angry that Mark and I broke up?" "I guess you've dumped two of their brothers, if we're really counting," he said as if she hadn't spoken. "Who's next? Ty?" He knew immediately he'd gone too far. Ty was her little brother, just as he was Julian's. Her face went very still. "Screw you, Julian Blackthorn," she said, spun on her heel, and stalked back upstairs. Neither Julian nor Emma slept well that night, though each of them thought they were the only one troubled, and the other one was probably resting just fine. "I think it's time for you to get your first real Mark," said Ty. Only the three of them--Livvy, Ty, and Kit--were left in the parlor. Everyone else had gone to bed. Kit guessed from the quality of the darkness outside that it was probably three or four in the morning, but he wasn't tired. It could be jet lag, or Portal lag, or whatever they called it; it could be the contagious relief of the others that they were all reunited again. It could be an approximate six hundred cups of tea. "I've had Marks," said Kit. "You put that iratze on me." Livvy looked mildly curious but didn't ask. She was sprawled in an armchair by the fire, her legs hooked over one side. "I meant a permanent one," said Ty. "This is the first real one we all get." He held up his long-fingered right hand, the back toward Kit, showing him the graceful eye-shaped rune that identified all Shadowhunters. "Voyance. It clarifies Sight." "I can already see the Shadow World," Kit pointed out. He took a bite out of a chocolate digestive biscuit. One of the few great foods England had to offer, in his opinion. "You probably don't see everything you could," Livvy said, then held up her hands to indicate neutrality. "But you do what you want." "It's the most painful rune to get," said Ty. "But worthwhile." "Sure," said Kit, idly picking up another biscuit--Livvy had sneaked a whole package from the pantry. "Sounds great." He looked up in surprise a moment later when Ty's shadow fell across him; Ty was standing behind him, his stele out, his eyes bright. "Your dominant hand is your right," he said, "so put that one out, toward me." Surprised, Kit choked on his cookie; Livvy sat bolt upright. "Ty," she said. "Don't; he doesn't want one. He was just kidding." "I--" Kit started, but Ty had gone the color of old ivory and stepped back, looking dismayed. His eyes darted away from Kit's. Livvy was starting to get up out of her chair. "No-- No, I do want one," Kit said. "I would like the Mark. You're right, it's time I got a real one." The moment hung suspended; Livvy was half out of her chair. Ty blinked rapidly. Then he smiled, a little, and Kit's heart resumed its normal beating. "Your right hand, then," Ty said. Kit put his hand out, and Ty was right: The Mark hurt. It felt like what he imagined getting a tattoo was like: a deep burning sting. By the time Ty was done, his eyes were watering. Kit flexed his fingers, staring at his hand. He'd have this forever, this eye on the back of his hand, this thing that Ty had put there. He could never erase it or change it. "I wonder," Ty said, sliding his stele back into his belt, "where that house of Malcolm's, in Cornwall, might be." "I can tell you exactly where it is," said the girl standing by the fireplace. "It's in Polperro." Kit stared. He was absolutely sure she hadn't been standing there a moment ago. She was blond, very young, and--translucent. He could see the wallpaper right through her. He couldn't help himself. He yelled. Bridget had led Emma to a bedroom she seemed to have picked out ahead of time, and Emma soon found out why: There were two height charts scribbled on the plaster, the kind you got by standing someone against a wall and drawing a line just above their head, with the date. One was marked Will Herondale, the other, James Carstairs. A Carstairs room. Emma hugged her elbows and imagined Jem: his kind voice, his dark eyes. She missed him. But that wasn't all; after all, Jem and Will could have done their height charts in any room. In the nightstand drawer, Emma found a cluster of old photographs, most dating from the early 1900s. Photographs of a group of four boys, at various stages of their lives. They seemed a lively bunch. Two of them--one blond, one dark-haired--were together in almost every photo, their arms slung around each other, both laughing. There was a girl with brown hair who looked a great deal like Tessa, but wasn't Tessa. And then there was Tessa, looking exactly the same, with a gorgeously handsome man in his late twenties. The famous Will Herondale, Emma guessed. And there was a girl, with dark red hair and brown skin, and a serious look. There was a golden sword in her hands. Emma recognized it instantly, even without the inscription on the blade: I am Cortana, of the same steel and temper as Joyeuse and Durendal. Cortana. Whoever the girl was in the photograph, she was a Carstairs. On the back, someone had scrawled what looked like a line from a poem. The wound is the place where the Light enters you. Emma stared at it for a long time. "There's really no need for you to yell," said the girl crossly. Her accent was very English. "I'm a ghost, that's all. You act as if you haven't seen one before." "I haven't," Kit said, nettled. Livvy was on her feet. "Kit, what's going on? Who are you talking to?" "A ghost," said Ty. "Who is it, Kit?" "My name is Jessamine," said the girl. "And just because you didn't see me before doesn't mean I wasn't trying." "Her name is Jessamine," Kit reported. "She says she's been trying to get our attention." "A ghost," said Ty, looking toward the fireplace. It was clear he couldn't see Jessamine, but also clear he had a good idea where she was standing. "They say a ghost saved the London Institute during the Dark War. Was that her?" Kit listened and repeated. "She says she did. She looks very smug about it." Jessamine glared. "She also says she knows where Malcolm lived," said Kit. "She does?" Livvy moved over to the desk, grabbing a pen and a notebook. "Will she tell us?" "Polperro," said Jessamine again. She was very pretty, with blond hair and dark eyes. Kit wondered if it was weird to think a ghost was attractive. "It's a small town in southern Cornwall. Malcolm used to talk about his house plans sometimes, when he was in the Institute." She waved a translucent hand. "He was very proud of the house--right on top of some famous caves. Dreadful he's turned out to be a villain. And poor Arthur," she added. "I used to look after him sometimes when he slept. He had the most awful nightmares about Faerie and his brother." "What's she saying?" Livvy asked, her pen poised over her paper. "Polperro," said Kit. "Southern Cornwall. He was very proud of the location. She's sorry he turned out to be an asshole." Livvy scribbled it down. "I bet she didn't say asshole." "We need to go to the library," Ty said. "Find an atlas and train schedules." "Ask her something for me," said Livvy. "Why didn't she just tell Evelyn where Malcolm's house was?" After a moment, Kit said, "She says Evelyn can't really hear her. She often just makes things up and pretends Jessamine's said them." "But she knows Jessamine's here," said Ty. "She must be a faint spirit, if none of the rest of us can see her." "Humph!" said Jessamine. "Faint spirit indeed; it's clear none of you have practice observing the undead. I have done everything to get your attention outside of smacking one of you in the head with a Ouija board." "I just saw you," said Kit. "And I've never practiced being a Shadowhunter at all." "You're a Herondale," said Jessamine. "They can see ghosts." "Herondales can usually see ghosts," said Ty, at the same time. "That's why I wanted you to get the Voyance Mark." Kit swiveled to look at him. "Why didn't you say so?" "It might not have worked," said Ty. "I didn't want you to feel bad if it didn't." "Well, it did work," said Livvy. "We should go wake up Julian and tell him." "The older boy, with the brown curly hair?" said Jessamine. "He's awake." She chuckled. "It's nice to see those lovely Blackthorn eyes again." "Julian's up," Kit said, deciding not to mention that the ghost might have crush on him. Ty joined Livvy at the door. "Are you coming, Kit?" Kit shook his head, surprising himself. If you'd asked him a few weeks ago if he'd be pleased to be left alone with a ghost, he would have said no. And he wasn't pleased, exactly, but he wasn't bothered, either. There was nothing terrifying about Jessamine. She seemed older than she looked, a little wistful, and not at all dead. She was, though. She drifted in the waft of air from the closing door, her long white fingers resting on the mantel. "You needn't stay," she said to Kit. "I'll probably disappear in a minute. Even ghosts need rest." "I had a question," Kit said. He swallowed hard; now that it had come to the moment, his throat was dry. "Have you--have you ever seen my father? He just died a little while ago." Her brown eyes filled with pity. "No," she said. "Most people don't become ghosts, Christopher. Only those with unfinished business on earth, or who have died feeling they owe someone something." "My father never thought he owed anyone anything," muttered Kit. "It's better that I haven't seen him. It means he's gone on. He's at peace." "Gone on where?" Kit raised his head. "Is he in Heaven? I mean, it seems so unlikely." "Christopher!" Jessamine sounded shocked. "Seriously," said Kit. "You didn't know him." "I don't know what comes after death," Jessamine said. "Tessa used to come and ask me too. She wanted to know where Will was. But he didn't linger--he died happy and at peace, and he went on." Her hands fluttered helplessly. "I am not like Charon. I am no ferryman. I cannot say what lies on the other side of the river." "It could be awful," said Kit, making a fist, feeling his new Mark sting. "It could be torture forever." "It could be," Jessamine said. There was wisdom in her featherlight voice. "But I don't think so." She bent her head. The firelight glinted off her pale blond hair, and then she was gone, and Kit was alone in the room. There was something in his hand, though, something that crackled when he moved. It was a folded piece of paper. He opened it, scanning the words quickly; they had been sketched in a delicate, feminine hand. If you steal any of the hooks from the library, I will know, and you'll he sorry. It was signed, with several flourishes: Jessamine Lovelace. When Livvy came into Julian's room, he was lying flat on the bed, like a dropped piece of toast. He hadn't even bothered to change his clothes or get under the covers. "Jules?" Livvy said, hovering in the doorway. He sat up, fast. He'd been trying to sort through his thoughts, but the sight of his younger sibling--in his room, this late at night--banished everything but immediate, atavistic panic. "Is everything all right? Did something happen?" Livvy nodded. "It's good news, actually. We figured out where Malcolm's house is--the one in Cornwall." "What?" Julian scrubbed his hands through his hair, rubbing at his eyes to wake himself up. "Where's Ty?" "In the library." She sat down on the corner of Julian's bed. "Turns out there's a house ghost. Jessamine. Anyway, she remembered Malcolm and knew where his house was. Ty's checking on it, but there's no reason to think she wouldn't be right. Evelyn's been talking to her for days, we just didn't think she really existed, but Kit--" "Can see ghosts. Right," said Julian. He felt more alert now. "All right. I'll go tomorrow, see what I can find out." "And we'll go to Blackthorn Hall," Livvy said. Blackthorn Hall was one of the Blackthorn family's two land properties: They had a manor in Idris, and a large home in Chiswick, on the Thames. It had once belonged to the Lightwoods, a long time ago. "See if there's any papers, anything about Annabel. Kieran can't really leave the Institute, so Mark can stay here with him and Cristina and they can look in the library." "No," said Julian. Livvy set her jaw. "Jules--" "You can go to Blackthorn Hall," he said. "You've certainly earned that much, you and Ty, and Kit, too. But Mark goes with you. Kieran can amuse himself weaving daisy chains or making up a ballad." Livvy's mouth twitched. "It seems wrong to make fun of the Fair Folk." "Kieran's fair game," said Julian. "He's annoyed us in the past." "I guess Cristina can watch him." "I was going to ask her to come to Cornwall," said Julian. "You and Cristina?" Livvy looked baffled. Julian couldn't blame her. It was true that their group fell into established patterns based on age and acquaintance. Jules and Emma, or Jules and Mark, made sense. Jules and Cristina didn't. "And Emma," Julian added, cursing silently. The thought of extended time with Emma, especially now, was--terrifying. But it would be considered bizarre if he went without her, hi sparabatai. Never mind that Emma wouldn't sit still for it. Not a chance. Bringing Cristina would help, though. Cristina would be a buffer. Having to put someone between himself and Emma made him feel sick, but the memory of the way he'd snapped at her in the entryway made him feel sicker. It had been like watching someone else talking to the person he loved the most in the world; someone else, hurting hi sparabatai on purpose. He had been able to do something with his feelings while she'd been with Mark--twist and crumple them, shove them far underneath his skin and consciousness. He had felt them there, bleeding, like a tumor slicing open his internal organs, but he hadn't been able to see them. Now they were there again, laid out before him. It was terrifying to love someone who was forbidden to you. Terrifying to feel something you could never speak of, something that was horrible to almost everyone you knew, something that could destroy your life. It was in some ways more terrifying to know that your feelings were unwanted. When he had thought Emma loved him back, he had not been completely alone in his hell. When she was with Mark, he could tell himself that it was Mark keeping them apart. Not that she would rather be with no one than be with him. "Cristina knows a great deal about the Black Volume," Julian said. He had no idea if this was true or not. Graciously, Livvy didn't pursue it. "She'll be helpful." "Blackthorn Hall, here we come," said Livvy, and slid off the bed. She looked to Julian like a little girl from an old illustration in a picture book, in her puffed-sleeve blue dress. But maybe Livvy would always look like a little girl to him. "Jules?" "Yes?" "We know," she said. "We know about Arthur, and what was wrong with him. We know you ran the Institute. We know it was you doing all of it since the Dark War." Julian felt as if the bed were tilting under him. "Livia..." "We're not angry," she said quickly. "I'm here by myself because I wanted to talk to you alone, before Ty and Dru. There was something I wanted to say to you." Julian still had his fingers in the bedspread. He suspected he was in some kind of shock. He'd thought of how this moment might go for so many years that now that it was happening, he had no idea what to say. "Why?" he managed finally. "I realized something," she said. "I want to be like you, Jules. Not this second, not right now, but someday. I want to take care of people, other Shadowhunters, people who need me. I want to run an Institute." "You'd be good at it," he said. "Livvy--I didn't tell you because I couldn't. Not because I didn't trust you. I didn't even tell Emma. Not until a few weeks ago." She only smiled at him, and came around the side of the bed to where he was sitting. She bent down, and he felt her kiss him softly on the forehead. He closed his eyes, remembering when she'd been small enough for him to lift her in his arms, when she'd followed him, holding her hands out to him: Julian, Julian, carry me. "There's nobody else I'd rather be like than you," she said. "I want you to be proud of me." He opened his eyes at that and hugged her awkwardly, one-armed, and then she pulled away and ruffled his hair. He complained, and she laughed and headed for the door, saying she was exhausted. She flipped off the light as she went out of the room, leaving him in darkness. He rolled under the blanket. Livvy knew. They knew. They knew, and they didn't hate him. It was a weight off him he had almost forgotten he'd been carrying. <|title|>Chapter 17 : Haunted <|startofchapter|>It was a perfect English day. The sky was the color of Wedgwood china, smooth and blue. The air was warm and sweet and full of possibilities. Julian stood on the front step of the Institute, trying to prevent his smallest brother from choking him to death. "Don't go," Tavvy wailed. "You were already gone. You can't go again." Evelyn Highsmith sniffed. "In my time, children were seen and not heard, and they certainly did not complain." She was standing in the arch of the door, hands folded primly over the head of her cane. She had put on an amazing outfit in order to see them off to the train station: There was a sort of riding habit involved, and possibly jodhpurs. Her hat had a bird on it, though to Ty's disappointment, the bird was definitely dead. The ancient black car that belonged to the Institute had been unearthed, and Bridget was waiting beside it with Cristina and Emma. Their backpacks were stashed in the trunk--Mark had been amused to find out that in England, they called it a boot--and they were talking excitedly. Both were in jeans and T-shirts, since they'd have to pass as mundane on the train, and Emma's hair was tied back into a braid. Still, Julian was glad Cristina was going. In the back of his mind, he clung to the idea that she would be a buffer between him and Emma. Emma hadn't betrayed any hint of being angry that morning, and the two of them had functioned well together, mapping their route to Polperro, figuring out the train schedules and raiding the storage room for clothes. They planned to get a room in a bed-and-breakfast, preferably one with a kitchen they could cook in, to minimize exposure to mundanes. They'd even purchased their train tickets from Paddington ahead of time. All the planning had been easy and simple: They were a parabatai team; they still worked, they still functioned better together than alone. But even with the most iron self-control imposed on himself, the sheer force of love and yearning when he looked at her was like being hit unexpectedly by a train, over and over. Not that he imagined being hit expectedly by a train would be much better. Best to be buffered against that, until it stopped happening. If it stopped happening. But he wouldn't let himself think that way. It had to end someday. "Jules!" Tavvy wailed. Julian gave his brother a last hug and set him down. "Why can't I come with you?" "Because," Julian explained. "You have to stay here and help Drusilla. She needs you." Tavvy looked as if he doubted that. Drusilla, wearing an overly long cotton skirt that reached her toes, rolled her eyes. "I can't believe you're going," she said to Julian. "The minute you leave, Livvy and Ty start treating me like a servant." "Servants get paid," Ty observed. "See? See what I mean?" Dru poked Julian in the chest with an index finger. "You'd better hurry back so they don't maltreat me." "I'll try." Julian met Mark's look over Dru's head; they shared a smile. Emma and Mark's good-bye had been bizarre, to say the least. Emma had given him a quick, absentminded hug before descending the stairs; Mark hadn't looked bothered until he'd noticed Julian and the others staring at him. He'd run down the steps after Emma, caught her hand, and spun her to face him. "It is better that you go," he said, "that I might forget your fair, cruel face, and heal my heart." Emma had looked stunned; Cristina, saying something in a low voice to Mark that sounded like unnecessary, had hauled Emma off toward the car. Ty and Livvy were the last to come to say good-bye to Jules; Livvy embraced him fiercely, and Ty gave him a soft, shy smile. Julian wondered where Kit was. He'd been glued to Ty's and Livvy's sides the whole time they'd been in London, but he appeared to have vanished for the family farewell. "I've got something for you," Ty said. He held out a box, which Julian took with some surprise. Ty was absolutely punctual about Christmas and birthday presents, but he rarely gave gifts spontaneously. Curious, Julian popped open the top of the box to find a set of colored pencils. He didn't know the brand, but they looked pristine and unused. "Where did you get these?" "Fleet Street," said Ty. "I went out early this morning." An ache of love pressed against the back of Julian's throat. It reminded him of when Ty was a baby, serious and quiet. He hadn't been able to go to sleep for a long time without someone holding him, and though Julian had been very small himself, he remembered holding Ty while he fell asleep, all round wrists and straight black hair and long lashes. He'd felt so much love for his brother even then it had been like an explosion in his heart. "Thanks. I've missed drawing," Julian said, and tucked the box into his duffel bag. He didn't fuss; Ty didn't like fuss, but Julian made his tone as warm as he could, and Ty beamed. Jules thought of Livvy, the night before, the way she'd kissed his forehead. Her thank-you. This was Ty's. "Be careful at Blackthorn Hall," he said. He was nervous that they were going but tried not to show it; he knew he was being unreasonable. "Go during the day. During the day," he insisted, when Livvy made a face. "And try not to get Drusilla and Tavvy into trouble. Remember, Mark is in charge." "Does he know that?" said Livvy. Julian sought Mark in the crowd on the steps. He was standing with his hands behind his back, exchanging a mistrustful look with a carved stone gnome. "Your pretense does not fool me, gnome," he muttered. "My eye will be upon you." Julian sighed. "Just do what he says." "Julian!" Emma called. She was standing beside the car, Cortana--glamoured to be invisible to mundanes--glittering just over her right shoulder. "We're going to miss the train." Julian nodded and held up two fingers. He made his way across the steps to Mark and gripped his shoulder. "You going to be okay?" Mark nodded. Julian thought about asking where Kieran was, but decided there was no point. It would probably just stress Mark out more. "Thanks for trusting me to be in charge," said Mark. "After what happened before, with the kitchen." In Los Angeles, Julian had left Mark for a night to look after their siblings. Mark had managed to destroy the kitchen, cover Tavvy in sugar, and almost give Jules a nervous breakdown. "I do trust you." Unspeaking, Julian and Mark looked at each other. Then Julian grinned. "Besides," he added, "this isn't my kitchen." Mark laughed softly. Julian headed down the stairs as Emma and Cristina piled into the car. He went around the back to toss his bag into the trunk and came to a stop. Wedged into the space beside the luggage was a small figure in a smudged white T-shirt. Tavvy looked up at him, wide-eyed. "I want to go too," he announced. Julian sighed and began to roll up his sleeves. A brother's work was never done. One of the benefits of being a Shadowhunter that was rarely talked about, Emma thought, was easy parking at places like train stations and churches. Often a place had been set aside for Shadowhunters to leave their cars, glamoured to appear to mundanes as something they would ignore--a construction site or a pile of trash bins. Bridget pulled the rattling black Austin Metro to a stop on Praed Street, mere feet from Paddington Station, and the Shadowhunters piled out to retrieve their bags while she locked up the vehicle. They'd packed fast and light, just enough for a few days. Weapons, gear, and few clothes besides the ones on their backs, though Emma had no doubt that Cristina would look elegant all the time anyway. Demurely, Cristina tucked her knife into her pocket and bent to sling her backpack over her shoulder. She winced. "Are you all right?" Emma asked, sliding into step beside her. She was enormously glad to have Cristina there between her and Jules, something to smooth the prickly and dangerous roads of their conversations. They passed into the station, which was brightly lit and modern, the walkways lined with stores like the Body Shop and Caffe Nero. She glanced ahead at Julian, but he was deep in discussion with Bridget. Julian had an amazing ability to make conversation with literally anyone. She wondered what he could possibly find to talk to Bridget about. Evelyn's odd habits? London history? "Have you gotten a chance to talk to Mark at all about, you know, the kiss?" asked Emma as they passed an Upper Crust bakery that smelled like butter and cinnamon, mixed with the smoke of the station. "Especially with the whole Kieran thing going on now." Cristina shook her head. She looked drawn and pale, as if she hadn't slept well. "Kieran and Mark have history. Like Diego and me. I can't find fault with Mark for being drawn to his history. It was the reason I was drawn to Diego, and I did that without all the pressures that are on Mark now." "I don't know how it'll play out. Mark's not much of a liar," said Emma. "I say this as someone who isn't great at it myself." Cristina gave a pained smile. "You are terrible. Watching you and Mark pretend to be in love was like watching two people who kept falling over and then hoping nobody noticed." Emma giggled. "Very flattering." "I am only saying that for the good of us all, Kieran must believe in Mark's feelings," said Cristina. "A faerie who thinks they have been scorned or spited can be very cruel." She gasped suddenly, bending almost double. Emma caught her as she sank down. In a blind panic, she dragged Cristina into a corner between two shops. She didn't dare scream; she wasn't glamoured, mundanes would hear her. But she glanced toward Julian and Bridget, still deep in conversation, and thought as hard as she could. Jules, Julian, I need you, right now, come right now, please! "Emma--" Cristina had her arms crossed, hugging her stomach as if it pained her, but it was the blood on her shirt that terrified Emma. "Cristina--sweetheart--let me see, let me see." She pulled frantically at Cristina's arms until the other girl let go. There was blood on her right hand and sleeve. Most of it seemed to be coming from her arm and to have transferred itself to her shirt. Emma breathed a little easier. A wound to the arm was less serious than one to the body. "What's going on?" It was Julian's voice. He and Bridget had reached them; Jules was white-faced. She saw the terror in his eyes and realized what had caused it: He'd thought something had happened to Emma. "I'm all right," Emma said mechanically, shocked by the look on his face. "Of course you are," said Bridget impatiently. "Let me get to the girl. Stop clinging to her, for goodness' sake." Emma detached herself and watched as Bridget knelt and peeled Cristina's sleeve back. Cristina's wrist was banded with a bracelet of blood, her skin puffy. It was as if someone was tightening an invisible wire around her arm, cutting into the flesh. "What are you two just sitting there for?" Bridget demanded. "Put a healing rune on the girl." They both reached for steles; Julian got to his first and drew a quick iratze on Cristina's skin. Emma leaned forward, holding her breath. Nothing happened. If anything, the skin around the bleeding circle seemed to swell more. A fresh gush of blood welled up, spattering Bridget's clothes. Emma wished she still had her old stele; she'd always superstitiously believed she could draw stronger runes with it. But it was in faerie hands now. Cristina didn't whimper. She was a Shadowhunter, after all. But her voice shook. "I don't think an iratze will help this." Emma shook her head. "What is it--?" "It looks like a faerie charm," said Bridget. "While you were in the Lands, did any fey seem to cast a spell on you? Were your wrists ever tied?" Cristina pushed herself up on her elbows. "That--I mean, that couldn't be it." "What happened?" Emma demanded. "At the revel, two girls tied my wrist and Mark's together with a ribbon," Cristina said reluctantly. "We sliced it off, but there may have been a stronger magic there than I guessed. It could be a sort of binding spell." "This is the first time you've been away from Mark since we were in Faerie," Julian said. "You think that's it?" Cristina looked grim. "The farther I go from him, the worse it becomes. Last night was almost the first time I'd left his side, and my arm burned and ached. And as we drove away from the Institute, the pain got worse and worse--I hoped it would go away, but it didn't." "We need to get you back to the Institute," said Emma. "We'll all go. Come on." Cristina shook her head. "You and Julian should still go to Cornwall," she said, and gestured with her uninjured hand overhead, toward the board on which the schedules for the trains were posted. The train for Penzance left in less than five minutes. "You need to. This is necessary." "We could wait a day," Emma protested. "This is faerie magic," said Cristina, letting Bridget help her to her feet. "There's no assurance it will be fixed in a day." Emma hesitated. She hated the thought of leaving Cristina. Bridget spoke in a sharp voice, surprising them all. "Go," she said. "You are parabatai, the most powerful team the Nephilim can offer. I have seen what parabatai can do. Stop hesitating." "She's right," Julian said. He shoved his stele back into his belt. "Come on, Emma." A blur followed, of Emma hugging Cristina hurriedly good-bye, Julian catching at her hand, drawing her away, of the two of them running haphazardly through the train station, nearly knocking over the ticket barriers, and flinging themselves into the empty coach of a Western Railway train just as it pulled out of the station with a loud screeching of released brakes. With every mile she and Bridget covered that brought them closer to the Institute, Cristina's pain faded. At Paddington, her arm had screamed with agonizing pain. Now it was a dull ache that seemed to push down into her bones. I have lost something, the ache seemed to whisper. There is something I am missing. In Spanish, she might have said, Me haces falta. She had noticed early on when she learned English that a direct translation of that phrase didn't really exist: English speakers said I need you, where me haces falta meant something closer to, You are lacking to me. That was what she felt now, a lack like a missing chord in a song or a missing word on a page. They pulled up in front of the Institute with a squeal of brakes. Cristina heard Bridget call her name, but she was already out of the car, cradling her wrist as she ran toward the front steps. She couldn't help herself. Her mind revolted at the thought of being controlled by something outside herself, but it was as if her body was dragging her along, pushing her toward what it needed to make itself whole. The front doors banged open. It was Mark. There was blood on his arm, too, soaking through the light blue sleeve of his sweater. Behind him was a chatter of voices, but he was only looking at Cristina. His light hair was disarrayed, his blue and gold eyes burning like banners. Cristina thought she had never seen anything so beautiful. He ran down the steps--he was barefoot--and caught at her hand, pulling her against him. The moment their bodies slammed together, Cristina felt the ache inside her vanish. "It's a binding spell," Mark whispered into her hair. "Some kind of binding spell, tying us together." "The girls at the revel--one tied our wrists together and the other laughed--" "I know." He brushed his lips across her forehead. She could feel his heart pounding. "We'll figure it out. We'll fix it." She nodded and closed her eyes, but not before she saw that several others had spilled out onto the front step and were staring at them. In the center of the group was Kieran, his elegant face pale and set, his eyes unreadable. The tickets they had bought were first class, so Emma and Julian had a compartment to themselves. The gray-brown of the city had been left behind, and they were rolling through green fields, studded with wildflowers and copses of green trees. Charcoal stone farmers' walls ran up and down the hills, dividing the land into puzzle pieces. "It looks a bit like Faerie," said Emma, leaning against the window. "You know, without the rivers of blood or the high-body-count dance parties. More scones, less death." Julian glanced up. He had his sketchbook on his knees and a black box of colored pencils on the seat next to him. "I think that's what it says on the front gate of Buckingham Palace," he said. He sounded calm, entirely neutral. The Julian who had snapped at her in the entryway of the Institute was gone. This was polite Julian, gracious Julian. Putting-up-a- front-for-strangers Julian. There was absolutely no way she could handle interacting only with that Julian for however long they were in Cornwall. "So," she said. "Are you still angry?" He looked at her for a long moment and set his sketchbook aside. "I'm sorry," he said. "What I said--that was unacceptable and cruel." Emma stood up and leaned against the window. The countryside flew by: gray, green, gray. "Why did you say it?" "I was angry." She could see his reflection in the window, looking up at her. "I was angry about Mark." "I didn't know you were that invested in our relationship." "He's my brother." Julian touched his own face as he spoke, unconsciously, as if to connect with those features--the long cheekbones and eyelashes--that were so like Mark's. "He's not --he gets hurt easily." "He's fine," she said. "I promise you." "It's more than that." His gaze was steady. "When you were together, at least I could feel like you were both with someone I cared about and could trust. You loved someone I loved too. Is that likely to happen again?" "I don't know what's likely to happen," she said. I know you have nothing to worry about. I wasn't in love with Mark. I'll never be in love with anyone again who isn't you. "Just that there are things we can and can't control." "Em," he said. "This is me we're talking about." She turned away from the window, pressed her back to the cold glass. She was looking at Julian directly, not just his reflection. And though his face betrayed no anger, his eyes at least were open and honest. It was real Julian, not pretend Julian now. "So you admit you're a control freak?" He smiled, the sweet smile that went straight to Emma's heart because it recalled for her the Julian of her childhood. It was like sun, warmth, the sea, and the beach all rolled up in one punch to the heart. "I admit nothing." "Fine," she said. She didn't have to say she forgave him and knew he forgave her; they both knew it. Instead she sat down in the seat opposite him and gestured toward his art supplies. "What are you drawing?" He picked up the sketchbook, turning it so she could see his work--a gorgeous rendition of a stone bridge they'd passed, surrounded by the drooping boughs of oak trees. "You could sketch me," said Emma. She flung herself down onto her seat, leaning her head on her hand. '"Draw me like one of your French girls.'" Julian grinned. "I hate that movie," he said. "You know I do." Emma sat up indignantly. "The first time we watched Titanic, you cried." "I had seasonal allergies," Jules said. He'd started to draw again, but his smile still lingered. This was the heart of her and Julian, Emma thought. This gentle joking, this easy amusement. It almost surprised her. But this was what they always returned to, the comfort of their childhood--like birds returning and returning in migratory patterns toward their home. "I wish we could get in touch with Jem and Tessa," Emma said. Green fields flashed by the window in a blur. A woman was pushing a refreshment cart up and down the narrow train corridor. "And Jace and Clary. Tell them about Annabel and Malcolm and everything." "The whole Clave knows about Malcolm's return. I'm sure they have their ways of finding out, too." "But only we really know about Annabel," said Emma. "I drew her," Julian said. "I thought somehow if we could look at her, it might help us find her." He turned his sketch pad. Emma suppressed a small shudder. Not because the face looking out was hideous--it wasn't. It was a young face, oval and even-featured, almost lost in a cloud of dark hair. But an air of something haunted and almost feral burned in Annabel's eyes; she clutched her hands at her throat, as if trying to wrap herself in a covering that had vanished. "Where could she be?" Emma wondered aloud. "Where would you go, if you were so sad?" "Do you think she looks sad?" "Don't you?" "I thought she seemed angry." "She did kill Malcolm," said Emma. "I don't understand why she'd do that--he brought her back. He loved her." "Maybe she didn't want to be brought back." He was still looking down at the sketch. "Maybe she was happy where she was. Strife, agony, loss--those are things the living experience." He closed the sketchbook as the train pulled into a small white station whose sign read LISKEARD. They had arrived. "Was this planned?" Kieran said. His expression was stony. "It cannot be a coincidence." Mark raised his eyebrows. Cristina was sitting on the edge of one of the beds in the infirmary, her wrist bandaged; Mark's injury was hidden by the sleeve of his sweater. There was no one else in the room. Tavvy had been upset by the sight of blood on Mark and Cristina, and Dru had taken him away to calm him down. Livvy and the other two boys had left for Blackthorn Hall while Cristina was at the train station. "What the hell is that supposed to mean?" Mark said. "You think Cristina and I planned to spray blood all over London for fun?" Cristina looked at him in surprise; he sounded more human than she'd ever heard him. "Such a binding spell," said Kieran. "You must have held your wrists out for it. You would have to have remained still while you were bound." He sounded bewildered, hurt. He looked enormously out of place in his breeches and linen shirt, now very crumpled, in the heart of the Institute. All around them were hospital-style beds, glass and copper jars of tinctures and powders, stacks of bandages and runed medical tools. "It happened at a revel," said Mark. "We couldn't expect it--we didn't expect it. And no one would want this, no one would set it up on purpose, Kieran." "A faerie would," Kieran said. "It is just the sort of thing one of us would do." "I am not a faerie," said Mark. Kieran flinched, and Cristina saw the hurt in his eyes. She felt a wave of sympathetic pain for him. It must be horrible to be so alone. Even Mark looked stricken. "I didn't mean that," he said. "I am not only a faerie." "And how glad you are," said Kieran, "howyou brag of it at every opportunity." "Please," said Cristina, "please, don't fight. We need to be on the same side in this." Kieran turned puzzled eyes on her. Then he stepped close to Mark; he put his hands on Mark's shoulders. They were nearly the same height. Mark didn't avert his gaze. "There is only one way I know that you cannot lie," Kieran said, and kissed Mark on the mouth. A pulse of pain went through Cristina's wrist. She had no idea if it was random or some reflection of the intensity of what Mark was feeling. There was no way he could reject the kiss, not without rejecting Kieran and severing the delicate chain of lies that kept the faerie prince bound here. If, indeed, Mark didn't want to kiss Kieran back. Cristina couldn't tell; he returned the kiss with a fierceness like the fierceness Cristina had seen in him the first time she'd glimpsed him with Kieran. But there was more anger in it now. He gripped Kieran's shoulders, his fingers digging in; the force of the kiss angled Kieran's head back. He sucked at Kieran's bottom lip and bit it, and Kieran gasped. They broke apart. Kieran touched his mouth; there was blood on his lip, and hot triumph in his eyes. "You did not look away," he said to Cristina. "Was it that interesting?" "It was for my benefit." Cristina felt odd and shivery and hot, but refused to show it. She sat with her hands in her lap and smiled at Kieran. "It would have seemed rude not to watch." At that Mark, who had been looking furious, laughed. "She understands you, Kier." "It was very well-done kissing," she said. "But we should talk practically now, about the spell." Kieran was still staring at Cristina. He looked at most people with disgust or fury or consideration, but when he looked at Cristina, he seemed bewildered, as if he were trying to put her together like a puzzle and couldn't. Abruptly, he spun on his heel and stalked out of the room. The door slammed behind him. Mark looked after him, shaking his head. "I don't think I've ever seen anyone aggravate him like that," he said. "Not even me." Diana had hoped to see Jia the moment she arrived in Idris, but the bureaucracy of the Clave was worse than she had recalled. There were forms to fill out, messages to be given and carried up the chain of command. It didn't help that Diana refused to state her business: For the delicate matter of Kieran and what was happening in Faerie, Diana didn't dare trust the information to anyone other than the Consul herself. Her small apartment in Alicante was above the weapons shop on Flintlock Street that had been in her family for years. She'd closed it up when she went to live in Los Angeles with the Blackthorns. Impatience jittering her nerves, she went downstairs into the store and threw open the windows, letting in light, making the dust motes dance in the bright summer air. Her sore arm still ached, though it had nearly healed. The shop was musty inside, dust on the formerly bright blades and rich leather of sheaths and ax handles. She took down a few of her favorite weapons and put them aside for the Blackthorns. The children deserved new weapons. They'd earned them. When a knock came on the door, she'd successfully managed to distract herself and was sorting sword blades by the hardness of the metal. She set down one of her favorites--a weapon of Damascus steel--and went to open the door. Smirking on the doorstep was Manuel, who Diana had last seen fighting sea demons on the front lawn of the Institute. He was out of his Centurion gear, wearing a fashionable black sweater and jeans, his hair gelled into curls. He smiled sideways at her. "Miss Wrayburn," he said. "I've been sent to bring you up to the Gard." Diana locked up the store and fell in beside Manuel as he made his way up Flintlock Street toward the northern part of Alicante. "What are you doing here, Manuel?" she asked. "I thought you'd be in Los Angeles." "I was offered a post at the Gard," he said. "I couldn't pass up the chance for advancement. There are plenty of Centurions still in Los Angeles, guarding the Institute." He looked at Diana sideways; she said nothing. "It's a pleasure to see you in Alicante," Manuel went on. "The last time we were together, I believe, you were fleeing for London." Diana gritted her teeth. "I was taking the children who were in my charge to safety," she said. "They're all fine, by the way." "I assumed I would have heard if it had been otherwise," said Manuel airily. "I'm sorry about your friend," she said. "Jon Cartwright." Manuel was silent. They had reached the gate to the path leading up to the Gard. Once it had closed only with a latch. Now Diana watched as Manuel passed his hand over it and it clicked open. The path was as rough as it had been when Diana was a child, snaked with the roots of trees. "I didn't know Jon well," said Manuel as they began the climb. "I understand his girlfriend, Marisol, is very upset." Diana said nothing. "Some people cannot manage their grief as Shadowhunters should," added Manuel. "It's a shame." "Some people do not show the empathy and tolerance a Shadowhunter should," said Diana. "That's also a shame." They had reached the upper part of the path, where Alicante spread out before them like a map, and the demon towers rose to pierce the sun. Diana remembered walking this path with her sister, when they were both children, and her sister's laughter. She missed her so much sometimes it felt as if her heart were being clutched by talons. In this place, she thought, looking out over Alicante, I was lonely. In this place I had to hide the person I knew I was. They reached the Gard. It rose up above them, a mountain of gleaming stone, sturdier than ever since its rebuilding. A path lined with witchlights led to the front gate. "Was that a jab at Zara?" Manuel looked amused. "She's very popular, you know. Especially since she killed Malcolm. Something the Los Angeles Institute couldn't manage." Shocked out of her reverie, Diana could only stare at him. "Zara didn't kill Malcolm," she said. "That's a lie." "Is it?" Manuel said. "I'd like to see you prove that." He grinned his beaming grin and walked away, leaving Diana to stare after him, squinting her eyes in the sunlight. "Let me see your wrist," Cristina said to Mark. They were sitting side by side on the infirmary bed. His shoulder was warm against hers. He drew his sweater up and held his arm out silently. Cristina folded back her bandage and put her wrist against his. They looked in silence at their identical wounds. "I know nothing about this kind of magic," said Mark. "And we cannot go to the Clave or the Silent Brothers. They can't know we were in Faerie." "I'm sorry about Kieran," she said. "That he's angry." Mark shook his head. "Don't be--it's my fault." He took a deep breath. "I am sorry I was angry with you, in Faerie, after the revel. People are complicated. Their situations are complicated. I know why you hid Julian's feelings from me. I know you and Emma had little choice." "And I am not angry at you now," she hastened to assure him. "About Kieran." "I am changed," said Mark, "because of you. Kieran can sense that my feelings for him have altered in some way, though he doesn't know why. And I cannot tell him." He looked up at the ceiling. "He is a prince. Princes are spoiled. They cannot bear to be thwarted." "He must feel so alone," said Cristina. She remembered the way she had felt with Diego, that what they'd had once had was gone, and she couldn't understand how to get it back. It had been like trying to catch smoke that had dissolved into the air. "You are his only ally here, and he cannot understand why his connection to you feels broken." "He did swear to you," said Mark. He ducked his head, as if he were ashamed of what he was saying. "It is possible that if you order him to do something, he'll have to do it." "I don't want to do that." "Cristina." "No, Mark," she said firmly. "I know this binding spell affects you, too. And upsetting Kieran affects the chances he'll testify. But I won't force him into anything." "Aren't we already?" Mark said. "Lying to him about the situation so he'll talk to the Clave?" Cristina's fingers crept to her injured wrist. The skin felt odd under her fingertips: hot and swollen. "And after he testifies? You'll tell him the truth, right?" Mark rose to his feet. "By the Angel, yes. What do you take me for?" "Someone in a difficult situation," said Cristina. "As we all are. If Kieran doesn't testify, innocent Downworlders may die; the Clave may sink further into corruption. I understand the need for deception. That doesn't mean I like it--or that you do either." Mark nodded, not looking at her. "I had better search for him," he said. "If he'll agree to be helpful, he's our best way to fix this." He indicated his wrist. Cristina felt a slight ache inside. She wondered if she had hurt Mark; she hadn't meant to. "Let's see what kind of range this has," she said. "How far from each other we can go without it hurting." Mark stopped in the doorway. The clean, sharp planes of his face looked cut from glass. "It already hurt me to be away from you," he said. "Perhaps that was meant to be the joke." He was gone before Cristina could answer. She got to her feet and went to the counter where the powders and medicines were. She had a rough idea of medicinal Shadowhunter work: Here were the leaves that had anti- infection properties, here the poultices that kept swelling down. The door of the infirmary opened while she was unscrewing a jar. She looked up: It was Kieran. He looked flushed and windblown, as if he'd been outside. There were patches of color on his high cheekbones. He looked as discomfited to see her as she was to see him. She set the jar down carefully and waited. "Where is Mark?" he said. "He went to find you." Cristina leaned against the counter. Kieran was quiet. A faerie sort of quiet: inward, considering. She had a feeling many people would feel compelled to fill that silence. She let him have it; let him draw the silence into himself, shape and decipher it. "I should apologize," he said finally. "It was uncalled for to accuse you and Mark of having arranged the binding spell. Foolish, too. You have nothing to gain from it. If Mark did not want to be with me, he would say so." Cristina said nothing. Kieran took a step toward her, carefully, as if afraid of frightening her. "Might I see your arm again?" She held her arm out. He took it--she wondered if he had ever touched her deliberately before. It felt like the touch of cool water in summer. Cristina felt a slight shiver up her spine as he studied her injury. She wondered what he had looked like when both of his eyes had been black. They were even more startling now than Mark's, the contrast between the dark and the shimmering silver, like ice and ash. "The shape of a ribbon," he said. "You say you were tied together during a revel?" "Yes," said Cristina. "By two girls. They knew we were Nephilim. They laughed at us." Kieran's grip on her tightened. She remembered the way he'd clung to Mark in the Unseelie Court. Not as if he were weak and needed help. It was a grip of strength, a grip that held Mark in place, that said, Stay with me, it is my command. He was a prince, after all. "That sort of binding spell is one of the oldest," he said. "Oldest and strongest. I do not know why someone would play such a prank on you. It is quite vicious." "But do you know how to undo it?" Kieran dropped Cristina's hand. "I was an unwanted son of the Unseelie King. I received little schooling. Then I was thrown into the Wild Hunt. I am no expert on magic." "You're not useless," Cristina said. "You know more than you think you do." Kieran looked as if she'd startled him once again. "I could speak to my brother, Adaon. I am meant to ask him about taking the throne. I could inquire of him as to whether he knows anything of binding spells or how to end them." "When do you think you will talk to him?" asked Cristina. An image came into her mind of the way Kieran, asleep, had clung to her hand in the Seelie Court. Trying not to blush, she glanced down at her bandage, tugging it back into place. "Soon," he said. "I have tried to reach him already, but not yet with success." "Tell me if there is anything I can do to help you," she said. His eyebrow quirked. He bent down then and lifted her hand, this time to kiss it, not seeming to mind the blood or the bandage. It was a gesture of courts long past in this world, but not in Faerie. Startled, Cristina did not protest. "Lady Mendoza Rosales," he said. "Thank you for your kindness." "I'd rather you called me Cristina," she said. "Honestly." "Honestly," he echoed. "Something we faeries never say. Every word we speak is an honest word." "I wouldn't go that far," said Cristina. "Would you?" A thunderclap shook the Institute. At least, it felt like a thunderclap: It rattled the windows and walls. "Stay here," Kieran said. "I will go find out what that was." Cristina almost laughed. "Kieran," she said. "Really, you don't need to protect me." His eyes flashed; the infirmary door flew open and Mark was there, wide-eyed. He only grew more so when he saw Kieran and Cristina standing at the counter together. "You'd better come," he said. "You won't believe who's just Portaled into the parlor." The town of Polperro was tiny, whitewashed, and picturesque. It was nestled into a quiet harbor, with miles of blue sea spreading out where the harbor opened into the ocean. Small houses in different pale colors clambered up and down the hills that rose steeply on either side of the port. Cobblestoned streets wound among shops selling pastries and soft-serve ice cream. There were no cars. The bus from Liskeard had let them off outside the town; nearing the harbor, they crossed a small bridge at the bottom of the marina. Emma thought of her parents. Her father's gentle smile, the sun on his blond hair. He'd loved the sea, living near the ocean, any kind of beach holiday. He would have loved a town like this, where the air smelled like seaweed and burnt sugar and sunscreen, where fishing boats traced white trails across the blue surface of the distant sea. Her mother would have loved it too--she had always liked to lie in the sun, like a cat, and watch the ocean dance. "What about here?" Julian said. Emma blinked back to reality, realizing they'd been talking about finding something to eat before they'd passed over the bridge and her mind had wandered. Julian was standing in front of a half-timbered house with a restaurant menu pasted up in the diamond-paned window. A group of girls passed by, in shorts and bikini tops, on their way to the sweetshop next door. They giggled and nudged each other when they saw Julian. Emma wondered what he looked like to them--handsome, with all that windblown brown hair and luminous eyes, but surely odd as well, a little unearthly maybe, Marked and scarred as he was. "Sure," she said. "This is fine." Julian was tall enough to need to duck under the low-hanging doorframe to get into the inn. Emma followed, and a few moments later they were being shown to a table by a cheerful, plump woman in a flowered dress. It was nearly five o'clock and the place was mostly deserted. A sense of history hung lightly about it, from the uneven floorboards to the walls decorated with smuggling memorabilia, old maps, and cheerful illustrations of Cornish piskies, the mischievous Fair Folk native to the area. Emma wondered how much the locals believed in them. Not as much as they should, she suspected. They ordered--Coke and fries for Jules, sandwich and lemonade for Emma--and Julian spread his map out over the table. His phone was next to it; he flipped through the photos he'd been taking with one hand, poking at the map with the other. Smears of colored pencil decorated his hand, familiar smudges of blue and yellow and green. "The east side of the harbor is called the Warren," he said. "Lots of houses, and a lot of them are old, but most of them are rented out now to tourists. And none of them are on top of any caves. That leaves the area around Polperro and to the west." Their food had arrived. Emma started wolfing her sandwich; she hadn't realized how hungry she was. "What's this?" she asked, pointing at the map. "That's Chapel Cliff, love," said the waitress, setting down Emma's drink. She pronounced it chaypel. "Start of the coastal path. From there, you can walk all the way to Fowey." She glanced over at the bar, where two tourists had just sat down. "Oi! Be right there!" "How do you find the path?" Julian said. "If we were to walk it today, where would we start?" "Oh, it's a long way to Fowey," said the waitress. "But the path starts up behind the Blue Peter Inn." She pointed out the window, across the harbor. "There's a walking trail that goes up the hill. You turn onto the coastal path at the old net loft, it's all broken down now, you'll see it easy. It's just above the caves." Emma raised her eyebrows. "The caves?" The waitress laughed. "The old smugglers' caves," she said. "I guess you came in at high tide, didn't you? Or you'd have seen them for sure." Emma and Julian exchanged a single look before scrambling to their feet. Heedless of the waitress's startled protests, they spilled out into the street beside the inn. She'd been right, of course: The tide had come down and the harbor looked very different now, the boats beached on rises of muddy sand. Behind the harbor rose a narrow spit of land shingled with gray rocks. It was easy to see why it was called Chapel Cliff. The spit was tipped with gray rocks, which twisted narrowly up into the air like the spires of a church cathedral. The water had lowered enough so that a great deal of the cliff was revealed. The sea had been pounding against the rocks when they'd arrived; now it sloshed quietly in the harbor, retreating to reveal a small, sandy beach, and behind it, the dark openings of several cave mouths. Above the caves, perched on the steep slope of the cliff, was a house. Emma had barely spared it a glance when they'd first arrived--it had simply been one of many small houses that dotted the side of the harbor across from the Warren, though she could see now that it was farther out along the spit of land than any of the others. In fact, it was quite distant from them, standing small and alone between the sea and the sky. Its windows were boarded up; its whitewash had peeled away in gray strips. But if Emma looked with her Shadowhunter eyes, she could see more than an abandoned house: She could see white lace curtains in the windows, and new shingles on the roof. There was a mailbox nailed to the fence. A name was painted onto the box, in sloppy white letters, barely visible from this distance. They certainly wouldn't have been visible to a mundane, but Emma could see them. FADE. <|title|>Chapter 18: Memories of the Past <|startofchapter|>Jia Penhallow was seated behind the desk in the Consul's office, illuminated by the rays of the sun over Alicante. The spires of the demon towers glittered outside the window: red, gold, and orange, like shards of bloody glass. She had the same warmth in her face Diana remembered, but she looked as if much more time had passed since the Dark War than five years. There was white in her black hair, which was pinned up elegantly on top of her head. "It's good to see you, Diana," she said, inclining her head toward the chair opposite her desk. "We've all been very curious about your mysterious news." "I imagine." Diana sat down. "But I was hoping what I had to say would stay between the two of us." Jia didn't look surprised. Not that she would show it if she was. "I see. I'd wondered if you'd come about the Los Angeles Institute head position. I assumed you'd want to take over now that Arthur Blackthorn is dead." Her graceful hands fluttered as she shuffled and stacked papers, slotted pens into their holders. "It was very brave of him to approach the convergence alone. I was sorry to hear he was slain." Diana nodded. For reasons none of them knew, Arthur's body had been found near the destroyed convergence site, covered in blood from his cut throat and in stains of ichor that Julian told her grimly were Malcolm's blood. There was no reason to contradict the official assumption that he had waged a solo assault on the convergence and been killed by Malcolm's demons. At least Arthur would be remembered as brave, though it gave her a pang that he had been burned and buried without his nieces and nephews there to mourn him. That in fact, no one in the wider world would know he had sacrificed himself for his family. Livvy had said to her that she hoped they would be able to have a remembrance ceremony for him when they all went to Idris. Diana hoped so too. Jia didn't seem nonplussed by Diana's silence. "Patrick remembers Arthur from when they were boys," she said, "though I'm afraid I never knew him. How are the children coping?" The children ? How did you explain that the Blackthorns' second father had been their older brother since he was twelve years old? That Julian and Emma and Mark weren't children at all, really, having suffered enough for most adults' entire lifetimes? That Arthur Blackthorn had never, really, run the Institute, and the whole idea that he needed to be replaced was like an elaborate and terrible joke? "The children are devastated," Diana said. "Their family has been fragmented, as you know. What they want is to return to Los Angeles, their home." "But they cannot return while there is no one to head the Institute. Which is why I thought you--" "I don't want it to be me," Diana said. "I'm not here to ask for that job. But neither do I want it to go to Zara Dearborn and her father." "Really," said Jia. Her tone was neutral but her eyes glittered with interest. "If not the Dearborns, and not you, then who?" "If Helen Blackthorn was allowed to return--" Jia sat up straight. "And run the Institute? You know the Council would never allow--" "Then let Aline run the Institute," said Diana. "Helen could simply remain in Los Angeles as her wife, and be with her family." Jia's expression was calm, but her hands gripped the desk tightly. "Aline is my daughter. You think I don't want to bring her home?" "I've never known what you thought," Diana said. It was true. She had no children, but if it had been her sister who had been exiled, she couldn't imagine not fighting tooth and claw to have her released. "When Helen was first exiled, and Aline chose to go with her, I thought about resigning as Consul," said Jia, her hands still taut. "I knew I had no power to reverse the Clave's decision. The Consul is not a tyrant who can impose her choices on the unwilling. Usually I would say that was a good thing. But I will tell you, for a long time, I wished I could be a tyrant." "Why not resign, then?" "I didn't trust who might come after me," said Jia simply. "The Cold Peace was very popular. If the Consul who followed me wished to, they could separate Aline from Helen-- and though I want my daughter home, I don't want her heart broken. They could do worse, too. They could try Aline and Helen as traitors, turn Helen's sentence of exile into one of death. Maybe Aline's as well. Anything was possible." Her gaze was dark and heavy. "I remain where I am to stand between my daughter and the Clave's darker forces." "Then aren't we on the same side?" Diana said. "Don't we want the same thing?" Jia gave a flat smile. "What separates us, Diana, is five years. Five years of my trying everything to get the Council to reconsider. Helen is their example. Their way of saying to the Fair Folk: Look, we take the Cold Peace so seriously we even punish our own. Every time the issue comes up for a vote, I am voted down." "But what if other circumstances presented themselves?" "What other circumstances did you have in mind?" Diana rolled her shoulders back, feeling the tension prickle along her spine. "Jace Herondale and Clary Fairchild were dispatched to Faerie for a mission," she said. It was half a guess--while the two of them had been at the Institute, she had glimpsed the contents of their bags: Both had been packed with iron and salt. "Yes," said Jia. "We have received several messages since they left." "Then they've told you," said Diana. "About the blight on the Unseelie King's Lands." Jia sat arrested, one hand hovering over her desk. "No one knows what they told me but the Inquisitor and myself," she said. "How do you know... ?" "It doesn't matter. I'm telling you because I need you to believe that I know what I'm talking about," said Diana. "I know that the Unseelie King hates Nephilim, and that he has uncovered some force, some magic, that renders our powers useless. He has made it so that there are parts of his kingdom where runes do not work, where seraph blades will not light." Jia frowned. "Jace and Clary didn't mention anything so specific. And they've had no contact with anyone but me since they entered Faerie--" "There is a boy," said Diana. "A faerie, a messenger from the Seelie Court. Kieran. He's also a prince of Unseelie. He knows some of what his father plans. He's willing to testify in front of the Council." Jia looked bewildered. "An Unseelie prince would testify for the Seelie Court? And what is the Seelie Court's interest?" "The Seelie Queen hates the Unseelie King," said Diana. "More, apparently, than she hates Shadowhunters. She is willing to commit the forces of her army to defeating the Unseelie King. To wiping out his power and reversing the blight on his Lands." "Out of the kindness of her heart?" Jia raised an eyebrow. "In exchange for the end of the Cold Peace," said Diana. Jia gave a short bark of laughter. "No one will agree to that. The Clave--" "Everyone is sick of the Cold Peace except the most extreme bigots," said Diana. "And I don't think either of us want to see them gain power." Jia sighed. "You mean the Dearborns. And the Cohort." "I spent quite a bit of time with Zara Dearborn and her Centurion friends at the Institute," said Diana. "Her views are not pleasant." Jia stood up, turning toward the window. "She and her father seek to return the Clave to a lost golden age. A time that never was, when Downworlders knew their place and Nephilim ruled in harmony. In truth, that past was a violent time, when Downworlders suffered and those Nephilim who possessed compassion and empathy were tormented and punished along with them." "How many of them are there?" Diana asked. "The Cohort?" "Zara's father, Horace Dearborn, is the unofficial leader," said Jia. "His wife is dead and he has raised his daughter to follow in his footsteps. If he succeeds in placing himself at the head of the Los Angeles Institute, she will rule from beside him. Then there are other families --the Larkspears, the Bridgestocks, the Crosskills--they're scattered around the world." "And their goal is to continue restricting Downworlder rights. Registering them all, giving them numbers--" "Forbidding their marriages to Shadowhunters?" Diana shrugged. "It's all part of a piece, isn't it? First you number people, then you restrict their rights and break up their marriages. Then--" "No." Jia's voice was gritty. "We can't let this happen. But you don't understand--Zara's being put forth as the great new Shadowhunter of her generation. The new Jace Herondale. Since she killed Malcolm--" Diana bolted out of her chair. "That--that lying girl did not kill Malcolm." "We know Emma didn't," said Jia. "He returned." "I am aware of exactly how he died," said Diana. "He raised Annabel Blackthorn from the dead. She killed him." "What'?" Jia sounded shocked. "It's the truth, Consul." "Diana. You would need proof that what you're saying is true. A trial by Mortal Sword--" Diana's greatest fear. "No," she said. It wouldn't he just my secrets I'd he revealing. It would he Julian's. Emma's. They'd all he ruined. "You must see how this looks," Jia said. "As if you're seeking a way to keep the Los Angeles Institute under your control by discrediting the Dearborns." "They discredit themselves." Diana looked hard at Jia. "You know Zara," she said. "Do you really think she killed Malcolm?" "No," Jia said, after a pause. "I don't." She went to an ornate carved cabinet against one wall of her office. She slid open a drawer. "I need time to think about this, Diana. In the meantime--" She drew out a thick, cream-colored folder full of papers. "This is Zara Dearborn's report on the death of Malcolm Fade and the attacks on the L.A. Institute. Perhaps you can find some discrepancies that might discredit her story." "Thank you." Diana took the folder. "And the Council meeting? A chance for Kieran to give testimony?" "I'll discuss it with the Inquisitor." Jia suddenly looked even older than she had before. "Go home, Diana. I'll summon you tomorrow." "We should have brought Dru," Livvy said, standing inside the gates of Blackthorn Hall. "This is every horror-movie fantasy she's ever had come true." Blackthorn Hall turned out to be in a suburb of London not far from the Thames River. The area around it was ordinary: redbrick houses, bus stops plastered with movie posters, kids riding by on bicycles. After days trapped in the Institute, even the foreignness of London felt to Kit like waking up to reality after a dream. Blackthorn Hall was glamoured, which meant that mundanes couldn't see it. Kit had a sort of double vision when he glanced at it for the first time: He could see a pleasant but dull- looking private park, superimposed over a massive house with towering walls and gates, its stones blackened by years of rain and neglect. He squinted hard. The park vanished, and only the house remained. It loomed overhead. It looked to Kit a little like a Greek temple, with columns holding up an arched portico in front of a set of double doors, massive and made of the same metal as the fence that ran all the way around the property. It was high, tipped with sharp points; the only entrance was a gate, which Ty had made short work of with one of his runes. "What's that one mean?" Kit had asked, pointing, as the gate creaked open with a puff of rust. Ty looked at him. "Open." "I was going to guess that," Kit muttered as they headed inside. Now within the property, he gazed around in wonder. The gardens might have fallen into disrepair now, but you could see where there had been rose arbors, and marble balustrades holding up massive stone jugs spilling flowers and weeds. There were wildflowers everywhere--it was beautiful in its own odd, ruined way. The house was like a small castle, the circlet of thorns that Kit recognized as the Blackthorn family symbol stamped into the metal front doors and onto the tops of the columns. "Looks haunted," said Livvy, as they went up the front steps. In the distance, Kit could see the pitch-black circle of an old ornamental pond. Around it were set marble benches. A single statue of a man in a toga regarded him with blank, worried eyes. "There used to be a whole collection of statues of different Greek and Roman playwrights and poets here," said Livvy, as Ty went to work on the doors. "Uncle Arthur had most of them shipped to the L.A. Institute." "The open rune's not working," said Ty, straightening up and looking at Kit as if he knew everything Kit was thinking. As if he knew everything Kit had ever thought. There was something about being the focus of Tiberius's gaze that was frightening and thrilling all at once. "We'll have to figure another way in." Ty pushed past Kit and his sister, heading down the stairs. They made their way around the side of the Hall, down a pebbled path. Hedges that had probably once been neat and clipped curved away in explosions of leaves and flowers. In the far distance, the water of the Thames shimmered. "Maybe there's a way in through the back," Livvy said. "The windows can't be that secure either." "What about this door?" Kit pointed. Ty turned around, frowning. "What door?" "Here," Kit said, puzzled. He could see the door very clearly: a tall, narrow entrance with an odd symbol carved into it. He placed his hand on the old wood: It felt rough and warm under his fingers. "Don't you see it?" "I see it now," Livvy said. "But--I swear it wasn't there a second ago." "Some kind of doubled glamour?" said Ty, coming up beside Kit. He had pulled up the hood on his sweater, and his face was a pale oval in between the black of his hair and the darkness of his collar. "But why would Kit be able to see it?" "Maybe because I'm used to seeing glamours at the Shadow Market," said Kit. "Glamours that aren't made by Shadowhunters," said Livvy. "Glamours that aren't meant for Shadowhunters to see through," said Kit. Ty looked thoughtful. There was an opaqueness to him sometimes that made it hard for Kit to tell whether Ty agreed with him or not. He did, however, put his stele to the door and begin to draw the Open rune. It wasn't the lock that clicked, but the hinges that popped open. They jumped out of the way as the door half-fell, half-sagged to the side, slamming into the wall with an echoing sound. "Don't press down so hard when you draw," Livvy said to Ty. He shrugged. The space beyond the door was dark enough for the twins to need to spark up their witchlights. The glow of them had a pearlescent whitish tint that Kit found strangely beautiful. They were in an old hallway, filled with dust and the webs of scuttling spiders. Ty went ahead of Kit and Livvy behind him; he suspected they were protecting him, and resented it, but knew that they wouldn't understand his protest if he lodged one. They went down the hall and up a long, narrow staircase, at the end of which was the rotted remains of a door. Through that door was a massive room with a hanging chandelier. "Probably a ballroom," Livvy said, her voice echoing oddly in the space. "Look, this part of the house is better taken care of." It was. The ballroom was empty but clean, and as they moved through other rooms, they found furniture shrouded in drop cloths, windows boarded carefully to protect the glass, boxes stacked in the halls. Inside the boxes were cloths and the strong smell of mothballs. Livvy coughed and waved a hand in front of her face. "There's got to be a library," Ty said. "Somewhere they would keep family documents." "I can't believe our dad might have visited here when he was growing up." Livvy led the way down the hall, her body casting an elongated shadow. Long hair, long legs, shimmering witchlight in her hand. "He didn't live here?" Kit asked. Livvy shook her head. "Grew up in Cornwall, not London. But he went to school in Idris." Idris. Kit had read more about Idris in the London Institute library. The fabled homeland of Shadowhunters, a place of green forests and high mountains, icy-cold lakes and a city of glass towers. He had to admit that the part of him that loved fantasy movies and Lord of the Rings yearned to see it. He told that part of himself to be quiet. Idris was Shadowhunter business, and he hadn't yet decided he wanted to be a Shadowhunter. In fact, he was quite--nearly totally--sure he didn't. "Library," Ty said. It occurred to Kit that Ty never used five words when one would do. He was standing in front of the door to a hexagonal room, the walls beside him hung with paintings of ships. Some were cocked at odd angles as if they were plunging up or down waves. The library walls were painted dark blue, the only art in the room a marble statue of a man's head and shoulders sitting atop a stone column. There was a massive desk with multiple drawers that turned out to be disappointingly empty. Forays behind the bookshelves and under the rug also turned up nothing but dust balls. "Maybe we should try another room," Kit said, emerging from under an escritoire with dust in his blond hair. Ty shook his head, looking frustrated. "There's something in here. I have a feeling." Kit wasn't sure Sherlock Holmes operated on feelings, but he didn't say anything, just straightened up. As he did, he caught sight of a piece of paper sticking out of the edge of the small writing desk. He pulled at it, and it came away. It was old paper, worn almost to transparency. Kit blinked. On it was written his name-- not his name, but his last name, Herondale, over and over, entwined with another name, so that the two words formed looping patterns. The other word was Blackthorn. A deep sense of unease shot through him. He tucked the paper quickly into his jeans pocket just as Ty said, "Move, Kit. I want to get a closer look at that bust." To Kit, bust only meant one thing, but since the only breasts in the room belonged to Ty's sister, he stepped aside with alacrity. Ty strode over to the small statue on the marble column. He'd pulled his hood down, and his hair stood up around his head, soft as the downy feathers of a black swan. Ty touched a small placard below the carving. '"The difficulty is not so great to die for a friend, as to find a friend worth dying for,"' he said. "Homer," said Livvy. Whatever kind of education the Shadowhunters got, Kit had to admit, it was thorough. "Apparently," said Ty, pulling a dagger out of his belt. A second later he'd driven the blade into the carved eye socket of the statue. Livvy yelped. "Ty, what--?" Her brother yanked the blade back out and repeated the action on the statue's second eye socket. This time something round and glimmering popped out of the hole in the plaster with an audible crack. Ty caught it in his left hand. He grinned, and the grin changed his face completely. Ty when he was still and expressionless had an intensity that fascinated Kit; when he was smiling, he was extraordinary. "What did you find?" Livvy darted across the room and they gathered around Tiberius, who was holding out a many-faceted crystal, the size of a child's hand. "And how'd you know it was in there?" "When you said Homer's name," said Ty, "I recalled that he was blind. He's almost always depicted with his eyes shut or with a cloth blindfold. But this statue had open eyes. I looked a little closer and saw that the bust was marble but the eyes were plaster. After that, it was..." "Elementary?" said Kit. "You know, Holmes never says, 'Elementary, my dear Watson,' in the books," said Ty. "I swear I've seen it in the movies," Kit said. "Or maybe on TV." "Who would ever want movies or TV when there are books?" said Ty with disdain. "Could someone here pay attention?" Livvy demanded, her ponytail swinging in exasperation. "What is that thing you found, Ty ?" "An aletheia crystal." He held it up so that it caught the glow of his sister's witchlight. "Look." Kit glanced at the faceted surface of the stone. To his surprise, a face flashed across it, like an image seen in a dream--a woman's face, clouded around with long dark hair. "Oh!" Livvy clapped her hand over her mouth. "She looks a little like me. But how--?" "An aletheia crystal is a way of capturing or transporting memories. I think this one is of Annabel," said Ty. "Aletheia is Greek," Livvy said. "She was the Greek goddess of truth," said Kit. He shrugged when they stared at him. "Ninth-grade book report." Ty's mouth crooked at the corner. "Very good, Watson." "Don't call me Watson," said Kit. Ty ignored this. "We need to figure out how to access what's trapped in this crystal," he said. "As quickly as possible. It could help Julian and Emma." "You don't know how to get into it?" Kit asked. Ty shook his head, clearly disgruntled. "It's not Shadowhunter magic. We don't learn other kinds. It's forbidden." This struck Kit as a stupid rule. How were you ever supposed to know how your enemies operated if you made it forbidden to learn about them? "We should go," Livvy said, hovering in the doorway. "It's starting to get dark. Demon time." Kit glanced toward the window. The sky was darkening, the stain of twilight spreading across the blue. The shadows were coming down over London. "I have an idea," he said. "Why don't we take it to the Shadow Market here? I know my way around the Market. I can find a warlock or even a witch to help us get at whatever's in this thing." The twins glanced at each other. Both were clearly hesitant. "We're not really supposed to go to Shadow Markets," said Livvy. "So tell them I ran off there and you had to catch me," said Kit. "If you even ever have to explain, which you won't." Neither of them spoke, but Kit could see curiosity in Ty's gray eyes. "Come on," he said, pitching his voice low, the way his father had taught him, the tone you used when you wanted to convince people you really meant something. "When you're home, Julian never lets you go anywhere. Now's your chance. Haven't you always wanted to see a Shadow Market?" Livvy broke first. "Okay," she said, casting a quick look at her brother to see if he agreed with her. "Okay, if you know where it is." Ty's pale face lit with excitement. Kit felt the same spark transfer to him. The Shadow Market. His home, his sanctuary, the place he'd been raised. Trailing around after demons and artifacts with Livvy and Ty, they were the ones who knew everything while he knew nothing. But at the Shadow Market, he could shine. He'd shock them. Impress them. And then, maybe, he'd cut and run away. The shadows were lengthening by the time Julian and Emma finished their lunch. Julian bought some food and supplies at a small grocer's shop, while Emma darted next door to pick up pajamas and T-shirts at a small New Age shop that sold tarot cards and crystal gnomes. When she emerged, she was grinning. She produced a blue-and-purple T-shirt emblazoned with a smiling unicorn for Jules, who stared at it in horror. She tucked it into his pack carefully before they started across the town to find the beginning of the path that led up and around the coast. The hills sloped up steeply from the water; it wasn't an easy climb. Marked only as TO THE CLIFFS, the path wound up through the outskirts of the town and the precariously perched houses, all of which looked as if they might at any moment tumble down into the half-moon harbor. Shadowhunters were trained for much more than this kind of exertion, though, and they made good time. Soon they were out of the town proper and walking along a narrow path, the hill rising farther on their right, falling down toward the sea on their left. The sea itself was a luminous deep blue, glowing like a lamp. Clouds the color of seashells twined across the sky. It was beautiful in a completely different way than sunset over the Pacific. Instead of the stark colors of sea and desert, everything here was soft pastels: greens and blues and pinks. What was stark was the cliffs themselves. They were climbing closer to the Chapel part of Chapel Cliff, the rocky promontory that jutted out into the ocean, the spikes of gray stone that crowned it ominously black against the rosy sky. The hill was gone; they were out on the spit of land itself: Long gray slate shingles that looked like a pack of playing cards shuffled and then scattered tumbled steeply away on either side, down toward the sea. The house they had seen from town was nestled among the rocks, the spiked crown of the stone chapel rising behind it. As Emma neared it, she felt the force of its glamour almost as a wall, pushing her back. Jules had slowed too. "There's a placard here," he said. "Says this place belongs to the National Trust. No trespassers." Emma made a face. "No trespassers usually means the local kids have made it into a hangout and the whole place is covered with empty candy wrappers and booze bottles." "I don't know. The glamour here is really strong--it's not just visual, but emotional. You can feel it, right?" Emma nodded. The cottage was giving off waves of stay away and danger and nothing here you want to see. It was a bit like being shouted at by an angry stranger on the bus. "Take my hand," Julian said. "What?" She turned in surprise: He was holding his hand out. She could see the faint smatter of colored pencil on his skin. He flexed his fingers. "We can get through this better together," he said. "Concentrate on pushing it back." Emma took his hand, accepting the shock that went through her at his touch. His skin was warm and soft, rough where there were calluses. He tightened his fingers around hers. They moved forward, past the gate and onto the path leading up to the front door. Emma imagined the glamour as a curtain, as something she could touch. She imagined drawing it aside. It was hard, like lifting a weight with her mind, but strength flowed through her from Julian, through her fingers and wrist, up her arm, into her heart and lungs. Her concentration snapped into focus. Almost casually, she let herself draw the glamour away, lifting it lightly aside. The cottage sprang into clearer view: The windows weren't boarded up at all, but clean and whole, the front door freshly painted a bright blue. Even the knob looked recently polished to a shiny bronze. Julian took hold of it and pushed and the door swung open, welcoming them inside. The sense of something ordering them away from the cottage was gone. Emma let go of Julian's hand and stepped inside; it was too dark to see. She took her witchlight out of her pocket and let its light rise up and around them. Julian, behind her, gave a low whistle of surprise. "This doesn't look deserted. Not by a long shot." It was a small, pretty room. A wooden four-poster bed stood beneath a window with a view out to the village below. Furniture that looked as if it had been hand-painted in blues, grays, and soft seaside colors was scattered about among a profusion of rag rugs. Two walls were taken up by a kitchen with all the modern conveniences: a coffeemaker, a stove, a dishwasher, and granite-topped counters. Neat stacks of firewood rose on either side of a stone-bound fireplace. Two doors led off the main room: Emma investigated and found a small office with a hand-painted desk, and a blue-tiled bathroom with a tub and shower and a basin sink. She turned the shower faucets half in disbelief and yelped as water sprayed her. Everything seemed to be completely in working order, as if someone who lived in the cottage and took loving care of it had only just left. "I guess we might as well stay here," Emma said, returning to the living room, where Julian had flicked on the electric lights. "Way ahead of you, Carstairs," he said, opening a kitchen cabinet and starting to put the groceries away. "Nice place, no rent, and it'll be easier to search if we're here anyway." Emma set her witchlight down on the table and looked around wonderingly. "I know this seems far-fetched," she said, "but do you think Malcolm had a secret second life as a renter of adorably furnished holiday cottages?" "Or," Julian said, "there's an even stronger glamour on this place than we realized and it only looks like an adorably furnished holiday cottage, while actually it's a hole in the ground full of rats." Emma threw herself down on the bed. The blanket felt like a cloud, and the mattress was heavenly after the lumpy one in the London Institute. "Best rats ever," she announced, glad they weren't going to have to stay in a bed-and-breakfast after all. "Imagine their tiny, furry bodies wiggling around you." Julian had turned back and was facing her, a half grin on his face. When Emma had been small, she'd been horrified by rats and rodents. She sat up and glared at him. "Why are you trying to ruin my good time?" "Well, to be fair, this isn't a holiday. Not for us. This is a mission. We're supposed to be looking for anything that might give us an idea where Annabel might have gone." "I don't know," Emma said. "This place looks like it's been stripped down and totally renovated. It was built so long ago, how do we know what's left of the original house? And wouldn't Malcolm have taken anything that was important to him to his house in L. A. ?" "Not necessarily. I think this cottage was special to him." Julian hooked his thumbs through the belt loops of his jeans. "Look at the way he's taken care of it. This house is personal. It feels like a home. Not like that glass-and-steel thing he lived in in L.A." "Then I guess we should start looking around." Emma tried to sound excited at the prospect, but she felt exhausted. No sleep the night before, the long trip on the train, her worry about Cristina, had all sapped her energy. Julian looked at her critically. "I'll make tea," he said. "That'll help." She crinkled her nose at him. "Tea? Tea is your solution? You're not really even British! You spent two months in England! How did they brainwash you?" "You don't like coffee, and you need caffeine." "I get my caffeine the way right-thinking people get it." Emma threw up her hands and stalked into the office. "From chocolate!" She began to pull the drawers out of the desk. They were empty. She examined the bookshelves; nothing interesting there, either. She started to cross the room to the closet and heard something creak. She turned back and knelt down, shoving the rag rug out of the way. The floor was stripped oak. Just under the rug was a square of lighter wood, and the faint black lines of seaming where the square outline of a trapdoor was visible. Emma took her stele out and placed the tip against it. "Open," she whispered, drawing the rune. There was a tearing sound. The square of wood ripped away and crumbled into chunks of sawdust, tumbling into the hole she'd uncovered. It was slightly bigger on all sides than she'd thought. In it were several small books, and a large, leather-bound tome that Emma squinted at in puzzlement. Was it some kind of spell book? "Did you just blow something up?" Julian came in, his cheek smeared with something black. He glanced over Emma's shoulder and whistled. "Your classic secret floor compartment." "Help me take this stuff out of it. You get the giant book." Emma picked up the three smaller volumes; they were all bound in worn leather with a stamped MFB on the spines, their pages rough-edged. "It's not a book," Julian said in a slightly odd voice. "It's a portfolio." He retrieved it and carried it into the living room, Emma hurrying after him. Two steaming cups of tea stood on the kitchen island, and a fire was blazing away. Emma realized that the black stuff on Julian's face was probably ash. She pictured him kneeling here, starting a fire for them, patient and thoughtful, and felt a wave of overwhelming tenderness for him. He was already standing at the island, gently opening the portfolio. He caught his breath. The first picture was a watercolor of Chapel Cliff, seen from a distance. The colors and shapes leaped out vividly; Emma could feel cool sea air on her neck, hear the cry of gulls. "It's lovely," she said, sitting down opposite him on a tall stool. "Annabel did it." He touched her signature in the right-hand corner. "I had no idea she was an artist." "I guess art runs in your blood," Emma said. Julian didn't look up. He was turning the pages with careful, almost reverent hands. There were many more seascapes: Annabel seemed to have loved capturing the ocean and the curves of land that bordered it. Annabel had also drawn dozens of pictures of the Blackthorn manor house in Idris, lingering on the softness of its golden stone, the beauty of its gardens, the vines of thorns that wrapped the gates. Like the mural on the wall of your room, Emma wanted to say to Julian, but she didn't. Julian's hand stopped on none of those, though. He paused instead on a sketch that was unmistakably of the cottage they were in at that moment. A wooden fence surrounded it, and Polperro was visible in the distance, the Warren crawling up the opposite hill, crowded with houses. Malcolm leaned against the fence, looking impossibly young--he clearly had not yet stopped aging. Though it was a pencil sketch, somehow the drawing caught the fairness of his hair, the oddity of his eyes, but they had been rendered in such loving lines that he looked beautiful. He seemed about to smile. "I think that they lived here two hundred years ago, probably in hiding from the Clave," Julian said. "There's something about a place you've been with someone you love. It takes on a meaning in your mind. It becomes more than a place. It becomes a distillation of what you felt for each other. The moments you spend in a place with someone ... they become part of its bricks and mortar. Part of its soul." The firelight touched the side of his face, his hair, turning them gold. Emma felt tears rise in the back of her throat and fought them back. "There's a reason Malcolm didn't just let this place fall into ruins. He loved it. He cared about it because it was a place he'd been with her." Emma picked up her tea. "And maybe a place he wanted to bring her back to?" she said. "After he raised her?" "Yes. I think Malcolm raised Annabel's body nearby, that he planned to hide with her here the way he had so long ago." Julian seemed to shake off the intense mood that had come on him, like a wet dog shaking water off its fur. "There're some guidebooks to Cornwall on the shelves--I'll go through them. What have you got there? What's in the books?" Emma opened the first one. Diary of Malcolm Fade Blackthorn, Age 8 , was scrawled on the inside cover. "By the Angel," she said. "His diaries." She began to read out loud from the first page: "My name is Malcolm Fade Blackthorn. I chose the first two names myself, hut the last was given to me to use by the Blackthorns, who have kindly taken me in. Felix says I am a ward, though I don't know what that means. He also says lama warlock. When he says it, I think it is probably not a good thing to be, but Annabel says not to worry, that we are all bom what we are and can't change it. Annabel says..." She broke off. This was the man who'd murdered her parents; but it was also a child's voice, helpless and wondering, echoing down through the centuries. Two hundred years-- the diary wasn't dated, but it must have been written in the early 1800s. '"Annabel says,"' she whispered. "He fell in love with her so early." Julian cleared his throat and stood up. "Looks like it," he said. "We'll have to search the diary for mentions of places that were important to both of them." "It's a lot of diary," Emma said, glancing at the three volumes. "Then I guess we've got a lot of reading ahead of us," said Julian. "I'd better make more tea." Emma's wail of "Not tea!" followed him into the kitchen. The London Shadow Market was located at the southern end of London Bridge. Kit was disappointed to find that London Bridge was just a dull concrete edifice without towers. "I thought it would be like it is in the postcards," he lamented. "You're thinking of Tower Bridge," Livvy informed him archly as they began scrambling down a set of narrow stone steps to reach the space below the London Bridge railway lines, which crisscrossed overhead. "That's the one in all the pictures. The real London Bridge was knocked down a long time ago; this one's the modern replacement." A sign advertised some kind of daytime fruit and vegetable market, but that had long since closed. The white-painted stalls were battened down tightly, the gates locked. The shadow of Southwark Cathedral loomed over it all, a bulk of glass and stone that blocked their view of the river. Kit blinked away the glamour as he reached the bottom of the steps. The image tore like spiderwebs and the Shadow Market burst into life. They were still using many of the ordinary market's stalls--clever, he thought, to hide in plain sight like that--but they were brightly colored now, a rainbow of paint and shimmer. Tents billowed in between the stalls as well, made of silks and draperies, signs floating beside their openings, advertising everything from fortune-telling to luck charms to love spells. They slipped into the bustling crowd. Stalls sold enchanted masks, bottles of vintage blood for vampires--Livvy looked like she was going to gag over the RED HOT CHERRY FLAVOUR variety--and apothecaries did a brisk trade in magical powders and tinctures. A werewolf with thin, pale white hair sold bottles of a silvery powder, while across from him a witch whose skin had been tattooed with multicolored scales was hawking spell books. Several stands were taken up with selling Shadowhunter-repelling charms, which made Livvy giggle. Kit was less amused. "Push your sleeves down," he said. "And pull your hoods up. Cover your Marks as much as you can." Livvy and Ty did as they were told. Ty reached for his headphones, too, but paused. Slowly he looped them back around his neck. "I should keep them off," he said. "I might need to hear something." Livvy squeezed his shoulder and said something to him in a low voice that Kit couldn't hear. Ty shook his head, waving her away, and they pushed farther into the Market. A group of pale-skinned Night's Children had gathered at a stall advertising WILLING VICTIMS HERE. A crowd of humans sat around a deal table, chatting; occasionally another vampire would come up, money would change hands, and one of the humans would be drawn into the shadows to be bitten. Livvy made a smothered noise. "They're very careful," Kit assured her. "There's a place like this in the L.A. Market. The vamps never drink enough to hurt anyone." He wondered if he should say something else reassuring to Ty. The dark-haired boy was pale, with a fine sheen of sweat along his cheekbones. His hands were opening and closing at his sides. Farther along was a stall advertising a RAW BAR. Werewolves surrounded a dozen fresh carcasses of animals, selling bloody hunks torn off in fistfuls by passing customers. Livvy frowned; Ty said nothing. Kit had noticed before that puns and language jokes didn't interest Ty much. And right now, Ty looked as if he were struggling between trying to take in the details of the Market, and throwing up. "Put your headphones on," Livvy murmured to him. "It's all right." Ty shook his head again. His black hair was sticking to his forehead. Kit frowned. He wanted to grab Ty and drag him out of the Market to somewhere it would be calm and quiet. He remembered Ty saying that he hated crowds, that the sheer noise and confusion was "like broken glass in my head." There was something else, too, something odd and off about this Market. "I think we've wandered into the food area," said Livvy, making a face. "I wish we hadn't." "This way." Kit turned more toward the cathedral. Usually there was a section of the Market where warlocks grouped together; so far he'd only seen vampires, werewolves, witches, and... He slowed almost to a stop. "No faeries," he said. "What?" Livvy asked, nearly bumping into him. "The Market is usually full of faeries," he said. "They sell everything from invisibility clothes to sacks of food that are never empty. But I haven't seen a single one here." "I have," said Ty. He pointed. Nearby was a large stall manned by a tall male witch with long braided gray hair. In front of the stall was a green baize table. Displayed on the table were antique birdcages made of white-painted wrought iron. Each one was quite pretty in its own right, and for a moment Kit thought that they were what was for sale. Then he looked closer. Inside each cage was a small, trapped creature. An assortment of pixies, nixies, brownies, and even a goblin, whose wide eyes were nearly swollen shut-- probably from so much proximity to cold iron. The other faeries were chattering mournfully and softly, their hands seizing at the bars and then falling away with low cries of pain. Ty was white with distress. His hands trembled against his sides. Kit thought of Ty in the desert, stroking the small lizards, putting mice in his pockets, capturing weasels for company. Ty, whose heart went out to small and helpless living things. "We can't leave them like that." "They're probably selling them for blood and bones," said Livvy, her voice shaking. "We have to do something." "You have no authority here, Shadowhunter." A cool, clipped voice spun them around. A woman stood before them. Her skin was dark as mahogany, her hair like bronze and dressed high on her head. The pupils of her eyes were shaped like golden stars. She was dressed in a glacier-white pantsuit with high, sparkling heels. She could have been any age from eighteen to thirty. She smiled when they looked at her. "Yes, I can recognize a Shadowhunter, even those clumsily hiding their Marks," she said. "I suggest you leave the Market before someone less friendly than I am notices you." Both the twins had made subtle gestures toward their weapons belts, their hands hovering near the hilts of their seraph blades. Kit knew this was his moment: his moment to show how well he could handle a Market and its denizens. Not to mention preventing a bloodbath. "I am an emissary of Barnabas Hale," he said. "Of the Los Angeles Market. These Shadowhunters are under my protection. Who are you?" "Hypatia Vex," she said. "I co-run this Market." She narrowed her starry eyes at Kit. "A representative of Barnabas, you say? Why should I believe you?" "The only people who know about Barnabas Hale," said Kit, "are people he wants to know." She nodded slightly. "And the Shadowhunters? Barnabas sent them, too?" "He needs me to consult a warlock regarding a peculiar magical object," said Kit. He was flying high now, high on the lies and the trickery and the con. "They have it in their possession." "Very well, then. If Barnabas sent you to consult a warlock, which warlock was it?" "It was me." A deep voice spoke from the shadows. Kit turned to see a figure standing in front of a large dark green tent. It had been a male voice, but otherwise the figure was too covered--massive robe, cloak, hood, and gloves--to discern gender. "I'll take this, Hypatia." Hypatia blinked slowly. It was like the stars vanishing and then reappearing from behind a cloud. "If you insist." She made as if to turn and stalk away, then paused, looking back over her shoulder at Livvy and Ty. "If you pity those creatures, those faeries, dying inside their cages," she said, "think of this: If it were not for the Cold Peace your people insisted on, they would not be here. Look to the blood on your own hands, Shadowhunters." She disappeared between two tents. Ty's expression was full of distress. "But my hands--" "It's an expression." Livvy put her arm around her twin, hugging him tightly to her side. "It's not your fault, Ty, she's just being cruel." "We should go," Kit said to the robed and hooded warlock, who nodded. "Come with me," he said, and slipped into his tent. The rest of them followed. The inside of the tent was remarkably clean and plain, with a wooden floor, a simple cot bed, and several shelves filled with books, maps, bottles of powder, candles in different colors, and jars of alarming-colored liquids. Ty exhaled, leaning back against one of the tent poles. Relief was printed clearly on his face as he basked in the relative calm and quiet. Kit wanted to go over to Ty and ask him if he was all right after the cacophony of the Market, but Livvy was already there, brushing the sweat-damp hair off her brother's forehead. Ty nodded, said something to her Kit couldn't hear. "Come," said the warlock. "Sit down with me." He gestured. In the center of the room was a small table surrounded by chairs. The Shadowhunters sat down, and the hooded warlock settled opposite them. In the flickering light inside the tent, Kit could glimpse the edge of a mask beneath the hood, obscuring the warlock's face. "You may call me Shade," he said. "It's not my last name, but it will do." "Why did you he for us?" Livvy said. "Out there. You don't have any agreement with Barnabas Hale." "Oh, I have a few," said Shade. "Not regarding you, to be fair, but I do know the man. And I'm curious that you do. Not many Shadowhunters are even aware of his name." "I'm not a Shadowhunter," said Kit. "Oh, you are," said Shade. "You're that new Herondale, to be exact." Livvy's voice was sharp. "How do you know that? Tell us now." "Because of your face," he said, to Kit. "Your pretty, pretty face. You're not the first Herondale I've met, not even the first with those eyes, like distilled twilight. I don't know why you only have one Mark, but I can certainly make a guess." He templed his hands under his chin. Kit thought he saw a gleam of green skin at his wrist, just below the edge of his glove. "I have to say I never thought I'd have the pleasure of entertaining the Lost Herondale." "I'm not all that entertained, actually," said Kit. "We could put on a movie." Livvy leaned forward. "Sorry," she said. "He gets like this when he's uncomfortable. Sarcastic." "Who knew that was an inherited trait?" Shade held out a gloved hand. "Now, show me what you've brought. I assume that wasn't a lie?" Ty reached into his jacket and brought out the aletheia crystal. In the candlelight, it glittered more than ever. Shade chuckled. "A memory-holder," he said. "It looks like you might get your movie, after all." He reached out, and after a moment's hesitation, Ty allowed him to take it. Shade set the crystal delicately in the center of the table. He passed a hand over it, then frowned and removed his glove. As Kit had thought, the skin of the hand he revealed was deep green. He wondered why Shade would bother covering something like that up, here in the Shadow Market, where warlocks were commonplace. Shade passed his bare hand over the crystal and murmured. The candles in the room began to gutter. His murmuring increased--Kit recognized the words as Latin, which he'd taken three months of in school before he decided there was no point in knowing a language you couldn't converse in with anyone but the Pope, who he was unlikely to meet. He had to admit now that it had a weight to it, though, a sense that each word was freighted with a deeper meaning. The candles went out entirely, but the room wasn't dark: The crystal was glowing, brighter and brighter under Shade's touch. At last a focused beam of light seemed to explode from it, and Kit realized what Shade had meant when he'd joked about a movie. The light worked like the beam of a projector, casting moving images against the dark wall of the tent. A girl sat bound to a chair inside a circular room filled with benches, a sort of auditorium. Through the windows of the room Kit could see mountains covered in snow. Though it was likely winter, the girl was wearing only a white shift dress; her feet were bare, and her long dark hair hung in tangles. Her face was remarkably like Livvy's, so much so that to see it twisted in agony and terror made Kit tense. "Annabel Blackthorn." A slight man with bent shoulders entered the scene. He was dressed in black; he wore a pin not unlike Diego's clasped at his shoulder. His hood was drawn up: Because of that and the angle of the crystal's viewpoint, it was hard to see his face or body in much detail. "The Inquisitor," muttered Shade. "He was a Centurion, back then." "You have come before us," the man went on, "accused of consorting with Downworlders. Your family took in the warlock Malcolm Fade and raised him as a brother to you. He repaid their kindness with abject treachery. He stole the Black Volume of the Dead from the Cornwall Institute, and you helped him." "Where is Malcolm?" Annabel's voice was shaking, but also clear and firm. "Why isn't he here? I refuse to be questioned without him." "How attached you are to your warlock despoiler," sneered the Inquisitor. Livvy gasped. Annabel looked furious. She had Livvy's stubborn set to her jaw, Kit thought, but there was a little of Ty and the rest in her too. Julian's haughtiness, Dru's look of easy hurt, the thoughtful cast of Ty's mouth and eyes. "So will it disappoint you, then, to hear that he is gone?" "Gone?" Annabel repeated blankly. "Disappeared from his cell in the Silent City overnight. Abandoned you to our tender mercies." Annabel clasped her hands tightly in her lap. "That can't be true," she said. "Where is he? What have you done with him?" "We have done nothing with him. I would be happy to testify to such under the grip of the Mortal Sword," said the Inquisitor. "In fact, what we want from you now--and we will release you afterward--is Fade's location. Now, why would we want to know that unless he truly had escaped?" Annabel was shaking her head wildly, her dark hair whipping across her face. "He wouldn't leave me," she whispered. "He wouldn't." "The truth is better faced, Annabel," said the Inquisitor. "He used you to gain access to the Cornwall Institute, to thieve from it. Once he had what he wanted, he vanished with it, leaving you alone to take the brunt of our wrath." "He wanted it for our protection." Her voice trembled. "It was so we could begin a new life together where we would be safe--safe from the Law, safe from you." "The Black Volume does not contain spells of safety or protection," said the Inquisitor. "The only way it could be of help to you would be if you traded it to someone powerful. Who was Fade's powerful ally, Annabel?" She shook her head, her chin set stubbornly. Behind her someone else was coming into the room: a stern-faced woman carrying what looked like a bundle of black cloth. She sent a shiver up Kit's spine. "I will tell you nothing. Not even if you use the Sword." "Indeed, we cannot believe what you say under the Sword," said the Inquisitor. "Malcolm has so tainted you--" "Tainted?" Annabel echoed in horror. "As if--as if I am filth now?" "You were filth from the time you first touched him. And now we do not know how he has changed you; you may well have some protection from our instruments of justice. Some charm we know not of. So we must do this as mundanes do it." The woman with the stern face had arrived at the Inquisitor's side. She passed him the black bundle. He unrolled it, revealing a variety of sharp instruments--knives and razors and awls. Some of them had blades already stained with rusty red. "Tell us who has that book now and the pain stops," said the Inquisitor, lifting up a razor. Annabel began to scream. Mercifully, the image went dark. Livvy was pale. Ty was leaning forward, his arms clasping his body tightly. Kit wanted to reach out, wanted to put his hands on Ty, wanted to tell him it would be all right, communicate it in a way that startled him. "There is more," said Shade. "A different scene. Look." The image on the wall shifted. They were still inside the same auditorium, but it was night, and the windows were dark. The place was lit with torches that burned white-gold. They could see the Inquisitor's face now, where before they had only been able to see the edges of his dark clothes and his hands. He wasn't nearly as old as Kit had thought: a youngish man, with dark hair. The room was empty except for him and a group of other men of varying ages. There were no women. The other men weren't wearing robes, but Regency-era clothes: buckskin trousers and short, buttoned jackets. Several had sideburns as well, and a few had neat, trimmed beards. They all looked agitated. "Felix Blackthorn," said the Inquisitor, drawling a bit. "Your daughter, Annabel, was chosen to become an Iron Sister. She was sent to you for a final farewell, but I hear now from the ladies of the Adamant Citadel that she never arrived. Have you any idea of her whereabouts?" A man with brown hair streaked with gray frowned. Kit stared at him in some fascination: Here was a living ancestor of Ty and Livvy, Julian and Mark. His face was broad and bore the marks of a bad temper. "If you suggest I am hiding my daughter, I am not," he said. "She fouled herself with the touch of a warlock, and she is no longer a part of our family." "My uncle speaks the truth," said another of the men, this one younger. "Annabel is dead to us all." "What a vivid image," said the Inquisitor. "Don't mind me if I find it more than an image." The younger man flinched. Felix Blackthorn didn't change expression. "You would not mind a trial by Mortal Sword, would you, Felix?" said the Inquisitor. "Just to ensure that you truly do not know where your daughter is." "You sent her back to us tortured and half-mad," snapped the younger Blackthorn. "Do not tell us now you care about her fate!" "She was no more hurt than many Shadowhunters might be in a battle," said the Inquisitor, "but death is another thing entirely. And the Iron Sisters are asking." "Might I speak?" said another of the men; he had dark hair and an aristocratic look. The Inquisitor nodded. "Since Annabel Blackthorn went to join the Iron Sisters," he said, "Malcolm Fade has become a true ally to Nephilim. One of those rare warlocks we can count on our side, and who is indispensable in a battle." "Your point, Herondale?" "If he does not think his lady love left him, shall we say, voluntarily, or if he learns of any harm that came to her, I think it unlikely that he will continue to be such a valuable asset to us." "The ladies of the Adamant Citadel do not leave their island to truck in gossip," said another man, narrow-faced as a ferret. "If the discussion of the fate of unfortunate Annabel ends here, then it ends. After all, perhaps she ran away on the road, or perhaps she fell victim to a demon or a highwayman on the way to the Citadel. We may never know." The Inquisitor tapped his fingers on the arm of his chair. He was looking at Felix Blackthorn, his eyes hooded; it was impossible for Kit to tell what he might be thinking. Finally he said, "You're damnably clever, Felix, bringing your friends into this. You know I can't punish you all without chaos. And you're right about Fade. There's been a demon uprising near the Scholomance, and we need him." He flung his hands up. "Very well. We'll never discuss this again." A look of relief passed over Felix Blackthorn's face, mixed with an odd bitterness. "Thank you," he said. "Thank you, Inquisitor Dearborn." The vision narrowed to a pinpoint of black and vanished. For a moment Kit sat still. He heard Livvy and Ty speaking in rapid voices, and Shade answering: Yes, the vision was a real memory; no, there was no way of identifying whose it might be. It was probably two hundred years old. They were clearly excited about the mention of an Inquisitor Dearborn. But Kit's brain had snagged on one word like a piece of cloth on a hook: Herondale. One of those horrible men had been his ancestor. Herondales and Dearborns and Blackthorns together had been complicit in covering up the torture and murder of a young woman whose only crime had been to love a warlock. It had been one thing to think he was related to Jace, who seemed to be universally adored and good at everything. Everyone had spoken of Herondales to him as though they were royalty, world-saving royalty. He remembered Arthur's words. What kind of Herondale will you he? William or Tobias? Stephen or Jace? Beautiful, hitter, or both? "Rook!" The front of the tent shook. "Kit Rook, come out of there right now!" The chatter inside the tent stopped. Kit blinked; he wasn't Kit Rook, he was Christopher Herondale, he was-- He staggered to his feet. Livvy and Ty leaped up after him, Ty pausing only to pocket the aletheia crystal. "Kit, don't--" Livvy started, reaching for him, but Kit had already shoved his way out of the tent. Someone was calling his real name--or maybe it wasn't his real name--but it was a part of him that he couldn't deny. He stumbled into the lane outside. Barnabas Hale stood in front of him, his arms crossed over his chest, his scaled white skin gleaming sickly in the torchlight. Behind him loomed a group of werewolves: big, muscular men and women in black leather and spiked bracelets. More than one sported a pair of brass knuckles. "So, little Rook," Barnabas said, his snake's tongue flickering as he grinned. "What's this I hear about you pretending to be here on business for me?" <|title|>Chapter 19: The Gray Woods <|startofchapter|>"I told you to stay away from the Shadow Market, Rook," said Barnabas. "Is there a reason you didn't listen? Lack of respect for me, or just a lack of respect for Downworlders overall?" A crowd had begun to gather, a curious mixture of sneering vampires, grinning werewolves, and wary-looking warlocks. "You told me to stay out of the Los Angeles Market," said Kit, "not every Shadow Market in the world. You don't have that power and reach, Hale, and it's up to the owner of this Market to decide if I stay or if I go." "That would be me." It was Hypatia, her smooth face expressionless. "I thought you were the co-runner?" said Kit. "Good enough, and watch your impertinence. I don't appreciate being lied to, child. Nor do I appreciate you bringing two Nephilim in here with you." The crowd gasped. Kit winced internally. This was not going their way. "They don't support the Cold Peace," he said. "Did they vote against it?" asked a warlock with a ring of spikes growing from around her throat. "We were ten years old," said Livvy. "We were too young." "Children," hissed the man standing behind the counter of caged faeries. It was hard to tell if he said the word with surprise, contempt, or hunger. "Oh, he didn't just bring Nephilim with him," said Barnabas, with his snakelike grin. "He is one. A Shadowhunter spy." "What do we do?" Ty whispered. They were now pressed so tightly together that Kit couldn't move his arms, pinned between Ty and Livvy. "Get your weapons," said Kit. "And get ready to figure out how to run." To the twins' credit, neither gave so much as an intake of breath. Their hands moved quickly at the periphery of Kit's vision. "That's a lie," he said. "My father is Johnny Rook." "And your mother?" said the deep voice of Shade, behind them. A crowd had gathered behind him, too; they couldn't run that way. "I don't know," said Kit, between his teeth. To his surprise, Hypatia raised her eyebrows, as if she knew something he didn't. "And it doesn't matter--we didn't come here to harm you or spy on you. We needed a warlock's help." "But Nephilim have their own pet warlocks," said Barnabas, "those willing to betray Downworld as they grub for money in the pockets of the Clave. Though after what all of you did to Malcolm..." "Malcolm?" Hypatia stood up straight. "These are Blackthorns? The ones responsible for his death?" "He only died halfway," Ty said. "He came back as a sort of sea demon, for a while. He's dead now, obviously," he added, as if realizing that he had somehow put his foot in it. "This is why Sherlock Holmes lets Watson do the talking," Kit said to him in a hissing whisper. "Holmes never lets Watson do the talking," Ty snapped. "Watson is backup." "I'm not backup," said Kit, and drew a knife from his pocket. He heard the werewolves laugh, mocking the dagger's puny dimensions, but it didn't bother him. "Like I said," he told them. "We came here to peacefully speak to a warlock and leave. I've grown up in Shadow Markets. I bear them no ill will, and neither do my companions. But if you attack us, we will fight back. And then there will be others, other Nephilim, who will come to avenge us. And for what? What good will it do?" "The boy is right," said Shade. "War like this benefits no one." Barnabas waved him away. His eyes had a fanatical gleam to them. "But setting an example does," he said. "Let the Nephilim know what it is like to find the crumpled bodies of your children dead on your doorstep and for there to be no restitution and no justice." "Don't do this--" Livvy began. "Finish them," said Barnabas, and his pack of werewolves, as well as a few of the onlookers, sprang toward them. Outside the cottage, the lights of Polperro gleamed like stars against the dark hillsides. The sweep of the sea was audible, the soft sound of ocean rising and falling, the lullaby of the world. It had certainly worked on Emma. Despite Julian's best efforts with the tea, she had fallen asleep in front of the fireplace, Malcolm's diary open beside her, her body curled like a cat's. She had been reading out loud to him from the diary before she'd fallen asleep. From the very beginning, when Malcolm had been found alone, a confused child who couldn't remember his parents and had no idea what a warlock was. The Blackthorns had taken him in, as far as Julian could tell, because they thought a warlock might be useful to them, a warlock they could control and compel. They had explained to him his true nature, and none too gently at that. Of all the family, only Annabel had shown kindness to Malcolm. They had explored the cliffs and caves of Cornwall together as children, and she had shown him how they could exchange messages secretly using a raven as a carrier. Malcolm wrote lyrically of the seaside, its changes and tempests, and lyrically of Annabel, even when he did not know his own feelings. He loved her quick wit and her strong nature. He loved her protectiveness--he wrote of how she had defended him angrily to her cousins--and over time he began to marvel at not just the beauty of her heart. His pen skipped and stuttered as he wrote of her soft skin, the shape of her hands and mouth, the times when her hair came out of its plaits and floated around her like a cloud of shadow. Julian had almost been glad when Emma's voice had trailed off, and she'd lain down--just to rest her eyes, she said--and fallen almost instantly asleep. He had never thought he would sympathize with Malcolm or think of the two of them as alike, but Malcolm's words could have been the story of the ruination of his own heart. Sometimes, Malcolm had written, someone you have known all your life becomes no longer familiar to you, but strange in a marvelous way, as if you have discovered a beach you have been visiting all your life is made not of sand but of diamonds, and they blind you with their beauty. Annabel, you have taken my life, my life as dull as the edge of an unused blade, you have taken it apart and put it back together in a shape so strange and marvelous I can only wonder... There was a loud thud, a sound as if a bird had flown into the glass of one of the windows. Julian sat up straight, reaching for the dagger he'd placed on the low table next to the sofa. The thud came again, louder. Julian rose to his feet. Something moved outside the window--the flash of something white. It was gone, and then there was another thud. Something thrown against the glass, like a child throwing pebbles at a friend's window to get their attention. Julian glanced at Emma. She had rolled onto her back, her eyes closed, her chest rising and falling in a regular rhythm. Her mouth was slightly open, her cheeks flushed. He went to the door and turned the knob slowly, trying to prevent it from squeaking. It opened, and he stepped out into the night. It was cool and dark, the moon dangling over the water like a pearl on the end of a chain. Around the house was uneven ground that fell away almost sheerly on one side to the ocean. The surface of the water was darkly transparent, the shape of rocks visible through it as if Julian was looking through black glass. "Julian," said a voice. "Julian Blackthorn." He turned. The house was behind him. Ahead of him was Peak Rock, the tip of the cliff, and dark grass growing out of gaps between the gray stones. He raised his hand, the witchlight rune-stone in it. Light rayed out, illuminating the girl standing in front of him. It was as if she'd stepped out of his own drawing. Dark hair, straight as a pin, an oval face like a sad Madonna, framed by the hood of an enormous cloak. Beneath the cloak he could see thin, pale ankles and cracked shoes. "Annabel?" he said. The knife flew from Kit's hand. It shot across the distance between him and the approaching mob and drove straight into Barnabas Hale's shoulder. The snake-scaled warlock staggered backward and fell, yelling in pain. "Kit!" Livvy said, in amazement; he could tell she wasn't sure he'd done the right thing, but he'd never forgotten an Emerson quote that was a favorite of his father's: When you strike at a king, you must kill him. One warlock was more powerful than a pack of werewolves, and Barnabas was their leader. Two reasons to take him out of the fight. But there was no more time to think about that, because the Downworlders were on them. "Umbriel!" shouted Livvy. A blazing blade shot from her hand. She was a whirl of motion, her saber training making her fast and graceful. She spun in a deadly circle, her hair whipping around her. She was a gorgeous blur of light and dark, and arcs of blood followed her blade. Ty, wielding a shortsword, had backed up against the pillar of a stall, which was clever because the stall owner was shouting at the Downworlders to get back even as they advanced. "Oi! Get away!" yelled the stall owner, and her wares began to fly through the air, bottles of tinctures splattering against the surprised faces of werewolves and vampires. Some of the substances seemed corrosive--at least one werewolf fell back with a yell, clutching a sizzling face. Ty smiled, and despite everything that was happening, it made Kit want to smile, too. He filed it away as a memory to revisit later, considering that right now a massive werewolf with shoulders like flying buttresses was careening toward him. He reached out and yanked a pole free of Shade's tent, causing the whole structure to tilt. Kit swung out with the pole. It wasn't the hardest metal, but it was flexible, like a massive whip. He heard the crunch of bone against skin as it slammed the leaping werewolf directly in the sternum. With a grunt of agony, the lycanthrope went sailing past Kit's head. Kit's body thrummed with excitement. Maybe they could do it. Maybe the three of them could fight their way out of this. Maybe that was what it meant to have Heaven in your blood. Livvy screamed. Kit knocked a vampire out of his way with a vicious whack of the pole, and spun to see what had happened. One of the bottles flying through the air had smashed against her side. It was clearly an acidic substance--it was burning through the material of her clothes, and though her hand was clamped against the wound, Kit could see blood between her fingers. She was still slashing out with her other hand, but the Downworlders, like sharks smelling blood, had turned away from Ty and Kit and were moving toward her. She hit out, spearing two, but without being able to properly shield her body, her circle of protection was shrinking. A vampire stepped nearer, licking his lips. Kit began to run toward her. Ty was ahead of him, using his shortsword to hack his way through the crowd. Blood was pattering down on the ground at Livvy's feet. Kit's heart tensed with panic. She slumped just as Ty reached her and the two of them went down on the ground, Livvy in her brother's arms. Umbriel clattered from her hand. Kit staggered toward the two of them. He threw his pole aside, hitting several werewolves, and snatched up Livvy's seraph blade. Ty had put down the shorts word. He was holding his sister, who was unconscious, her hair spilling across his shoulders and chest. He had his stele out and was tracing a healing rune on her skin, though his hand was shaking and the rune was uneven. Kit held up the blazing sword. The light of it made the Downworlders cringe back slightly, but he knew it wasn't enough: They would press on, and tear him apart, and then they would tear apart Livvy and Ty. He saw Barnabas, his suit soaked in blood, leaning on the arm of a bodyguard. His eyes, fixed on Kit, were filled with hate. There would be no mercy here. A wolf leaped toward Kit. He raised Umbriel, swung it--and connected with nothing. The wolf had tumbled to the ground, as if shoved by an unseen hand. There was a blast of wind. Kit's gold hair blew across his face; he pushed it back with a hand stained red. The tents were rattling; more jars and bottles smashed. Blue lightning crackled, and a fork of it stabbed into the ground just in front of Barnabas. "I see," said a silky voice, "that I seem to have arrived here just in time." Walking toward them was a tall man with short, black, spiked hair. He was clearly a warlock: His eyes were cat's eyes, with slit pupils, green and gold. He wore a charcoal trench coat dramatically lined with red that swept out behind him when he walked. "Magnus Bane," said Barnabas, with clear loathing. "The Ultimate Traitor." "Not my favorite nickname," Magnus said, gently wiggling his fingers in Barnabas's direction. "I prefer 'Our Lord and Master' or maybe 'Unambiguously the Hottest.'" Barnabas shrank back. "These three Nephilim broke into the Market under false pretenses 55 "Did they break the Accords?" Barnabas snarled. "One of them stabbed me." "Which one?" Magnus asked. Barnabas pointed at Kit. "Dreadful business," Magnus said. His left hand was down by his side. Surreptitiously, he gave Kit a thumbs-up. "Was that before or after you attacked them?" "After," Kit said. One of Barnabas's bodyguards started toward him; he jabbed out with his blade. This time the lightning that forked from Magnus's hand snapped like a downed electrical wire between their feet. "Stop," he said. "You have no authority here, Bane," said Barnabas. "Actually, I do," said Magnus. "As the warlock representative to the Council of Shadowhunters, I have a great deal of authority. I imagine you know that." "Oh, we know entirely how in thrall to the Shadowhunters you are." Barnabas was so furious, saliva flew when he spoke. "Especially the Lightwoods." Magnus raised a lazy eyebrow. "Is this about my boyfriend? Jealous, Barnabas?" Kit cleared his throat. "Mr. Bane," he said. He'd heard of Magnus Bane, everyone had. He was probably the most famous warlock in the world. His boyfriend, Alec, helped head up the Downworlder-Shadowhunter Alliance, along with Maia Roberts and Lily Chen. "Livvy lost a lot of blood. Ty used a healing rune, but--" Magnus's face darkened with real anger. "She's fifteen years old; she's a child," he snarled. "How dare you all." "Going to report us to the Council, Magnus?" said Hypatia, speaking for the first time. She hadn't joined in the melee; she was leaning against the side of a stall, eyeing Magnus up and down. Shade seemed to have vanished; Kit had no idea where he'd gone. "It seems to me we have two choices," said Magnus. "You fight me, and you will not win, believe me, because I am very angry and I am older than any of you. And then I tell the Council. Or you let me walk away with these Nephilim children, we don't fight, and I don't report you to the Council. Thoughts?" "I pick number two," said the woman who'd thrown her bottles at the werewolves. "She's right, Barnabas," said Hypatia. "Step back." Barnabas's face was working. He turned abruptly on his heel and strode away, followed by his bodyguards. The other Downworlders began to shuffle away, disappearing into the crowd, shoulders hunched. Kit dropped down on his knees next to Ty, who had barely moved. His eyes were darting back and forth, his lips almost white; he looked as if he was in shock. "Ty," Kit said hesitantly, and put a hand on the other boy's arm. "Ty--" Ty shook him off almost without seeming to register who he was. His arms were around Livvy, his fingers pressed to her wrist; Kit realized he was taking her pulse. It was clear she was alive. Kit could see the rise and fall of her chest. But Ty kept his fingers on her wrist regardless, as if the pulse of her heartbeat steadied him. "Tiberius." It was Magnus, kneeling down, heedless of the blood and mud spattering his expensive-looking coat. He didn't reach out or try to touch Ty, just spoke in a low voice. "Tiberius. I know you can hear me. You have to help me get Livvy to the Institute. I can take care of her there." Ty looked up. He wasn't crying, but the gray in his eyes had darkened to a searing charcoal. He looked stunned. "She'll be all right?" he said. "She'll be fine." Magnus's voice was firm. Kit reached out to help Tiberius lift Livvy, and this time Ty let him do it. As they stood up, Magnus was already creating a Portal, a whirl of blue and green and rose colors, rising up against the shadows of the tents and stalls of the Market. Ty turned suddenly to Kit. "Can you take her?" he said. "Carry Livvy?" Kit nodded in astonishment. For Ty to let him carry his twin was a sign of trust that shocked him. He lifted Livvy in his arms, the scent of blood and magic in his nose. "Come on!" Magnus called. The Portal was wide open now: Kit could see the shape of the London Institute through it. Ty didn't turn. He had slammed his headphones down over his ears and was running through the empty lane of the Market. His shoulders were hunched, as if he were warding off blows that came from all sides, but his hands were steady when he reached the stall at the end, the one with the caged faeries. He began seizing the cages, yanking them open one by one. The pixies and nixies and hobgoblins inside poured out, yelping with joy at their freedom. "You! You, stop that!" shouted the stall owner, running back to prevent further destruction, but it was already too late. Ty flung the last cage toward him and it burst open, releasing a furious, clawing hobgoblin, who fastened his teeth into his former captor's shoulder. "Ty!" Kit called, and Ty ran back toward the open Portal. Knowing Ty was behind him, Kit stepped into it, holding Livvy tight, and let the whirlwind take him. Annabel came toward him silently, her cracked shoes making no sounds on the rock. Julian couldn't move. He was rooted to the spot with disbelief. He knew she was alive. He'd watched her kill Malcolm. But somehow he'd never imagined her as so tangible and distinct. So human. She seemed like someone he might meet anywhere: in a movie theater, at the Institute, at the beach. He wondered where she'd gotten the clothing from. The cloak didn't seem like something you'd find hanging on a washing line, and he doubted she had any money. The high rocks threw their shadows down as she came closer to him, pushing her hood back. "How did you find this place?" she demanded. "This house?" He held up his hands and she stopped, only a few feet from him. The night wind picked up strands of her hair and they seemed to dance. "The piskies told me where you were," she said. "Once they were Malcolm's friends, and still they hold affection for me." Was she serious? Julian couldn't tell. "You should not be here," she said. "You should not be looking for me." "I have no desire to hurt or harm you," Julian said. He wondered; if he moved closer to her, would he be able to grab her? Though the idea of using physical force to try to get the Black Volume sickened him. He realized he hadn't imagined how he was going to get it away from her. Finding her had been too much of a priority. "But I saw you kill Malcolm." "I remember this place two hundred years past," she said as if he hadn't spoken. Her accent was British, but there was an oddness to it, a sound Julian had never heard before. "It looked much the same, though there were fewer houses, and more ships in the harbor." She turned to look back at the cottage. "Malcolm built that house himself. With his own magic." "Why didn't you come inside?" Julian said. "Why did you wait for me out here?" "I am barred," she said. "Malcolm's blood is on my hands. I cannot enter his home." She turned to face Julian. "How could you have seen me kill him?" The moon had come out from behind a cloud. It lit the night up brilliantly, framing the ragged edges of the clouds with light. "I watched Malcolm raise you," Julian said. "In a scrying glass of the Seelie Queen. She wanted me to see it." "But why would the Queen want such a thing?" Her lips parted in realization. "Ah. To make you want to follow me. To make you want the Black Volume of the Dead and all its power." She reached into her cloak and drew out the book. It was black, a dense sort of black that seemed to gather shadows into itself. It was tied closed with a leather strap. The words stamped onto its cover had long faded away. "I remember nothing of my death," Annabel said softly, as Julian stared at the book in her hands. "Not how it was done, nor the time after it when I lay beneath the earth, nor when Malcolm learned of my death and disturbed my bones. I only discovered later that Malcolm had spent many years trying to raise me from the dead, but during that time none of the spells he cast worked. My body rotted and I did not wake." She turned the book over in her hands. "It was the Unseelie King who told him that the Black Volume was the key. The Unseelie King who gave him the rhyme and the spell. And it was the King who told Malcolm when Sebastian Morgenstern's attack on the Institute would come--when it would be empty. All the King asked in return was that Malcolm worked for him on spells that would weaken the Nephilim." Julian's mind raced. Malcolm hadn't mentioned the Unseelie King's part in all this when he'd told his version of the story to the Blackthorns. But that was hardly surprising. The King was far more powerful than Malcolm, and the warlock would have been reluctant to invoke his name. "In the Unseelie Lands, our powers are useless," said Julian. "Seraph blades don't work there, or witchlight or runes." "Malcolm's doing," she said. "As it is in his own Lands, so the King wishes it to be all over the world, and in Idris. Shadowhunters made powerless. He would take Alicante and rule from it. Shadowhunters would become the hunted." "I need the Black Volume, Annabel," Julian said. "To stop the King. To stop all this." She only stared at him. "Five years ago," she said, "Malcolm spilled Shadowhunter blood trying to raise me." Emma's parents, Julian thought. "It woke my mind but not my body," Annabel said. "The spell had half-worked. I was in agony, you understand, half-alive and trapped beneath the earth. I screamed my pain in silence. Malcolm could not hear me. I could not move. He thought me insensible, unhearing, yet he spoke to me nonetheless." Five years, Julian thought. For five years she had been trapped in the convergence tomb, conscious but unable to be heard, unable to speak or scream or move. Julian shuddered. "His voice filtered down into my tomb. He read me that poem, over and over. 'It was many and many a year ago.'" Her gaze was bleak. "He betrayed me while I lived, and again when I was dead. Death is a gift, you understand. The passing beyond pain and sorrow. He denied me that." "I'm sorry," Julian said. The moon had started to sink in the sky. He wondered how late it was. "Sorry," she echoed dismissively, as if the word had no meaning for her. "There will be a war," she said, "between Faerie and Shadowhunters. But that is not my concern. My concern is that you promise to no longer try to obtain the Black Volume. Let it alone, Julian Blackthorn." He exhaled. He would have lied in a moment and promised, but he suspected a promise to someone like Annabel would hold a terrifying weight. "I can't," he said. "We need the Black Volume. I cannot tell you why, but I swear it will be kept safe and out of the hands of the King." "I have told you what the book did to me," she said, and for the first time, she seemed animated, her cheeks flushed. "It has no use but evil use. You should not want it." "I won't use it for evil," Julian said. That much was true, he thought. "It cannot be used for anything else," she said. "It destroys families, people--" "My family will be destroyed if I don't have the book." Annabel paused. "Oh," she said. And then, more gently, "But think of what will be destroyed with this book out there, in the world. So much more. There are higher causes." "Not to me," said Julian. The world can hum if my family lives, he thought, and was about to say it when the cottage door flew open. Emma stood in the doorway. She was shoving her feet into unlaced boots, Cortana in her hand. Her hair was rumpled over her shoulders, but her grip on the sword was unwavering. Her gaze sought out Julian, then found Annabel; she started, stared incredulously. He saw her mouth shape Annabel's name, as Annabel threw her hood up over her head and bolted. Julian started after her, Emma only a second behind him. But Annabel was shockingly fast. She flew across the grass and heather-strewn slope to the edge of the cliff; with a last glance back, she flung herself into the air. "Annabel!" Julian raced to the cliff edge, Emma at his side. He stared down into the water, hundreds of feet below, untroubled by even a ripple. Annabel had vanished. They exploded back into the Institute, appearing in the library. It was like being dropped from a great height, and Kit staggered and fell back against the table, clawing at Livvy so he wouldn't drop her. Ty had fallen to his knees and was righting himself. Kit glanced at Livvy's face--it was gray, with an eerie yellowish tinge. "Magnus--" he gasped. The warlock, who had landed with the ease of long practice, spun around, instantly assessing the situation. "Calm down," he said, "everything's fine," and he started to take Livvy from Kit's grasp. Kit let her go with relief--someone was going to take care of this. Magnus Bane was going to take care of this. He wouldn't let Livvy die. It took Kit a moment to notice that there was already someone standing in the library. Someone he didn't know, who moved toward Magnus just as the warlock eased Livvy down onto the long table. It was a young man about Jace's age, with straight dark hair that looked as if he had slept on it and not bothered to brush it. He wore a washed-out sweater and jeans. He glared at Magnus. "You woke up the kids," he said. "Alec, we have kind of an emergency here," said Magnus. So this was Alec Lightwood. Somehow Kit had expected him to look older. "Small children who are awake are also an emergency," said Alec. "I'm just saying." "All right, move the furniture back," Magnus said to Ty and Kit. "I need some working space." He glanced sideways at Alec as the two younger boys moved chairs and small bookcases out of the way. "So where are the ldds?" Magnus was stripping off his coat. Alec held out his hand and caught the coat as Magnus tossed it to him, a practiced move that suggested he was used to the gesture. "I left them with a nice girl named Cristina. She said she likes children." "You just left our children with strangers?" "Everyone else is asleep," said Alec. "Besides, she knows lullabies. In Spanish. Rafe is in love." He glanced over at Kit again. "By the Angel, it's uncanny," he said in a sudden burst, as if he couldn't help it. Kit felt unnerved. "What's uncanny?" "He means you look like Jace," said Magnus. "Jace Herondale." "My parabatai," said Alec, with love and pride. "I know Jace," said Kit. He was looking at Ty, who was struggling to move a chair. It wasn't that it was too heavy for him, but that his hands were opening and closing at his sides, making his gestures unusually clumsy and uncoordinated. "He came out to the L.A. Institute after my--after they found out who I was." "The legendary Lost Herondale," said Magnus. "You know, I was starting to think that was a rumor Catarina made up, like the Loch Ness Monster or the Bermuda Triangle." "Catarina made up the Bermuda Triangle?" said Alec. "Don't be ridiculous, Alexander. That was Ragnor." Magnus touched Livvy's arm lightly. She cried out. Ty dropped the chair he'd been struggling with and took a ragged breath. "You're hurting her," he said. "Don't." His voice was quiet, but in it Kit could hear steel in it, and see the boy who'd held him at knifepoint in his father's house. Magnus leaned his hands on the table. "I'll try not to, Tiberius," he said. "But I may have to cause her pain to heal her." Ty seemed about to answer, just as the door flew open and Mark burst in. He caught sight of Livvy, and blanched. "Livvy. Livia!" He tried to start forward, but Alec caught at his arm. For all Alec's slenderness, he was deceptively strong. He held Mark back while blue fire sparked from Magnus's hand and he passed it down Livvy's side. The sleeve of her jacket and shirt seemed to melt away, revealing a long, ugly cut seeping yellow fluid. Mark sucked in a breath. "What's going on?" "Fight at the Shadow Market," Magnus said briefly. "Livia was cut with a piece of glass with orias root on it. Very poisonous, but curable." He moved his fingers over Livvy's arm; as he did, a bluish light seemed to glow under her skin, as if it were pulsing from the inside out. "The Shadow Market?" Mark demanded. "What the hell was Livvy doing at the Shadow Market?" Nobody answered. Kit felt as if he was shrinking inward. "What's going on?" Ty demanded. His hands were still opening at his sides, as if he were trying to shake something off his skin. His shoulders rolled back. It was as if his worry and agitation were expressing themselves through a silent music that made his nerves and muscles dance. "Is that blue light normal?" Mark said something to Alec, and Alec nodded. He released the other boy's arm, and Mark came around the table to put his hand on Ty's shoulder. Ty leaned into him, though he didn't stop moving. "Magnus is the best there is," Alec said. "Healing magic is his specialty." Alec's voice was gentle. The voice of someone who wasn't quieting his tone to keep someone calm, but who actually empathized. "Magnus cured me, once," he added. "It was demon poison; I shouldn't have lived, but I did. You can trust him." Livvy gave a sudden gasp and her back jerked; Ty put his hand to his own arm, his fingers clenching. Then her body relaxed. Color began to come back to her face, her cheeks turning from yellowish-gray to pink. Ty, too, relaxed visibly. "That's the poison gone," said Magnus matter-of-factly. "Now we have to work on the blood loss and the cut." "There are runes for both those things," said Ty. "I can put them on her." But Magnus was shaking his head. "Better not to use them--runes draw some of their strength from the bearer," he said. "If she had a parabatai, we could try pulling strength from them, but she doesn't, does she?" Ty didn't say anything. His face had gone still and completely white. "She doesn't," Kit said, realizing Ty wasn't going to say anything. "That's all right. She'll be fine," Magnus reassured them. "Might as well move her to her bedroom, though. No reason for her to sleep on a table." "I'll help you take her," Mark said. "Ty, why don't you come with us." "Alec, can you go to the infirmary?" Magnus said, as Mark went to lift his sister into his arms. Poor Livvy, Kit thought; she would hate to be dragged around like a sack of potatoes. "You'll know what I need." Alec nodded. "Take Kit with you," said Magnus. "You'll want help carrying everything." Kit found himself not minding the idea of making conversation with Alec. Alec had a comforting sort of presence--quiet, and contained. As he and Alec headed out of the room, Kit glanced back once at Ty. Kit had never had siblings, never had a mother, had only had Johnny. His father. His father who had died, and he didn't think he'd ever looked the way Ty looked now, as if the possibility of something happening to Livvy was enough to break him inside. Maybe there was something wrong with him, Kit thought as he followed Alec into the hallway. Maybe he didn't have the right kind of feelings. He'd never wondered that much about his mother, who she was: Wouldn't someone who knew how to feel properly wonder that? "So you met Jace," said Alec, scuffing his shoes along the carpet as they went. "What did you think?" "Of Jace?" Kit was puzzled. He didn't know why anyone would solicit his opinion on the head of the New York Institute. "Just making small talk." Alec had an odd half smile, as if he were keeping a number of thoughts to himself. They passed through a door marked INFIRMARY into a large room, filled with old-fashioned single metal beds. Alec went behind a counter and started rummaging. "Jace isn't much like you," said Kit. There was a weird dark patch of wall across from him, as if paint had smeared up and across it in almost the shape of a tree. "That's an understatement." Alec piled bandages on the countertop. "But it doesn't matter. Parabatai don't need to be like each other. They just need to complement each other. To work well together." Kit thought of Jace, all shining gold and confidence, and Alec, all steady, quiet ease. "And you and Jace complement each other?" "I remember when I met him," Alec said. He'd found two boxes and was dumping bandages into one, jars of powder into another. "He walked out of a Portal from Idris. He was skinny and he had bruises and he had these big eyes. He was arrogant, too. He and Isabelle used to fight." He smiled at the memory. "But to me everything about him said, 'Love me, because nobody ever has.' It was all over him, like fingerprints. "He was worried about meeting you," Alec added. "He's not used to having living blood relatives. He cared what you thought. He wanted you to like him." He glanced over at Kit. "Here, take a box." Kit's head was swimming. He thought of Jace, swaggering and amused and proud. But Alec spoke of Jace as if he saw him as a vulnerable child, someone who needed love because he'd never gotten it. "I'm no one, though," he said, taking the box full of bandages. "Why would he care what I think? I don't matter. I'm nothing." "You matter to Shadowhunters," said Alec. "You're a Herondale. That'll never be nothing." Holding Rafe in her arms, Cristina sang softly. He was small for five years old, and his rest was fitful. He squirmed and sighed in his sleep, his small brown fingers twisted into a lock of his dark hair. He reminded her a little of her own small cousins, always wanting another hug, another sweet, another song before sleep. Max, on the other hand, slept like a rock--a dark blue rock, with adorable big navy eyes and a gap-toothed grin. When Cristina, Mark, and Kieran had run down to find Alec, Magnus, and their two children in the Institute parlor, Evelyn had been there, fussing about warlocks in her house and the undesirability of being blue. Cristina hoped most adult Shadowhunters didn't react to Max like that--it would be awfully traumatic for the poor little mite. It seemed that Alec and Magnus had returned from a trip to find Diana's messages asking them for help. They had Portaled to the London Institute immediately. On hearing about the binding spell from Mark and Cristina, Magnus had headed for the local Shadow Market to scout out a spell book he hoped might break the enchantment. Rafe and Max, upon being left in a strange house with only one parent, had wailed. "Sleep," Alec had said glumly to Rafe, carrying him into a spare room. "Adorno." Cristina giggled. "That means 'ornament,'" she said. "Not 'sleep.'" Alec sighed. "I'm still learning Spanish. Magnus is the one who speaks it." Cristina smiled at Rafael, who was sniffling. She'd always sung her little cousins to sleep, just as her mother had with her; maybe Rafe would like that. "Oh, Rafaelito," she said to him, oh, little Rafael hahy. "Ya es hora de ir a dormir. Tegustaria que te cante una camion?" He nodded vigorously. "Si!" Cristina spent some time teaching Alec all the lullabies she knew while he held Max and she sat with Rafe. Not long after that, Magnus had Portaled back, and there had been a great deal of thumping and bumping from the library, and Alec had raced off, but Cristina had decided to stay where she was unless called on, because the ways of warlocks were mysterious and their charming boyfriends, too. Besides, it was good to have something as harmless as a child to distract her from her anxiety. She was sure--relatively sure--that the binding spell could be undone. But it bothered her just the same: What if it couldn't? She and Mark would be miserable forever, tied by a bond they didn't want. And where would they go? What if he wanted to return to Faerie? She couldn't possibly go with him. Thoughts of Diego nagged at her too: she'd thought she would come back from Faerie to a message from him, but there had been nothing. Could someone disappear out of your life like that twice? She sighed and leaned down to stroke Rafe's hair, singing softly. "Arrorro mi niho, arrorro mi sol, arrorro pedazo demicorazon. Hush-a-bye my baby Hush-a-bye my sun Hush-a-bye, oh piece of my heart." Alec had come in while she was singing, and was sitting on the bed beside Max, leaning against the wall. "I've heard that song before." It was Magnus, standing in the doorway. He looked tired, his cat's eyes heavily lidded. "I can't remember who was singing it." He came over and bent down to take Rafe from her. He lifted the boy in his arms, and for a moment Rafe's head lolled against his neck. Cristina wondered if this had ever happened before: a Shadowhunter with a warlock for a parent. "Sol solecito, calientame unpoquito, Por hoy, por mahana, por toda la semana," Magnus sang. Cristina looked at him in surprise. He had a nice singing voice, though she didn't know the melody. Sun, little sun, warm me a little, for the noon, for the dawning, for all the week long. "Are you all right, Magnus?" Alec asked. "Fine, and Livvy's fine. Healing. Should be back to normal tomorrow." Magnus rolled his shoulders back, stretching his muscles. "Livvy?" Cristina sat up in alarm. "What happened to Livvy?" Alec and Magnus exchanged a look. "You didn't tell her?" Magnus said in a low voice. "I didn't want to upset the kids," said Alec, "and I thought you could reassure her better 55 Cristina scrambled to her feet. "Is Livvy hurt? Does Mark know?" She was reassured by both Magnus and Alec that Livvy was fine and that yes, Mark did know, but she was already halfway out the door. She bolted down the hallway toward Mark's room. Her wrist was throbbing and aching-- she'd been ignoring it, but it flared up now as she worried. Was it pain Mark was feeling, transmitted through the connection between them, the way parabatai sometimes felt each other's agony? Or was the binding spell getting worse, more intense? His door was half-open, light spilling out from beneath it. She found him awake inside, lying on his bed. She could see the deep indentation of the binding rune like a bracelet around his left wrist. "Cristina?" He sat up. "Are you all right?" "I am not the one who was hurt," she said. "Alec and Magnus told me about Livvy." He drew his legs up, making room for her to sit on the blanket beside him. The sudden reduction of pain in her wrist made her feel a little dizzy. He told her what they had done, Kit, Livvy, and Ty: about the crystal they'd found at Blackthorn Hall, their visit to the Shadow Market and how Livvy had been injured. "I cannot help but think," he finished, "that if Julian had been here, if he hadn't left me in charge, none of it would have happened." "Julian's the one who said they could go to Blackthorn Hall. And most of us are running missions at fifteen. It's not your fault they disobeyed." "I didn't tell them not to go to the Shadow Market," he said, shivering a little. He pulled the patchwork blanket up around his shoulders, giving him the look of a sad Harlequin. "You didn't tell them not to stab each other with knives, either, because they know that," she said tartly. "The Market is off-limits. Forbidden. Although--don't be too hard on Kit. The Shadow Market is the world he knows." "I don't know how to take care of them," he said. "Flow do I tell them to obey rules when none of us do? We went to Faerie--a much greater breakage of the Law than a visit to the Shadow Market." "Maybe you should all try taking care of each other," she said. He smiled. "You're awfully wise." "Is Kieran all right?" she said. "Still awake, I think," he said. "He wanders around the Institute at night. He hasn't rested well since we came here--too much cold iron, I think. Too much city." The neck of his T-shirt was frayed and loose. She could see where the scars on his back started, the marks of old injuries, the memory of knives. The patchwork blanket had begun slipping down his shoulder. Almost absently, Cristina reached to pull it up. Her hand brushed along Mark's neck, along the bare skin where his throat met the cotton of his shirt. His skin was hot. He leaned in toward her; she could smell the pine of forests. His face was close enough to hers that she could make out the changing colors in the irises of his eyes. The rise and fall of her own breath seemed to lift her toward him. "Can you sleep here tonight?" he said hoarsely. "It will hurt less. For both of us." His inhuman eyes glittered for a moment, and she thought of what Emma had said to her, that when she looked at him sometimes, she saw wildness and freedom and the unending roads of the sky. "I can't," she whispered. "Cristina--" He rose up on his knees. It was too cloudy outside for any moonlight or starlight, but Cristina could still see him, his light hair in tangles, his eyes fixed on her. He was too close, too tangible. She knew if he touched her, she'd crumble. She wasn't even sure what that would mean, only that the idea of such total dissolution frightened her--and that she could see Kieran when she looked at Mark, like a shadow always beside him. She slid off the bed. "I'm sorry, Mark," she said, and left the room so quickly she was almost running. "Annabel seems so sad," Emma said. "So very sad." They were lying in the cottage bed, side by side. It was a lot more comfortable than beds in the Institute, which was a little ironic, considering it was Malcolm's place. Julian guessed even murderers needed regular mattresses and didn't actually sleep on platforms made of skulls. "She wanted me to leave the Black Volume alone," said Julian. He was lying on his back; they both were. Emma was in a pair of cotton pajamas she'd bought from the village shop, and Julian wore sweats and an old T-shirt. Their shoulders touched, and their feet; the bed wasn't very wide. Not that Julian would have moved away if he could have. "She said it only brings bad things." "But you don't think we should do that." "I don't think we have a choice. The book probably really is better off in the Seelie Court than anywhere in our world." He sighed. "She said she's been talking to the piskies in the area. We're going to have to text the others, see if they know any piskie-trapping secrets. Get hold of a piskie and find out what they know." "Okay." Emma's voice was fading, her eyes closing. Julian felt the same exhaustion tugging at him. It had been an incredibly long day. "You can send the message from my phone if you want." Julian hadn't been able to plug his phone in due to not having the right adapter. Things Shadowhunters didn't think about. "I don't think we should tell the others Annabel came," said Julian. "Not yet. They'll freak out, and I want to see what the piskies say first." "You have to at least tell them the Unseelie King helped Malcolm get the Black Volume," Emma said sleepily. "I'll tell them he wrote about it in his diaries," said Julian. He waited to see if Emma would object to the lie, but she was already asleep. And Julian was nearly there. Emma was here, lying beside him, the way things were supposed to be. He realized how badly he'd slept for the past few weeks without her. He wasn't sure if he'd drifted off, or for how long if he had. When his eyes fluttered open, he could see the dark glow of the fire in the hearth, nearly burned down to embers. And he could feel Emma, beside him, her arm thrown across his chest. He froze. She must have moved in her sleep. She was curled against him. He could feel her eyelashes, her soft breath, against his skin. She murmured and turned her head against his neck. Before they climbed into bed, he'd been frightened that if he touched her, he'd feel again the same willpower-smashing desire he'd felt in the Seelie Court. What he felt now was both better and worse. It was an overpowering and terrible tenderness. Though when awake Emma had a presence that made her seem tall and even imposing, she was small curled against him, and delicate enough to make his heart turn over with thoughts of how to keep the world from breaking something so fragile. He wanted to hold her forever, to protect her and keep her close. He wanted to be able to write as freely about his feelings for her as Malcolm had written about his dawning love for Annabel. You took my life apart and put it back together. She sighed softly, settling into the mattress. He wanted to trace the outline of her mouth, to draw it--it was always different, its heart shape changing with her expressions, but this expression, between sleeping and waking, half-innocent and half-knowing, caught at his soul in a new way. Malcolm's words echoed in his head. As if you have discovered a beach you have been visiting all your life is made not of sand but of diamonds, and they blind you with their beauty. Diamonds might be blinding in their beauty, but they were also the hardest and sharpest gems in the world. They could cut you or grind you down, smash and slice you apart. Malcolm, deranged with love, had not thought of that. But Julian could think of nothing else. Kit was awoken by the bang of Livvy's door. He sat up, aware he was aching all over, as Ty strode out of her bedroom. "You're on the floor," Ty said, looking at him. Kit couldn't deny it. He and Alec had come to Livvy's room once they'd finished in the infirmary. Then Alec had gone off to check on the children, and it had just been Magnus, quietly sitting with Livvy, occasionally examining her to see if she was healing. And Ty, leaning against the wall, staring unblinking at his sister. It had felt like a hospital room to which Kit shouldn't have access. So he'd gone outside, remembering how Ty had slept in front of his own door his first days in Los Angeles, and he'd curled up on the worn carpeted floor, not expecting to get much sleep. He didn't even remember passing out, but he must have. He struggled up into a sitting position. "Wait--" But Ty was walking off down the hall, as if he hadn't heard Kit at all. After a moment, Kit scrambled to his feet and followed him. He wasn't entirely sure why. He barely knew Tiberius Blackthorn, he thought, as Ty turned almost blindly and started up a set of stairs. He barely knew his sister, either. And they were Shadowhunters. And Ty wanted to form some kind of detective team with him, which was a ridiculous idea. Definitely one in which he wasn't interested at all, he told himself, as the staircase ended in a short landing in front of a worn-looking old door. And it was probably cold outside too, he thought, as Ty pushed the door open and, yes, damp chilly air swirled in. Ty disappeared into the chill and the shadows outside, and Kit followed. They were back on the roof, though it was no longer night, to Kit's surprise; it was early morning--gray and heavy, with clouds gathering over the Thames and the dome of St. Paul's. The noise of the city rose up, the pressure of millions of people going about their daily business, unaware of Shadowhunters, unaware of magic and danger. Unaware of Ty, who had gone to the railing surrounding the central part of the roof and was staring out over the city, his hands gripping the iron fleur-de-lis. "Ty." Kit went toward him, and Tiberius turned around, so his back was against the railing. His shoulders were stiff, and Kit stopped, not wanting to invade his personal space. "Are you all right?" Ty shook his head. "Cold," he said. His teeth were chattering. "I'm cold." "Then maybe we should go back downstairs," said Kit. "Inside it's warmer." "I can't." Ty's voice sounded like it was coming from a long way down deep inside him, an echo half-sunk in water. "Being in that room, I couldn't--it was--" He shook his head in frustration, as if being unable to find the words was torturing him. "Livvy's going to be fine," said Kit. "She'll be okay by tomorrow. Magnus said." "But it's my fault." Ty was pressing his back harder against the railing, but it wasn't holding him up. He slid down it until he was sitting on the ground, his knees pulled up to his chest. He was breathing hard and rocking back and forth, his hands up by his face as if to brush away cobwebs or annoying gnats. "If I was her parabatai --I wanted to go to the Scholomance, but that doesn't matter; Livvy matters--" "It's not your fault," Kit said. Ty just shook his head, hard. Kit tried frantically to remember what he'd read online about meltdowns, because he was pretty sure Ty was on his way to having one. He dropped to his knees on the damp roof--was he supposed to touch Ty, or not touch him? He could only imagine what it was like for Ty all the time: all the world rushing at him at once, blaring sounds and stabbing lights and nobody remembering to modulate their voices. And to have all the ways you usually managed that ripped away by grief or fear, leaving you exposed as a Shadowhunter going into battle without their gear. He remembered something about darkness, about pressure and weighted blankets and silence. Though he had no idea how he was going to get hold of any of those things up on top of a building. "Tell me," Kit said. Tell me what you need. "Put your arms around me," said Ty. His hands were pale blurs in the air, as if Kit were looking at a time-lapse photo. "Hold on to me." He was still rocking. After a moment, Kit put his arms around Ty, not quite knowing what else to do. It was like holding a loosed arrow: Ty felt hot and sharp in his arms, and he was vibrating with some strange emotion. After what felt like a long time he relaxed slightly. His hands touched Kit, their motion slowing, his fingers winding themselves into Kit's sweater. "Tighter," Ty said. He was hanging on to Kit as if he were a life raft, his forehead digging painfully into Kit's shoulder. He sounded desperate. "I need to feel it." Kit had never been a casual hugger, and no one had ever, that he could remember, come to him for comforting. He wasn't a comforting sort of person. He'd always assumed that. And he barely knew Ty. But then, Ty didn't do things for no reason, even if people whose brains were differently wired couldn't see his reasons immediately. Kit remembered the way Livvy rubbed Ty's hands tightly when he was stressed and thought: The pressure is a sensation; the sensation must be grounding. Calming. That made sense. So Kit found himself holding Ty harder, until Ty relaxed under the tight grip of his hands; held him more tightly than he'd ever held anyone, held him as if they'd been lost in the sea of the sky, and only holding on to each other could keep them afloat above the wreckage of London. <|title|>Chapter 20: Evermore <|startofchapter|>Diana sat in her small room above the weapons shop and flipped through the file Jia had given her. She hadn't been in this room since the end of the Dark War, but it felt comfortable and familiar--the blanket her grandmother had made folded at the foot of the bed, the first blunt wooden daggers her father had given her to practice with on the wall, her mother's shawl across the back of a chair. She wore a pair of bright red satin pajamas she'd found in an old trunk and felt amusingly dressed up. Her amusement faded quickly, though, as she examined the pages inside the cream- colored file. First was Zara's story about how she'd killed Malcolm, which had been signed off on by Samantha and Dane as witnesses. Not that Diana would have believed Samantha or her brother if they'd said the sky was blue. Zara was claiming that the Centurions had chased Malcolm away the first time he'd attacked, and that the next night she'd fearlessly patrolled the borders of the Institute until she'd found him lurking in the shadows and bested him in a one-on-one swordfight. She claimed his body had then disappeared. Malcolm was hardly a lurk-in-the-shadows type, and from what Diana had seen on the night he'd returned, his magic was still working. He'd never fight Zara with a blade when he could blast her with fire. But none of that was hard evidence that she was lying. Diana frowned, turning the pages, and then sat up straight. There was more here than just the report on Malcolm's death. There were pages and pages about Zara. Dozens of reports of her achievements. All together like this, it was an impressive package. And yet... As Diana read through, taking careful notes, a pattern started to emerge. Every success of Zara's, every triumph, took place when no one was around to witness it except those in her inner circle--Samantha, Dane, or Manuel. Often others would arrive in time to see the empty demon nest, or the evidence of a battle, but that was all. There were no reports of Zara ever being wounded or hurt in any battle. Diana thought of the scars she'd gotten through her life as a Shadowhunter and frowned more deeply. And more deeply yet when she reached Marisol Garza Solcedo's year-old report--Marisol claimed to have saved a group of mundanes from an attacking Druj demon in Portugal. She was knocked unconscious. When she awoke, she said, Zara's destruction of the Druj was being celebrated. The report had been submitted, along with a signed statement by Zara, Jessica, Samantha, Dane, and Manuel, stating that Marisol was imagining things. Zara, they said, had killed the Druj after a fierce fight; again, Zara had no wounds. She takes credit for what other people do, Diana thought. Her window rattled, wind probably. I ought to go to hed, she thought. The clock in the Gard, new since the Dark War, had rung the early hours of dawn some time ago. But she kept reading, fascinated. Zara would hang back, wait for the battle to be over, and announce the victory as her own. With her group backing her up, the Clave accepted her claims at face value. But if it could be proved that she hadn't killed Malcolm--in some way that kept Julian and the others protected--then perhaps the Cohort would be disgraced. Certainly the Dearborns' bid to seize the Los Angeles Institute would fail-- Her window rattled again. She looked up and saw Gwyn on the other side of the glass. She stood up with a yelp of surprise, sending her papers flying. Get a grip, she told herself. There was no way that the leader of the Wild Hunt was actually outside her window. She blinked, and looked again. He was still there, and as she moved toward the window, she saw that he was hovering in the air just below her sill, on the back of a massive gray horse. He wore dark brown leather, and his antlered helmet was nowhere to be seen. His expression was grave and curious. He gestured for her to open the window. Diana hesitated, then reached to undo the latch and fling up the sash. She didn't have to let him in, she reasoned. They could just talk through the window. Cool air rushed into her room, and the smell of pine and morning air. His bicolored eyes fixed on her. "My lady," he said. "I had hoped you would accompany me on a ride." Diana tucked a lock of hair behind her ear. "Why?" "For the pleasure of your company," Gwyn said. He peered at her. "I see you are richly attired in silk. Are you expecting another guest?" She shook her head, amused. Well, the pajamas were nice. "You look beautiful," he said. "I am fortunate." She supposed he wasn't lying. He couldn't lie. "You couldn't have arranged this meeting in advance?" she asked. "Sent me a message, maybe?" He looked puzzled. He had long eyelashes and a square chin--a pleasant face. A handsome face. Diana often tried not to think about those things, as they only caused trouble, but now she couldn't help it. "I only discovered you were here in Idris this dawn," he said. "But you're not allowed to be here!" She looked nervously up and down empty Flintlock Street. If anyone saw him... He grinned at that. "As long as my horse's hooves do not touch Alicante ground the alarm will not be raised." Still, she felt a bubble of tension in her chest. He was asking her on a date--she couldn't pretend otherwise. And though she wanted to go, the fear--that old fear that walked hand in hand with distrust and grief--held her back. He reached out a hand. "Come with me. The sky awaits." She looked at him. He wasn't young, but he didn't look old, either. He seemed ageless, as faeries did sometimes, and though he seemed solid and thoughtful in himself, he carried with him the promise of the air and the sky. When else will you ever have a chance to ride a faerie horse? Diana asked herself. When else will you ever fly? "You're going to be in so much trouble," she whispered, "if they find out you're here." He shrugged, hand still outstretched. "Then you had better come quickly," he said. She began to climb out the window. Breakfast was late; Kit managed to snag a few hours of sleep and a shower before wandering into the dining room to find everyone else already sitting down. Well, everyone but Evelyn. Bridget was serving tea, pinched-faced as always. Alec and Magnus each had a child on their lap, and introduced them to Kit: Max was the small, blue warlock who was spilling brown sauce down the front of Magnus's designer shirt, and Rafe was the brown-eyed child who was tearing his toast into pieces. Kieran was nowhere to be seen, which wasn't unusual at meals. Mark was seated beside Cristina, who was quietly drinking coffee. She looked neat and self-contained as always, despite the red mark on her wrist. She was an interesting mystery, Kit thought, a non- Blackthorn like himself, but inextricably tied to the Blackthorns nevertheless. And then there were Livvy and Ty. Ty had the buds of his earphones in. Livvy looked tired but entirely healthy. Only a slight shadow under Ty's eyes let Kit know he hadn't dreamed the whole of last night. "What we found at Blackthorn Hall was an aletheia crystal," Ty was saying as Kit sat down. "In the past the crystals were used by the Clave to hold evidence. The evidence of memories." There was a babble of curious voices. Cristina's rose above the others--it was an impressive talent of hers, to make herself heard without ever shouting. "Memories of what?" "A sort of trial," said Livvy. "In Idris, with the Inquisitor there. Lots of familiar families-- Herondales, Blackthorns, of course, Dearborns." "Any Lightwoods?" asked Alec. "One or two looked like they might be." Livvy frowned. "The Herondales have always been famous for their good looks," said Bridget, "but if you ask me, the Lightwoods are the more sexually charismatic of the bunch." Alec spit out his tea. Magnus seemed to be keeping a straight face, but with an effort. "I should examine the memories," Magnus said. "See if there's anyone I recognize from that era." "If Annabel is angry at Shadowhunters," said Livvy, "it seems to me she has good reason." "Many have good reason to be angry with the Nephilim," said Mark. "Malcolm did as well. But those who harmed her are dead, and their descendants blameless. That is the problem with revenge--you wind up destroying the innocent as well as the guilty." "But does she know that?" Ty frowned. "We don't understand her. We don't know what she thinks or feels." He looked anxious, the shadows under his eyes more pronounced. Kit wanted to go across the table and put his arms around Ty the way he had the night before, on the roof. He felt intensely protective of the other boy, in a way that was strange and unnerving. He'd cared about people before, mostly his father, but he'd never wanted to protect them. He wanted to kill anyone who would try to hurt Ty. It was a very peculiar feeling. "Everyone should watch the scenes in the crystal," Magnus announced. "In the meantime, Alec and I have some news." "You're getting married," said Livvy, beaming. "I love weddings." "Nope, still not getting married right now," said Alec. Kit wondered why not; they were clearly a committed couple. But it was none of his business, really. "Evelyn has left us," said Magnus. Somehow he managed to retain his sangfroid despite having a grizzling toddler on his lap. "According to Jia, the Institute is temporarily in Alec's charge." "They've been trying to lumber me with an Institute somewhere for years," said Alec. "Jia must be thrilled." "Evelyn has left us?" Dru's eyes were huge. "You mean she died?" Magnus started to cough. "Of course not. She went to visit your great-aunt Marjorie, actually, in the countryside." "Is this like when the family dog dies and they say he's living on a farm now?" Kit asked, curious. It was Alec's turn to choke. Kit strongly suspected he was laughing and trying not to show it. "Not at all," said Magnus. "She just decided she'd prefer to miss the excitement." "She is with Marjorie," Mark confirmed. "I got a fire-message about it this morning. She left Bridget, obviously, to help around the house." Kit thought of the way Evelyn had reacted to having a faerie in the Institute. He could only imagine how she'd felt about two warlocks added to the situation. She'd probably left tire marks behind when she raced out of the place. "Does that mean we don't have to eat our porridge?" said Tavvy, eyeing the grayish stuff with dislike. Magnus grinned. "In fact..." He snapped his fingers, and a bag from the Primrose Bakery appeared in the middle of the table. It tipped over, spilling muffins, croissants, and iced cakes. There was a great shout of happiness and everyone lunged for the pastries. A small war over the chocolate cookies was won by Ty, who shared them with Livvy. Max crawled onto the table, reaching for a muffin. Magnus leaned on his elbows, his cat eyes watchful. "And after breakfast," he said, "maybe we can go into the library and discuss what we know about the current situation." Everyone nodded; only Mark looked at him with a slightly narrow gaze. Kit understood-- Magnus had gotten rid of Evelyn for them, he'd brought breakfast, he'd put them in a good mood. Now he was going to see what they knew. A straightforward con. Looking at the cheerful faces around the table, for a moment Kit hated his own father, for destroying his ability to ever believe someone might be willing to give something for nothing. Kieran found the whole business of eating dinner and breakfast in a group bizarre and of little interest. Mark had been bringing him plates of food as plain as Bridget could make them--meat and rice and bread, uncooked fruit and vegetables. But Kieran only picked at them. When Mark came into Kieran's room after breakfast, the prince was looking out at the city through his window with a weary loathing. His hair had paled to blue-white, curling like the break of surf at the edge of the water around his ears and temples. "Listen to this," Kieran said. He had a book open on his lap. "The land of Faery, Where nobody gets old and godly and grave, Where nobody gets old and crafty and wise, Where nobody gets old and bitter of tongue." He glanced up at Mark with his luminous eyes. "That's ridiculous." "That's Yeats," said Mark, handing over some raspberries. "He was a very famous mundane poet." "He didn't know anything about faeries. Nobody grows bitter of tongue? Ha!" Kieran swallowed the raspberries and slid off the windowsill. "Where do we journey now?" "I was going to the library," said Mark. "There's a sort of--meeting--about what we're going to do next." "Then I would like to go to it," said Kieran. Mark's mind raced. Was there any reason Kieran shouldn't come? As far as Magnus and Alec knew, his relationship with Kieran was whatever he said it was. Nor was it any good for Kieran, or for their strained relationship, for the faerie prince to spend all his time in a small room, hating seminal Irish poets. "Well," Mark said. "If you're sure." When they walked into the library, Magnus was examining the aletheia crystal while the others tried to fill him in on what had been going on before he'd arrived. The warlock was lying full-length on one of the tables, holding the crystal delicately above him. Cristina, Ty, Livvy, and Dru were seated around the long library table. Alec was sitting on the floor of the room with three children clustered around him: his own two boys, and Tavvy, who was delighted to have someone to play with. The seven-year-old was explaining to Max and Rafe how he made towns and cities out of books, showing them how you could make tunnels with books splayed open on their faces for trains to go through. Magnus gestured Mark over to look into the aletheia crystal, which was glowing with an odd light. The sounds in the room around him faded as Mark watched the trial, saw Annabel beg and protest, saw the Blackthorns doom her to her fate. He felt chilled all over when he finally looked away. It took several moments for the library to come back into focus. To Mark's surprise, Kieran had picked up Max and was holding him in the air, obviously delighted by his blue skin and the buds of his horns. Max stuck his hand into Kieran's wavy hair and pulled. Kieran just laughed. "That's right, it changes color, little nixie-like warlock," he said. "Look." And his hair went from blue-black to bright blue in an instant. Max giggled. "I didn't know you could do that on purpose," said Mark, who had always thought of Kieran's hair as a reflection of his moods, uncontrollable as the tides. "You don't know a lot of things about me, Mark Blackthorn," Kieran said, setting Max down. Alec and Magnus had exchanged a look at that, the sort of look that made Mark feel as if they had reached a silent and agreed-upon consensus about his relationship with Kieran. "So," Magnus said, looking at Kieran with some interest. "You're the son of the Unseelie King?" Kieran had what Mark thought of as his Court face on, blank and superior as befitted a prince. "And you are the warlock Magnus Bane." "Quite," Magnus said. "Although that was an easy guess, since there's one of me and fifty of you." Ty looked puzzled. "Fifty sons of the Unseelie King," explained Livvy. "I think that was a joke." "Not one of my best," said Magnus to Kieran. "I apologize--I'm not a big fan of your father." "My father does not have fans." Kieran leaned against the edge of the table. "He has subjects. And enemies." "And sons." "His sons are his enemies," said Kieran, without inflection. Magnus looked at him with a flicker of extra interest. "All right," he said, sitting up. "Diana explained some of this to us, but it's more complicated than I thought. Annabel Blackthorn, who was brought back from the dead by Malcolm, who was sort of dead before but is now very definitely dead, has the Black Volume. And the Seelie Queen wants it?" "She does," said Mark. "She was very clear about that." "And she made you a deal," Alec said, from the floor. "She always makes a deal." "If we give her the Black Volume, she will use it against the Unseelie King," said Mark, and hesitated, you can trust magnus and alec, Julian had texted earlier, tell them anything. "She has sworn not to try to use it to harm us. In fact, she has promised aid to us. She made Kieran her messenger. He'll testify in front of the Council about the Unseelie King's plans to make war on Alicante. Once the Queen has the Black Volume, she will authorize her Seelie soldiers to fight alongside Shadowhunters against the King--but the Clave will have to end all laws that forbid cooperation with faeries if they want her help." "Which they will," said Magnus. "Fighting a war against Faerie would be much easier with faeries on your side." Mark nodded. "We are hoping not just to defeat the King, but also to crush the Cohort and end the Cold Peace." "Ah, the Cohort," said Magnus, exchanging a look with Alec. "We know them well. Horace Dearborn and his daughter, Zara." "Horace?" Mark was startled. "Sadly," said Magnus, "that is his name. Hence his life of evil." "Not that the Dearborns are all of it," said Alec. "Plenty of bigots in the Clave, happy to gather under the umbrella of tossing out the Downworlders and returning the Clave to its former glory." "Glory?" Kieran raised an eyebrow. "Do they mean the time of freely killing Downworlders? When our blood ran in the streets and their houses were stuffed with the spoils of their one-sided war?" "Yes," said Magnus, "though they wouldn't describe it that way." "Heading up the Alliance, we've heard more than a little about the Cohort," said Alec. "Their pushes to limit warlocks' use of their magic, to centralize blood supply for vampires so it can be monitored by the Clave--those have not gone unnoticed." "They must not be allowed to get their hands on an Institute," said Magnus. "That could be potentially disastrous." He sighed and swung his legs over the side of the table. "I understand we must give the Black Volume to the Queen. But I don't like it, especially since it seems doubly important here." "You mean because Annabel and Malcolm stole it from the Cornwall Institute," said Ty. "And then Malcolm stole it again, from the Institute in Los Angeles." "The first time they were going to trade it to someone who they thought could protect them from the Clave," said Livvy. "The second time was with the Unseelie King's help. At least, according to Emma and Jules." "And how did they find that out?" asked Magnus. "It was in one of the books they found," said Cristina. "A diary. It explains why we found an Unseelie Court glove at the ruins of Malcolm's house. He must have met with the King or one of his sons there." "Odd thing to write in a diary," Magnus muttered. '"Traitorous plans with the Unseelie King afoot today, what ho.'" "Odder that Malcolm disappeared from the Silent City after the first theft," said Mark, "and left Annabel to take the blame and the punishment." "Why odd?" said Livvy. "He was a terrible person." "But he did love Annabel," Cristina said. "Everything he did, the crimes, the murders, all his choices were made for love of her. And when he found out she hadn't become an Iron Sister, but had been murdered by her family, he went to the King of Faeries and asked for help in bringing her back. Don't you remember?" Mark did remember, the story in the old book Tavvy had found, which had turned out to be true. "Which explains why Malcolm broke into the Los Angeles Institute to get the book five years ago," he said. "To bring Annabel back. But what did Malcolm want it for, two hundred years ago? Who was he planning to trade it to? Most necromancers couldn't help him with protection. And if it was a warlock, it would have to have been one stronger than Malcolm himself." "'Fade's powerful ally,"' Ty said, quoting the scene in the crystal. "We don't think it could have been the Unseelie King?" Livvy said. "Both times?" "The Unseelie King didn't hate Shadowhunters in 1812," said Magnus. "At least, not that much." "And Malcolm told Emma that when he went to the Unseelie King after he found out that Annabel wasn't dead, he thought the King might kill him, because he disliked warlocks," said Cristina. "He wouldn't have a reason to dislike warlocks if he'd worked with Malcolm before, would he?" Magnus stood up. "All right, enough guesswork," he said. "We have two duties to carry out today. First, we shouldn't lose sight of the binding spell on Mark and Cristina. It's more than just a nuisance, it's a danger to them both." Mark couldn't help glancing at Cristina. She was looking down at the table, not at him. He remembered the night before, the warmth of her body beside him in bed, her breath in his ear. He came back to reality with a start, realizing that a discussion of where they were going to get the ingredients for an anti-binding spell was underway. "Given what happened at the Shadow Market yesterday," Magnus added, "none of us will be welcomed back there again. There is, however, a shop here in London that sells what I need. If I give you the address, can Kit, Ty, and Livvy find it?" Livvy and Ty clamored their agreement, clearly thrilled to have a mission. Kit was quieter, but the corner of his mouth quirked up. Somehow, this youngest Herondale had become so attached to the twins, even Magnus thought of them as a team. "Do you really think it's wise for them to go?" Mark interrupted. "After what happened yesterday, with them sloping off to the Shadow Market and practically getting Livvy killed?" "But, Mark--" Ty protested. "Well," said Magnus, "you and Cristina should stay inside the Institute. Binding spells are dangerous, and you shouldn't be too far away from each other. Alec's the Institute head; he should stay here, and anyway--the owner of the shop has a certain, let's say, history with me. Better I don't go." "I could go," said Dru, in a small voice. "Not by yourself, Dru," said Mark. "And these three"--he indicated Kit, Ty, and Livvy --"will just get you in trouble." "I can put a tracking spell on one of them," said Magnus. "If they wander off the path they're supposed to follow, it'll make an awful noise mundanes can hear." "Delightful," said Mark as the twins protested. Kit didn't say anything--he rarely complained. Mark suspected he was silently plotting to get even instead, possibly with everyone he'd ever met. Magnus examined a large blue ring on his finger. "We'll do library research. More about the history of the Black Volume. We don't know who created it, but perhaps who owned it in the past, what it was used for, anything that might point to who Malcolm was working with in 1812." "And remember what Julian and Emma asked us for help with," said Cristina, tapping the phone in her pocket. "It should only take a few minutes to look it up." Mark couldn't help staring at her. She was tucking her dark hair behind her ears, and as she did, the sleeve of her sweater slipped down and he saw the red mark on her wrist. He wanted to go to her, to kiss the mark, to take her pain onto himself. He looked away from her, but not before he caught the edge of a glance from Kieran. Ty and Livvy and Kit were getting out of their chairs, excitedly chattering, eager to go on their trip. Dru was sitting with her arms crossed. And Magnus was looking between Cristina, Mark, and Kieran thoughtfully, his cat eyes slow and considering. "We shouldn't need to look it up at all," Magnus said. "We have a primary source right here. Kieran, what do you know about catching piskies?" Emma woke late in the morning, surrounded by warmth. Light was breaking through the unshaded windows and making patterns on the walls like dancing waves. Through the window she could see flashes of blue sky and blue water: a holiday view. She yawned, stretched--and went still as she realized why she was so warm. She and Julian had somehow wrapped themselves around each other during the night. Emma froze in horror. Her left arm was thrown across Julian's body, but she couldn't just remove it. He had turned toward her, his own arms curved around her back, securing her. Her cheek brushed the smooth skin of his collarbone. Their legs were tangled together as well, her foot resting on his ankle. She began to slowly detangle herself. Oh God. If Julian woke up it would be so awkward, and everything had been going so well. Their conversation on the train--finding the cottage --talking about Annabel--everything had been comfortable. She didn't want to lose that, not now. She edged sideways, slipping her fingers out of his--closer to the edge of the bed--and went over the side with an ungainly tumble. She landed with a thump and a scream that woke Julian, who peered over the side of the bed in confusion. "Why are you on the floor?" "I've heard rolling out of bed in the morning helps you build up resistance to surprise attacks," Emma said, lying sprawled on the hardwood. "Ohyeah?" He sat up and rubbed his eyes. "What does screaming 'holy crap!' do?" "That part's optional," she said. She got to her feet with as much dignity as she could muster. "So," she said. "What's for breakfast?" He grinned his low-key grin and stretched. She didn't look at where his shirt rode up. There was no reason to sail down Sexy Thoughts River to the Sea of Perversion when it wasn't going to go anywhere. "You hungry?" "When am I not hungry?" She went over to the table and rooted in her bag for her phone. Several texts from Cristina. Most were about how Cristina was FINE and Emma had NOTHING to worry about and she should stop texting because MAGNUS was going to fix the BINDING SPELL. Emma sent her a worry face and scrolled down. "Any word on piskie-catching techniques?" Julian asked. "Not yet." Julian didn't say anything. Emma stripped down to her boy shorts and tank top. She saw Julian glance away from her, though it wasn't anything he'd never seen before--her clothes covered more than a bikini. She grabbed up her towel and soap. "I'm going to shower." Maybe she was imagining his reaction. He just nodded and went over to the kitchen, firing up the stove. "No pancakes," he said. "They don't have the right stuff to make them." "Surprise me," Emma said, and headed to the bathroom. When she emerged fifteen minutes later, scrubbed clean, her hair tied into two damp braids that dripped onto her T- shirt, Julian had set the table with breakfast--toast, eggs, hot chocolate for her and coffee for him. She slid gratefully onto a chair. "You smell like eucalyptus," he said, handing her a fork. "There's eucalyptus shower gel in the bathroom." Emma took a bite of eggs. "Malcolm's, I guess." She paused. "I've never really thought of serial killers as having shower gel." "No one likes a filthy warlock," said Julian. Emma winked. "Some might disagree." "No comment," Julian said, spreading peanut butter and Nutella on his toast. "We got a reply to our question." He held up her phone. "Instructions on how to catch piskies. From Mark, but probably really from Kieran. So first, breakfast, and afterward--piskie hunting." "I am so ready to hunt down those tiny adorable creatures and give them what for," said Emma. "SO READY." "Emma..." "I may even tie bows on their heads." "We have to interrogate them." "Can I get a selfie with one of them first?" "Eat your toast, Emma." Everything sucked, Dru thought. She was lying under the desk in the parlor, arms crossed behind her head. A few feet above her she could see where a message, blurred over time and the years, had been scratched into the wood. It was quiet in the room, only the clock ticking. The quiet was both a reminder of how lonely she was, and a relief. No one was telling her to go take care of Tavvy, or asking her if she'd play demons and Shadowhunters for the millionth time. No one was demanding she deliver messages or ferry papers back and forth in the library. No one was talking over her, and not listening. No one was telling her she was too young. In Dru's opinion, age was a matter of maturity, not years, and she was plenty mature. She'd been eight years old when she'd defended her little brother's crib with a sword. She'd been eight when she'd seen Julian kill the creature that wore her father's face, when she'd run through the capital city of Idris as it fell apart in flames and blood. And she'd stayed calm only a few days ago when Livvy had come to tell her that Uncle Arthur had never run the Institute; it had always been Julian. She'd been very matter-of-fact about it, as if it were no big deal, and she'd glossed over the fact that Diana hadn't even bothered to invite Dru to the meeting where she'd apparently broken this news. As far as Livvy was concerned, it seemed, the news was useful primarily for guilting Dru into further babysitting. It wasn't so much that she hated looking after Tavvy. She didn't. It was more that she felt she deserved some credit when she made an effort. Not to mention, she'd put up with Great- Aunt Marjorie calling her fat for two months over the summer, and she hadn't murdered her, which in Dru's opinion was an epic sign of maturity and self-restraint. She glanced down at her own round body and sighed. She had never been thin. Most Shadowhunters were--working out for fourteen hours a day tended to have that effect--but she had always been curved and rounded no matter what she did. She was strong and muscular, her body was fit and capable, but she'd always have the hips, breasts, and softness that she did. She was resigned to it. Unfortunately, the Great-Aunt Marjories of the world weren't. There was a clunk. Something in the room had fallen. Dru froze. Was someone else in here with her? She heard a soft voice swearing--not in English, but in Spanish. It couldn't be Cristina, though. Cristina never swore, and besides, the voice was masculine. Diego? Her crush-harboring heart skipped a beat, and she popped up from behind the desk. A yelp of shock burst from her. The other person in the room also yelped, and sat down hard on the arm of the chair. It wasn't Diego. It was a Shadowhunter boy about Julian's age, tall and rangy, with a shock of black hair that contrasted with his brown skin. He was covered in Marks, and not just Marks but tattoos, too--words ran up and down his forearms and snaked across his collarbone. "What--what's going on?" Dru demanded, brushing dust bunnies out of her hair. "Who are you? What are you doing here?" She thought about screaming. Any Shadowhunter could come into any Institute, of course, but usually they at least rang the bell. The boy looked alarmed. He held up a hand as if to forestall her, and she saw the gleam of the ring on his finger, carved with a pattern of roses. "I--" he began. "Oh, you're Jaime," she said, relief going through her in a whoosh. "Diego's brother, Jaime." The boy's face clouded. "You know my brother?" He had a slight accent, more noticeable than Diego's or Cristina's. It lent a richness to the texture of his voice. "Sort of," Dru said, and cleared her throat. "I live in the Los Angeles Institute." "One of the Blackthorns?" "I'm Drusilla." She stuck out her hand. "Drusilla Blackthorn. Call me Dru." He gave a dry sort of chuckle and shook her hand. His was warm. "A pretty name for a pretty girl." Dru felt herself blush. Jaime wasn't as perfectly handsome as Perfect Diego--his nose was a little too big, his mouth too wide and mobile--but his eyes were a brilliant sparkling brown, his lashes wickedly long and black. And there was something about him, a sort of energy that Diego didn't have, handsome as he was. "Cristina must have told you terrible things about me," he said. She shook her head, drawing her hand back. "She hasn't said much about you to me at all." Cristina wouldn't have, Dru thought. She wouldn't think of Dru as old enough to confide in, to share her secrets with. Dru only knew what the other girls had dropped in casual conversation. Not that she'd admit that to Jaime. "That's very disappointing," he said. "If I were her, I wouldn't be able to stop talking about me." His eyes crinkled at the corners. "Do you want to sit down?" Feeling slightly flustered, Dru sat beside him. "I'm going to confide in you," he said. It seemed like an announcement, as if he'd made up his mind on the spot and felt it was important to publicize as soon as possible. "Really?" Dru wasn't sure anyone had ever confided in her before. Most of her siblings considered her too young, and Tavvy had no secrets. "I came here to see Cristina, but she can't know I'm here quite yet. I need to communicate with my brother first." "Is Diego all right?" Dru said. "The last time I saw him--I mean, I heard he was all right after the fight with Malcolm, but I haven't seen him or heard from him, and he and Cristina 55 She clammed up. He laughed softly. "It's all right, I know. Elios terminaron." "They broke up," she translated. "Yes." He looked surprised. "You speak Spanish?" "I'm learning it. I'd like to go to the Mexico City Institute for my travel year, or maybe to Argentina to help rebuild." She saw his long eyelashes sweep down as he winked. "Not eighteen yet, then?" he said. "It's all right. Neither am I." Not even close. But Drusilla just smiled nervously. "What were you going to confide?" "I'm in hiding. I can't tell you why, only that it's important. Please do not tell anyone I'm here until I can talk to Cristina." "You haven't committed a crime or something, have you?" He didn't laugh. "If I said no, but I might know who did, would you believe me?" He was watching her intently. She probably shouldn't help him, she thought. After all, she didn't know him, and from the few things Diego had said about him, it had been clear he thought Jaime was trouble. On the other hand, here was someone willing to trust her, to put their plans and safety in her hands rather than shutting her out because she was too young, or because she should be looking after Tavvy. She exhaled and met Jaime's eyes. "All right," she said. "How were you planning on not being seen until you can talk to Cristina?" His smile was blinding. She wondered how she'd ever thought he wasn't as good-looking as Diego. "That's where you can help me," he said. Having climbed up the side of the cottage and onto the roof, Emma reached out to help Julian up after her. He declined the hand, though, flipping himself easily up onto the shingled surface. The roof of Malcolm's cottage was tilted at a slight grade, overhanging the front and back of the house. Emma walked down to the edge of the roof where it protruded over the front door. From here, the trap was visible. Mark had told them what bait was best: Piskies loved milk and bread and honey. They also loved dead mice, but Emma was unwilling to go that far. She liked mice, despite Church's deep-seated antagonism toward them. "And now we wait," Julian said, sitting down on the edge of the roof. The bowls of milk and honey and the plate of bread were out, shining temptingly on top of a pile of leaves near the path to the door. Emma sat down beside Jules. The sky was cloudless blue, stretching away to where it met the darker sea on the horizon. Slow mackerel boats traced white patterns on the sea's surface, and the dull booming roar of the waves was a soft counterpoint to the warm wind. She couldn't help but be reminded of all the times she and Jules had sat on the roof of the Institute, talking and looking at the ocean. An entirely different shore, perhaps, but all seas were connected. "I'm sure there's some kind of law about not trapping piskies without permission from the Clave," said Emma. "Lex media, lex nulla," said Julian with a regretful wave of his hand. It was the Blackthorn family motto: A bad law is no law. "I wonder what other family mottoes are," Emma mused. "Do you know any?" "The Lightwood family motto is 'We mean well.'" "Very funny." Julian looked over at her. "No, really, it actually is." "Seriously? So what's the Herondale family motto? 'Chiseled but angsty'?" He shrugged. 'If you don't know what your last name is, it's probably Herondale'?" Emma burst out laughing. "What about Carstairs?" she asked, tapping Cortana. "'We have a sword'? 'Blunt instruments are for losers'?" "Morgenstern," offered Julian. "'When in doubt, start a war'?" "How about 'Has even one of us ever been any good, like ever, seriously'?" "Seems long," said Julian. "And kind of on the nose." They were both giggling almost too hard to talk. Emma bent forward--and gave a gasp, which combined with the giggle into a sort of cough. She slapped her hand over her mouth. "Piskies!" she whispered through her fingers, and pointed. Julian moved soundlessly to the edge of the roof, Emma beside him. Standing near their trap were a group of scrawny, pallid figures dressed in rags. They had near-translucent skin, pale hair like straw, and bare feet. Huge black pupilless eyes stared from faces as delicate as china. They looked exactly like the drawings on the wall of the inn where they'd eaten the day before. She hadn't seen a single one in Faerie--indeed, it seemed true that they had been exiled to the mundane world. Without a word, they fell on the dishes of bread, milk, and honey--and the ground gave way under them. The frail construction of branches and leaves Emma had laid over the mouth of the pit Julian had dug fell away, and the piskies tumbled into their trap. Gwyn made no attempt at small talk as his horse soared through the air over Alicante and then the woods of Brocelind Forest. Diana was grateful for it. With the wind in her hair, cool and soft, and the forest spread out below her in deep green shadow, she felt freer than she had in what seemed like a long time. Talking would have been a distraction. Dawn gave way to daylight as she watched the world rushing by under her: the sudden flash of water, the graceful shapes of fir trees and white pine. When Gwyn pointed the horse's head downward, and it began to descend, she felt a pang of disappointment and a sudden flash of kinship with Mark. No wonder he had missed the Hunt; no wonder that even when he was back with his family, he had yearned for the sky. They landed in a small clearing between linden trees. Gwyn slid from the horse's back and offered Diana his hand to clamber down to the ground: The thick green moss was soft on her bare feet. She wandered among the white flowers and admired the blue sky while he spread out a linen cloth and food unpacked from his saddlebag. She couldn't quite hold back the urge to laugh--here she was, Diana Wrayburn, of the law-abiding and respectable Wrayburn family, about to have a picnic with the leader of the Wild Hunt. "Come," he said, when he was done and seated on the ground. His horse had wandered off to crop grass at the edge of the clearing. "You must be hungry." To Diana's surprise, she found she was--and hungrier when she tasted the food: delicious fruit, cured meat, thick bread and honey, and glasses of wine that tasted the way rubies looked. Maybe it was the wine, but she found that Gwyn, despite his quiet nature, was easy to talk to. He asked her about herself, though not her past; her passions instead, her interests and her dreams. She found herself telling him of her love for teaching, how she wished to teach at the Academy someday. He asked her about the Blackthorns, and how Mark was settling in, and nodded gravely at her answers. He was not beautiful in the manner of many faeries, but she found his face more pleasing for it. His hair was thick and brown, his hands wide and capable and strong. There were scars on his skin--at his neck and chest, and on the backs of his palms--but that made her think of her own scars and Shadowhunting. It was comforting in its familiarity. "Why are there no women in the Wild Hunt?" she asked. It was something she had always wondered. "Women are too savage," he said with a grin. "We reap the dead. It was discovered that when Rhiannon's Ladies ran with the Hunt, they were unwilling to wait until the dead were dead." Diana laughed. "Rhiannon. The name is familiar." "The women left the hunt and became Adar Rhiannon. The Birds of Rhiannon. Some call them 'Valkyrie.'" She smiled at him sadly. "Faerie can be so lovely," she said. "And yet also terrible." "You are thinking of Mark?" "Mark loves his family," she said. "And they are happy to have him back. But he does miss the Hunt. Which is hard to understand sometimes. When he came to us, he was so scarred, in body and mind." "Many Shadowhunters are scarred," he said. "That does not mean they no longer wish to be Shadowhunters." "I'm not sure it's the same." "I am not sure it is so different." He leaned back against a large gray boulder. "Mark was a fine Hunter, but his heart was not in it. It is not the Hunt he misses, but the freedom and the open sky, and perhaps Kieran." "You knew they had fought," said Diana. "But when you came to us, you were so sure Mark would save him." "Shadowhunters desire to save everyone. And more so when there is love." "You think Mark still loves Kieran?" "I think you cannot root out love entirely. I think where there has been love, there will always be embers, as the remains of a bonfire outlast the flame." "But they die eventually. They become ashes." Gwyn sat forward. His eyes, blue and black, were grave on hers. "Have you ever loved?" She shook her head. She could feel the shaking all through her nerves--the anticipation, and the fear. "Not like that." She should tell him why, she thought. But the words didn't come. "That is a shame," he said. "I think to be loved by you would be a tremendous honor." "You barely know me at all," Diana said. I shouldn't he affected hy his words. I shouldn't want this. But she did, in a way she had tried to bury long ago. "I saw who you are in your eyes the night I came to the Institute," said Gwyn. "Your bravery." "Bravery," echoed Diana. "The kind that kills demons, yes. Yet there are many kinds of bravery." His deep eyes flashed. "Diana--" But she was on her feet, walking to the edge of the glade, more for the relief of movement than anything else. Gwyn's horse whinnied as she neared it, backing away. "Be careful," Gwyn said. He had risen, but was not following her. "My Wild Hunt horses can be uneasy around women. They have little experience with them." Diana paused for a moment, then stepped around the horse, giving it a wide berth. As she neared the edge of the wood, she caught a flash of something pale out of the corner of her eye. She moved closer, realizing suddenly how vulnerable she was, here in the open without her weapons, wearing only pajamas. How had she agreed to this? What had Gwyn said to convince her? I saw who you are. She pushed the words to the back of her mind, reaching a hand out to steady herself on the slender trunk of a linden. Her eyes saw before her mind could process: a bizarre sight, a circle of blasted nothingness in the center of Brocelind. Land like ash, trees burned to stumps, as if acid had charred away everything living. "By the Angel," she whispered. "It is blight." Gwyn spoke from behind her, his big shoulders taut with tension, his jaw set. "I have seen this before only in Faerie. It is the mark of a great dark magic." There were burned places, white as ash, like the surface of the moon. Diana gripped the tree trunk harder. "Take me back," she said. "I need to return to Alicante." <|title|>Chapter 21: The Eye Unclosed <|startofchapter|>Mark sat on the edge of his bed, examining his wrist. The wound that wrapped it appeared darker, crusted with blood at the edges, and the bruises that radiated out from it shaded from deep red to purple. "Let me bandage it," Kieran said. He sat on the nightstand, his feet half pulled up under him. His hair was tangled and he was barefoot. It looked as if a wild creature had alighted on some piece of civilization: a hawk balancing on the head of a statue. "At least let me do that for you." "Bandaging it won't help," Mark said. "Like Magnus said--it won't heal until the spell's off." "Then do it for me. I cannot bear looking at it." Mark looked at Kieran in surprise. In the Wild Hunt, they had seen their fair share of injuries and blood, and Kieran had never been squeamish. "There are bandages in there." Mark indicated the drawer of the nightstand. He watched as Kieran hopped down and retrieved what he needed, then returned to the bed and to him. Kieran sat down and took Mark's wrist. His hands were clever and capable, blunt-nailed, calloused from years of fighting and riding. (Cristina's hands were calloused, too, but her wrists and fingertips were smooth and soft. Mark remembered the feel of them against his cheek in the faerie grove.) "You are so distant, Mark," Kieran said. "Further from me now than you were when I was in Faerie and you were in the human world." Mark looked steadfastly at his wrist, now wrapped in a bracelet of bandage. Kieran tied the knot expertly and set the box aside. "You can't stay here forever, Kier," Mark said. "And when you go, we will be separated. I can't not think about that." Kieran gave a soft, impatient noise and flopped down on the bed, among the sheets. The blankets were already flung onto the floor. With his black hair tangled against the white linen, his body sprawled out with no regard for human modesty--his shirt had ridden up to the bottom of his rib cage, and his legs were flung wide apart--Kieran looked even more of a wild creature. "Come with me, then," he said. "Stay with me. I saw the look on your face when you saw the horses of the Hunt. You would do anything to ride again." Suddenly furious, Mark leaned down over him. "Not anything," he said. His voice throbbed with low anger. Kieran gave a slight hiss. He caught at Mark's shirt. "There," he said. "Be angry with me, Mark Blackthorn. Shout at me. Feel something." Mark stayed where he was, frozen, just above Kieran. "You think I don't feel?" he said, incredulously. Something flickered in Kieran's eyes. "Put your hands on me," he said, and Mark did, feeling helpless to stop himself. Kieran clutched at the sheets as Mark touched him, pulling at his shirt, snapping the buttons. He moved his hands over Kieran's body, as he had done on countless nights before, and a slow flame began in his own chest, the memory of desire becoming the immediate present. It burned in him: a lambent, sorrowful heat, like a signal fire on a distant hill. Kieran's shirt came up and over his head and his arms were tangled in it, so he reached for Mark with his legs, pulling him in, holding him with his knees. Kieran lifted up his mouth to Mark's, and he tasted like the sweet ice of polar expanses under skies streaked with the northern lights. Mark couldn't stop his hands: The shape of Kieran's shoulder was like the rise of hills, his hair soft and dark as clouds; his eyes were stars and his body moved under Mark's like the rush of a waterfall no human eye had ever seen. He was starlight and strangeness and freedom. He was a hundred arrows loosed from a hundred bows at the same time. And Mark was lost; he was falling through dark skies, silvered with the diamond dust of stars. He was tangling his legs with Kieran's, his hands were in Kieran's hair, they were hurtling through mist over green pastures, they were riding a fire-shod horse over deserts where sand rose up in clouds of gold. He cried out, and then Kieran was rushing away from him as if he had been lifted up off the bed--it was all rushing away, and Mark opened his eyes and he was in the library. He had fallen asleep, head on his arms, face against the wood of the table. He bolted upright with a gasp and saw Kieran, sitting in the embrasure of the windowsill, looking at him. The library was otherwise empty, thank the Angel. No one was there except them. Mark's hand was throbbing. He must have struck it against the edge of the table; the sides of his fingers were already starting to swell. "A pity," said Kieran, looking at Mark's hand thoughtfully. "Or you wouldn't have woken up." "Where is everyone?" Mark said. He swallowed against the dryness in his throat. "Some have gone to find ingredients to dissolve the binding spell," said Kieran. "The children became restive, and Cristina went with them and Magnus's lover." "You mean Alec," said Mark. "His name is Alec." Kieran shrugged. "As for Magnus, he went to something called an Internet cafe to make printings of Emma and Julian's messages. We were left to do research, but you promptly fell asleep." Mark chewed his lower lip. His body could still feel Kieran's, though he knew Kieran hadn't touched him. He knew it, but he had to ask anyway, despite dreading the answer. "And you made me dream," he said. It wasn't the first time Kieran had ever done that: He had given Mark pleasant dreams a few times when he could not sleep during the nights of the Hunt. It was a faerie gift. But this was different. "Yes," Kieran said. There were white threads in his dark hair, like lines of ore running through a mine shaft. "Why?" Mark said. Anger was gathering in his veins. He felt it like a pressure in his chest. They'd had terrific fights while they were in the Hunt. The screaming sort you had when everything in the world seemed to be at stake because the other person was all you had. Mark remembered pushing Kieran partway down a glacier and then flinging himself after: catching him as they both rolled into a snowbank, gripping each other in the cold with wet, frozen fingers that slipped and slid on their skin. The problem was that fights with Kieran usually led to kissing, and that, Mark felt, was not helpful. It probably wasn't all that healthy, either. "Because you are not truthful with me. Your heart is closed and shrouded. I cannot see it," Kieran said. "I thought, in dreams, perhaps..." "You think I'm lying to you?" Mark felt his heart give a thump of dread. "I think you are lying to yourself," said Kieran. "You were not born for this life, of politics and plots and lies. Your brother is. Julian thrives at it. But you do not wish to make these kinds of bargains, where you ruin your soul to serve a greater good. You are kinder than that." Mark let his head fall against the chair back. If only he could tell himself Kieran was wrong, but he wasn't. Mark loathed himself every moment of every day for lying to Kieran, even if the lie was in a good cause. Kieran said, "Your brother would burn the world if it saved his family. Some are like that. But you are not." "I understand you cannot believe this matters to me as much as it does, Kieran," Mark said. "But it is the truth." "Remember," Kieran whispered. Even now, in the mundane world, there was something proud and arrogant about Kieran's gestures, his voice. Despite the jeans Mark had lent him, he looked as if he should be at the head of a faerie army, flinging out his arm in sweeping command. "Remember that none of it is real." And Mark did remember. He remembered a note written on parchment, wrapped in the shell of an acorn. The first message Kieran had sent him after he'd left the Hunt. "It is real to me," Mark said. "All of this is real to me." He leaned forward. "I need to know you are here in this with me, Kieran." "What does that mean?" "It means no more anger," said Mark. "It means no more sending me dreams. I needed you for so long, Kieran. I needed you so much, and that kind of need, it bends you and warps you. It makes you desperate. It makes you not choose." Kieran had frozen. "You're saying you didn't choose me?" "I'm saying the Wild Hunt chose us. I'm saying if you are finding strangeness in me, and distance, it is because I cannot help but ask myself, over and over: In another world, in another situation, would we still have chosen each other?" He looked hard at the other boy. "You are a gentry prince. And I am half-Nephilim, worse than the lowest chaff, tainted in blood and lineage." "Mark." "I am saying the choices we make in captivity are not always the choices we make in freedom. And thus we question them. We cannot help it." "It is different for me," said Kieran. "After this, I return to the Hunt. You are the one with freedom." "I will not let you be forced back into the Hunt if you do not wish it." Kieran's eyes softened. In that moment, Mark thought he would have promised him anything, no matter how rash. "I would like us both to have freedom," Mark said. "To laugh, to enjoy ourselves together, to love in the ordinary way. You are free here with me, and perhaps we could take that chance, that time." "Very well," Kieran said, after a long pause. "I will stay with you. And I will help you with your dull books." He smiled. "I am in this with you, Mark, if that is how we will learn what we mean to each other." "Thank you," Mark said. Kieran, like most faeries, had no use for "you're welcome"; instead he slid off the windowsill and went in search of a book on the shelves. Mark stared after him. He had said nothing to Kieran that was not true, and yet he felt as leaden inside as if every word he had spoken was a lie. The sky over London was cloudless and blue and beautiful. The water of the Thames, parting on either side of the boat, was almost blue. Sort of the color of tea, Kit thought, if you put blue ink into it. The place they were going--Ty had the address--was on Gill Street, Magnus had explained, in Limehouse. "Used to be a terrible neighborhood," he said. "Full of opium dens and gambling houses. God, it was fun back then." Mark had looked immediately panicked. "Don't worry," Magnus had added. "It's very dull now. All fancy condos and gastropubs. Very safe." Julian would have forbidden this excursion, Kit was fairly sure. But Mark hadn't hesitated --he seemed, far more than his brother, to regard Livvy and Ty as adult Shadowhunters who were simply expected to work like the others. It was Ty who had hesitated for a moment, looking worriedly at his sister. Livvy seemed absolutely fine now--they were on the top level of the boat, open to the air, and she was raising her face into the wind with unabashed pleasure, letting it lift her hair and whip it around. Ty was watching everything around them with that absorbed fascination of his, as if he were memorizing every building, every street. His fingers drummed a tattoo on the metal railing, but Kit didn't think that indicated anxiety. He'd noticed that Ty's gestures didn't always correspond to a bad mood. Sometimes they corresponded to a good one: If he was feeling relaxed, he'd watch his own fingers make lazy patterns against the air, the way a meteorologist might watch the movement of clouds. "If I became a Shadowhunter," Kit said, to neither of the twins specifically, "would I have to do a lot of homework? Or could I just, sort of, start doing it?" Livvy's eyes sparkled. "You are doing it." "Yes, but this is a state of emergency," said Ty. "He's right--he'd have to catch up on some classes. It's not as if you're as ignorant as a mundane would be," he added to Kit, "but there are some things you'd probably need to learn--classes of demons, languages, that sort of thing." Kit made a face. "I was really hoping I could learn on the job." Livvy laughed. "You could always go in front of the Council and make a case for it." "The Council?" said Kit. "How are they different from the Clave?" Livvy laughed harder. "I can see how your case might not be successful," said Ty. "Though I suppose we could tutor you a bit." "A bit?" said Kit. Ty smiled his rare, dazzling smile. "A bit. I do have important things to do." Kit thought of Ty on the roof the night before, how desperate he had seemed. He was back to his old self now, as if Livvy's restoration had restored him, too. He rested his elbows on the rail as the boat chugged past an imposing fortress-like building that loomed over the riverbank. "The Tower of London," said Livvy, noticing Kit's gaze. "The stories say that six ravens must always guard the Tower," said Ty, "or the monarchy will fall." "All the stories are true," said Livvy in a soft voice, and a chill went up Kit's spine. Ty turned his head. "Wasn't it a raven that carried Annabel and Malcolm's messages?" he said. "I think that was in Emma and Julian's notes." "Seems unreliable," said Kit. "What if the raven got bored, or distracted, or met a hot falcon on the way?" "Or was intercepted by faeries," said Livvy. "Not all faeries are bad," said Ty. "Some faeries are good, some are bad, like anyone," said Kit. "But that might be too complicated for the Clave." "It's too complicated for most people," Ty said. From anyone else, Kit would have thought that the comment was meant to be reproving. Ty, though, probably just meant it. Which was oddly pleasant to know. "I don't like what we've been hearing from Diana," said Livvy. "About how Zara's claiming she killed Malcolm." "My dad used to say that a big lie was often easier to carry off than a small one," said Kit. "Well, hopefully he was wrong," said Livvy, a little sharply. "I can't stand the idea that anyone thinks Zara and people like her are heroes. Even if they don't know she's lying about Malcolm, the Cohort's plans are despicable." "It's too bad none of you can just tell the Clave what Julian saw happen in the scrying glass," said Kit. "If they knew he'd gone to Faerie, he could be exiled," said Livvy, and there was an edge of real fear in her voice. "Or have his Marks stripped." "I could pretend I'm the one who saw it--it matters a lot less if I get tossed out of the Nephilim," Kit said. Kit had meant to lighten the mood with an obvious joke, but the twins looked rattled. "Don't you want to stay?" Ty's question was direct and sharp as a knife. Kit had no answer. There was a clamor of voices, and the boat jerked to a halt. It had docked at Limehouse, and the three of them hurried to get off--they were unglamoured, and as they pushed past several mundanes to get to the exit, Kit heard one of them mutter about kids getting tattooed way too young these days. Ty had made a face at all the noise, and had his headphones on as they wove through the streets. The air smelled like river water, but Magnus had been right--the docks vanished quickly, replaced by winding roads full of massive old factory buildings that had been turned into lofts. Ty had the map, and Livvy and Kit walked a little behind him, Livvy with her hand casually at her waist, where her weapons belt was hidden by her jacket. "He uses the headphones less when you're around," she said, her eyes on her brother, though her words were for Kit. "Is that good?" Kit was surprised. Livvy shrugged. "It isn't good or bad. It's just something I noticed. It's not magic or anything." She glanced sideways at him. "I think he just doesn't want to miss anything you say." Kit felt an odd stab of emotion go through him. It surprised him. He glanced sideways at Livvy. Since they'd left Los Angeles, she'd done nothing to indicate she wanted to repeat their one kiss. And Kit had found that he didn't either. Not that he didn't like Livvy, or find her pretty. But something seemed off about it now--as if it were somehow wrong. Maybe it was the fact that he didn't know if he wanted to be a Shadowhunter at all. "We're here." Ty had shoved his headphones down, the white band of them stark against his black hair. He alone among all the current Blackthorns had hair like that, though Kit had seen pictures in the Institute of their ancestors, some with the same dark hair and silver-gray eyes. "This should be illuminating. Shops like this have to abide by the Accords, unlike the Shadow Market, but they're also run by specialists." Ty looked enormously happy at the thought of all that specialized knowledge. They had passed the wider thoroughfare of Narrow Street and were now on what was presumably Gill Street, across from a single open shop. It had dimly lit windows and the owner's name spelled out in brass letters over the door, proprietor: F. sallows. There was no description of what kind of shop it was, but Kit supposed that those who shopped there knew what they were shopping for. Ty was already across the street, opening the door. Livvy hurried after him. Kit was last-- cautious and a little less than eager. He had grown up around magic-sellers and their patrons, and was wary of both. The inside of the shop didn't offer much reason to improve his views. The frosted windows let in glare but not light. It was clean at least, with long shelves lined with some things he'd seen before--dragon's teeth, holy water, blessed nails, enchanted beauty powders, luck charms--and quite a few he hadn't. Clocks that ran backward, though he had no idea why. The wire-jointed skeletons of animals he'd never seen before. Shark teeth too big to belong to any shark on earth. Jar after jar of butterfly wings in explosive colors of hot pink, neon yellow, and lime green. Bottles of blue water whose surfaces rippled like tiny seas. There was a dusty copper bell on the front counter. Livvy picked it up and rang it, while Ty studied the maps on the walls. The one he was staring at was marked with names Kit had never seen before--the Thorn Mountains, Hollow Town, the Shattered Forest. "Faerie," Ty said in an unusually subdued voice. "Hard to get maps of it, since the geography tends to change, but I looked at quite a few when Mark was missing." The tap-tap of heels on the floor announced the arrival of the shopkeeper. To Kit's surprise, she was familiar--dark-skinned and bronze-haired, dressed today in a plain black sheath dress. Hypatia Vex. "Nephilim," she said with a sigh. "I hate Nephilim." "I take it this isn't one of those places where the customer is always right," Livvy said. "You're not Sallows," said Ty. "You're Hypatia Vex. We met you yesterday." "Sallows died years ago," said Hypatia. "Killed by Nephilim, as it happens." Awkward, Kit thought. "We have a list of things we need." Livvy pushed a paper across the counter. "For Magnus Bane." Hypatia raised an eyebrow. "Ah, Bane, your great defender. What a pest that man is." She took the paper. "Some of these will take at least a day to prepare. Can you come back tomorrow?" "Do we have a choice?" said Livvy, with a winsome smile. "No," said Hypatia. "And you'll pay in gold. I'm not interested in mundane money." "Just tell us how much," said Ty, and she reached for a pen and began scribbling. "And also--there's something I want to ask you." He looked over at Kit and Livvy. Livvy got the hint first, and drew Kit outside the shop until they were standing in the street. The sun was warm on his hair and skin; he wondered what mundanes saw when they looked at the shop. Maybe a dusty convenience store or a place that sold tombstones. Something you'd never want to go into. "How long are you planning on being friends with my brother?" Livvy said abruptly. Kit jumped. "I--what?" "You heard me," she said. Her eyes were much bluer than the Thames. Ty's eyes were really more the river's color. "People don't really think about friendship that way," said Kit. "It depends how long you know the person--how long you're in the same place." "It's your choice ," she said, her eyes darkening. "You can stay with us as long as you want to." "Can I? What about the Academy? What about learning to be a Shadowhunter? How am I supposed to catch up with you when you're all a million years ahead of me ?" "We don't care about that--" "Maybe I care about that." Livvy spoke in a steady voice. "When we were kids," she said, "the Ashdowns used to come over to play. Our parents thought we should see more kids outside our family, and Paige Ashdown was about my age, so she got shoved together with me and Ty. And once he was talking to us about what he was obsessed with--it was cars back then, before Sherlock. And she said sarcastically that he ought to come over and tell her all about it because it was so interesting." "What happened?" "He went over to her house to talk to her about cars, and she wasn't there, and when she came home, she laughed at him and told him to go away, she hadn't meant it, and was he stupid?" Kit felt a slow boil of fury toward a girl he'd never met. "I'd never do that." "Look," Livvy said. "Since then, Ty's learned so much about the way people say things they don't mean, about tone not matching expression, all that. But he trusts you, he's let you in. He might not always remember to apply that stuff to you. I'm just saying--don't lie to him. Don't lead him on." "I haven't--" Kit began, when the bell rang and the shop door opened. It was Ty, pulling his hood up against the gentle breeze. "All done," he said. "Let's get back." If he noticed any atmosphere of tension, he didn't say anything, and all the way home, they talked about unimportant things. The piskies sat in an unhappy line on a row of stones at the edge of the cottage garden. After pulling them out of the pit, Emma and Jules had offered them food, but only one had accepted, and was currently facedown in a bowl of milk. The tallest of the faerie creatures spoke in a piping voice. "Malcolm Fade? Where is Malcolm Fade?" "Not here," said Julian. "Gone to visit a sick relative," said Emma, gazing at the piskies in fascination. "Warlocks don't have relatives," said the piskie. "No one gets my references," Emma muttered. "We're friends of Malcolm's," said Julian, after a moment. If Emma didn't know him, she would have believed him. His face was entirely guileless when he lied. "He asked us to look after the place while he was away." The piskies whispered to each other in small, high voices. Emma strained her ears but couldn't understand them. They weren't speaking a gentry language of Faerie, but something much more simple and ancient-sounding. It had the murmur of water over rocks, the sharp acidity of green grass. "Are you warlocks too?" said the tallest of the piskies, breaking away from the group. His eyes were marled with gray and silver, like Cornwall rock. Julian shook his head and held his arm out, turning it so the Insight rune on his forearm was visible, stark against his skin. "We're Nephilim." The piskies murmured among themselves again. "We're looking for Annabel Blackthorn," said Julian. "We want to take her home where she'll be protected." The piskies looked dubious. "She said you knew where she was," said Julian. "You've been talking to her?" "We knew her and Malcolm years ago," said the piskie. "It is not often a mortal lives so long. We were curious." "You might as well tell us," said Emma. "We'll let you go if you do." "And if we don't?" said the smallest piskie. "We won't let you go," said Julian. "She's in Porthallow Church," said the smallest piskie, speaking up for the group. "It's been empty these many years. She knows it and feels safe there, and there are few tallfolk in the area on most days." "Is Porthallow Church near here?" Julian demanded. "Is it close to the town?" "Very close," said the tallest piskie. "Killing close." He raised his thin, pale hands, pointing. "But you cannot go today. It is Sunday, when the tallfolk come in groups to study the graveyard beside the church." "Thank you," said Julian. "You've been very helpful, indeed." Dru pushed the door of her bedroom open. "Jaime?" she whispered. There was no answer. She crept inside, shutting the door after her. She was carrying a plate of scones that Bridget had made. When she'd asked for a whole plate of them, Bridget had giggled at something it seemed clear only she remembered, then sharply told Dru not to eat them all or she'd get fatter. Dru had long ago learned not to eat much in front of people she didn't know, or seem as if she was hungry, or put too much food on her plate. She hated the way they looked at her if she did, as if to say, oh, that's why she's not thin. But for Jaime, she'd been willing to do it. After he'd made himself at home in her room-- flinging himself across her bed as if he'd been sleeping there for days, then bolting up and asking if he could use the shower--she'd asked if he was hungry and he'd lowered his eyelashes, smiling up at her. "I didn't want to impose, but..." She'd hurried off to the kitchen and didn't want to return empty-handed. That was something a scared thirteen-year-old might do, but not a sixteen-year-old. Or however old he thought she was. She hadn't been specific. "Jaime?" He came out of the bathroom in jeans, pulling his T-shirt on. She caught a glimpse of a black tattoo--not a Mark, but words in Roman letters--snaking across flat brown skin before the T-shirt covered his stomach. She stared at him without speaking as he approached her and grabbed a scone. He winked at her. "Thanks." "You're welcome," she said faintly. He sat on the bed, scattering crumbs, black hair damp and curling with the humidity. She placed the scones carefully on the top of the dresser. By the time she turned back around, he was asleep, head pillowed on his arm. She perched herself on the nightstand table for a moment, her arms around herself. She could see Diego in the colors and curves of Jaime's face. It was as if someone had taken Diego and sharpened him, made all his angles more acute. A tattoo of more script looped around one brown wrist and disappeared up Jaime's shirtsleeve; she wished she knew enough Spanish to translate it. She started to turn toward the door, meaning to leave him alone to rest. "Don't go," he said. She spun around and saw that his eyes were half-open, his lashes casting shadows on his too-sharp cheekbones. "It's been a long time since I had anyone to talk to." She sat down on the edge of the bed. Jaime rolled over on his back, his arms folded behind his head. He was all long limbs and black hair and lashes like spider's legs. Everything about him was slightly off-kilter, where everything about Diego had been even lines like a comic book. Dru tried not to stare. "I was looking at the stickers on your nightstand," he said. Dru had bought them in a store on Fleet Street when she'd been out with Diana picking up sandwiches. "They're all horror movies." "I like horror movies." He grinned. Black hair flopped into his eyes. He shoved it back. "You like to be scared?" "Horror movies don't scare me," said Dru. "Aren't they supposed to?" He sounded genuinely interested. Dru couldn't remember the last time anyone had seemed genuinely interested in her love for slasher films and vintage horror. Julian had sometimes stayed up to watch Horror Hotel with her, but she knew that was just older-brother kindness. "I remember the Dark War," she said. "I remember watching people die in front of me. My father was one of the Endarkened. He came back, but it wasn't--it wasn't him." She swallowed hard. "When I watch a scary movie, I know whatever happens, I'll be all right when it's over. I know the people in it were just actors and after everything was done, they walked away. The blood was fake and washed off." Jaime's eyes were dark and fathomless. "It almost lets you believe none of those things exist," he said. "Imagine if they didn't." She smiled a little sadly. "We're Shadowhunters," she said. "We don't get to imagine that." "People will do anything to get out of housework," said Julian. "Not you," Emma said. She was lying on the sofa with her legs hooked over the arm. Since they couldn't follow Annabel to the church today, they'd decided to spend the afternoon reading through Malcolm's diaries and studying Annabel's drawings. By the time the sun began going down, they had a sizable amount of notes systematically arranged around the cottage in piles. Notes about timeline--when Malcolm had joined Annabel's family, how they, who ran the Cornwall Institute, had adopted him when he was a child. How intensely Annabel had loved Blackthorn Manor, the Blackthorns' ancestral home in the green hills of Idris, and how they had played in Brocelind Forest together. When Malcolm had started planning for their future, and built the cottage in Polperro, and how he and Annabel had hidden their relationship, exchanging all their messages through Annabel's raven. When Annabel's father had discovered them, and thrown his daughter out of the Blackthorn house, and Malcolm had found her the next morning, weeping alone on the beach. Malcolm had determined then that he would need protection for them from the Clave. He had known of the collection of spell books at the Cornwall Institute. He would need a powerful patron, he had decided. Someone he could trade the Black Volume to, who in turn would keep the Council away from them. Emma read aloud from the diaries, and Julian took notes. Every once in a while they would stop, take pictures with their phones of their notes and questions, and text them to the Institute. Sometimes they got questions back and scrambled to answer them; sometimes they got nothing. Once they got a picture of Ty, who had found an entire row of first-edition Sherlock Holmes books in the library and was beaming. Once they got a picture of Mark's foot. Neither of them knew what to make of that. At some point Julian stretched, padded into the kitchen, and made them both toasted cheese sandwiches on the Aga, a massive iron stove that radiated warmth through the room. This is had, he thought, looking down at his hands as he settled the sandwiches onto plates and remembered that Emma liked hers with the crusts cut off. He'd made fun of her for it often. He reached for a knife, the gesture mechanical, habit. He imagined doing this every day. Living in a house he'd designed himself--like this one, it would have a view of the sea. A massive studio where he could paint. A room for Emma to train. He imagined waking up every morning to find her beside him, or sitting at a table in the kitchen with her morning cereal, humming, raising her face to smile at him when he came in. A wave of desire--not just for the physicality of her but for the dream of that life--swept through him, almost choking him. It was dangerous to dream, he reminded himself. As dangerous as it was for Sleeping Beauty in her castle, where she'd fallen into dreams that had devoured her for a century. He went to join Emma by the fire. She was bright-eyed, smiling as she took the plate from him. "You know what I'm worried about?" His heart did a slow curl inside his chest. "What?" "Church," she said. "He's all alone in the Institute in L.A." "No, he isn't. He's surrounded by Centurions." "What if one of them tries to steal him?" "Then they'll be appropriately punished," said Julian, moving slightly closer to the fire. "What's the appropriate punishment for stealing a cat?" Emma asked around her sandwich. "In Church's case, having to keep him," said Julian. Emma made a face. "If there were any crusts on this sandwich, I'd throw them at you." "Why don't you just throw the sandwich?" She looked horrified. "And give up the tasty cheese? I would never, ever give up the tasty cheese." "My mistake." Julian tossed another log onto the fire. A bubble of happiness swelled in his chest, sweet and unfamiliar. "Cheese this tasty doesn't just come along every day," she informed him. "You know what would make it even better?" "What?" He sat back on his heels. "Another sandwich." She held out her empty plate, laughing. He took the plate, and it was a completely ordinary moment, but it was also everything he'd ever wanted and never let himself imagine. A house, with Emma; laughing by a fire together. All that would make it better would be his brothers and sisters somewhere nearby, where he could see them every day, where he could fence with Livvy and watch movies with Dru and help Tavvy learn the crossbow. Where he could look for animals with Ty, hermit crabs down by the edge of the water, scuttling under their shells. Where he could cook massive dinners with Mark and Helen and Aline and they'd all eat them together, out under the stars in the desert air. Where he could hear the sea, as he could hear it now. And where he could see Emma, always Emma, the better, brighter half of him, who tempered his ruthlessness, who forced him to acknowledge the light when he saw only darkness. But they would all have to be together, he thought. Long ago the pieces of his soul had scattered, and every piece lived in one of his brothers or sisters. Except for the piece that lived in Emma, which had been burned into its home in her by the flame of the parabatai ceremony, and the pressure of his own heart. It was impossible, though. An impossible thing that could never happen. Even if by some miracle his family came through all this unscathed and together--and if Helen and Aline could come back to them--even then, Emma, his Emma, would someday have her own family and her own life. He wondered if he would be her suggenes, if he would give her away at her wedding. It was the usual thing, with parabatai. The thought made him feel as if he was being cut up inside with razor blades. "Do you remember," she was saying, in her soft, teasing voice, "when you said you could sneak Church into class without Diana noticing, and then he bit you in the middle of the lecture on Jonathan Shadowhunter?" "Not at all." He settled back on the floor, one of the diaries by his hand. The warmth in the room, the smell of tea and burnt bread, the glow of the firelight on Emma's hair, were making him sleepy. He was as intensely happy as he was miserable, and it exhausted him to be pulled in two such different directions at once. "You yelled," she said. "And then you told Diana it was because you were really excited to be learning." "Is there a reason you remember every embarrassing thing that happens to me?" he wondered aloud. "Someone has to," she said. The curve of her face was rosy in the firelight. The glass bracelet on his wrist glinted, cold against his cheek when he lowered his head. He had been frightened that without Cristina here, they would fight and argue. That they would be bitter with each other. Instead everything was perfect. And in its own way, that was so much worse. Pain woke Mark in the middle of the night, the feeling that his wrist was ringed with nails. They'd worked in the library until late, Magnus fiddling with the recipe for the binding spell antidote and the rest of them poring through old books about the Black Volume. Combining the memories from the aletheia crystal and the information from the notes Emma and Julian had sent was beginning to create a more complete picture of Annabel and Malcolm, but Mark couldn't help wondering if it was doing any good. What they needed was the Black Volume, and even if its story was woven in the past, would that help the Blackthorns find it in the present? On the plus side, he'd managed to convince Kieran to eat almost an entire meal Alec had brought over from a cafe on Fleet Street, despite the fact that he spent the whole time complaining that the juice wasn't really juice and that chutney didn't exist. "It cannot possibly," he had said, glaring at his sandwich. He was asleep now, curled in a tangle of blanket under Mark's window, his head propped on a stack of poetry books he'd brought from the library. Almost all of them had been inscribed on the inside cover by a James Herondale, who had neatly written out his favorite lines. Mark's wrist throbbed again now, and with the pain came a sense of unease. Cristina, he thought. They'd barely spoken that day, both of them avoiding each other. It was partly Kieran, but even more the binding spell, the awful reality of it between them. Mark scrambled to his feet and pulled on jeans and a T-shirt. He couldn't sleep, not like this, not worrying about her. Barefoot, he went down the hall to her room. But it was empty. Her bed was made, the cover pulled flat, moonlight shining on it. Perplexed, he moved down the hallway, letting the binding spell lead him. It was like following the music of a revel from a distance. He could almost hear her: She was in the Institute, somewhere. He passed Kit's door and heard raised voices, and someone laugh--Ty. He thought of the way Ty had seemed to need him when he'd first come back, and now that was gone: Kit had worked an odd sort of magic, rounding out what the twins had into a threesome that balanced itself. Ty no longer looked at Mark the same way, as if he were looking for someone to understand him. Which was good, Mark thought, as he took the stairs down, two at a time. Because he wasn't in much shape to understand anyone. He didn't even understand himself. A long corridor took him to two white-painted double doors, one of them standing open. Inside was a massive, dusty, half-lit room. It clearly hadn't been used in many years, though it was clean other than the dust. White sheets covered most of the furniture. Arched windows looked out onto the courtyard, and a night that sparkled with stars. Cristina was there, in the middle of the room, looking up at one of the chandeliers. There was a row of three of them, unlit but glittering with crystal drops. He let the door fall shut behind him and she turned. She didn't look surprised to see him. She was wearing a simple black dress that looked as if it had been cut for someone shorter than her, and her hair was up off her face. "Mark," she said. "Couldn't you sleep?" "Not well." He glanced ruefully down at his wrist, though the pain had gone now that he was with Cristina. "Did you feel the same?" She nodded. Her eyes were bright. "My mother always said that the ballroom in the London Institute was the most beautiful room she'd ever seen." She looked around, at the Edwardian striped wallpaper, the heavy velvet curtains looped back from the windows. "But she must have seen it very much alive and filled with people. It seems like Sleeping Beauty's castle now. As if the Dark War surrounded it with thorns and since then it has slept." Mark held out his hand, the wound of the binding circling his wrist like Julian's sea-glass bracelet circled his. "Let us wake it up," he said. "Dance with me." "But there's no music," she said. She swayed a little toward him, though, as she spoke. "I have danced at many a revel," he said, "where there has been no pipe and no fiddle, where there has been only the music of the wind and stars. I can show you." She came toward him, the golden pendant at her throat glittering. "How magical," she said, and her eyes were huge and dark and luminous with mischief. "Or I could do this." She took her phone out of her pocket and thumbed a few buttons. Music poured out of the small speakers: not loud, but Mark could feel it--not a tune he knew, but fast and energetic, thrumming down through his blood. He held out his hands. Setting her phone down on a windowsill, she took them, laughing as he pulled her toward him. Their bodies touched once, lightly, and she spun away, making him follow her. If he'd thought he would be leading, he realized, he was wrong. He paced after her as she moved like fire, always just ahead of him, spinning until her hair came down out of its fastening and flew around her face. The chandeliers glittered overhead like rain and Mark seized Cristina's hand in his. He whirled her in a circle; her body brushed his as she turned, and he caught her hips and drew her toward him. And now she was in his arms, moving, and everywhere her body touched his felt like a lit spark. Everything had been driven out of his head but Cristina. The light on her brown skin, her flushed face, the way her skirt flew up when she twirled, affording him a glimpse of the smooth thighs he'd imagined a hundred times. He caught her by the waist and she swayed backward in his arms, boneless, her hair brushing the floor. When she rose up again, eyes half-lidded, he could no longer contain himself. He drew her into him and kissed her. Her hands flew up and fastened in his hair, her fingers tugging and pulling him closer against her. She tasted like cold clear water and he drew on her mouth as if he were incredibly thirsty. His whole body felt like one desperate ache, and when she moved away from him, he groaned softly. But she was laughing, looking at him, dancing lightly backward with her hands held out. His skin felt tight all over; he was desperate to kiss her again, desperate to let his hands go where his eyes had gone earlier: sliding up the outsides of her long legs, under her skirt, along her waist, over her back where the muscles were smooth and long on either side of her spine. He wanted her, and it was a very human want; not starlight and strangeness, but right here and right now. He strode after her, reaching for her hands. "Cristina--" She froze, and for a moment of fear he thought it was because of him. But she was looking past him. He turned and saw Kieran in the doorway, leaning against it, gazing very steadily at them both. Mark tensed. In a moment of delayed clarity he realized he had been stupid, alarmingly stupid to have done what he was doing. But none of it was Cristina's fault. If Kieran brought his temper to bear on her-- But when Kieran spoke, it was lightly. "Mark," he said. "You really have no idea, do you? You should show her how it is properly done." He walked toward them, a true prince of Faerie in all his grace. He wore a white shirt and breeches and his black hair fell partway to his shoulders. He reached the middle of the room and held a hand out to Cristina. "My lady," he said, and bowed. "Favor me with a dance?" Cristina hesitated a moment, and then nodded. "You don't have to," Mark said in a whisper. She only gave him a long look, and then followed Kieran out to the middle of the floor. "Now," Kieran said, and he began to move. Mark didn't think he'd ever danced with Kieran before, not at a revel; they had always tried to conceal their relationship in front of the greater world of Faerie. And Kieran, if he could not dance with his chosen partner, would not dance with anyone. But he was dancing now. And if Cristina had moved like fire, Kieran moved like lightning. After a moment of hesitation, Cristina followed him--he drew her into his arms--caught her, lifted her up into the air with easy faerie strength, whirling her around him. She gasped, and her face lit up with the pleasure of the music and the movement. Mark stood where he was, feeling awkward and startled in equal measure. What was Kieran doing? What was he thinking? Was this a reproach of some sort? But it didn't seem to be one. How much had Kieran seen? The kissing, or just the dancing? He heard Cristina laugh. His eyes widened. Incredible. She and Kieran were like stars whirling together, just touching at the edges, but flaring up into a rain of sparks and fire when they did. And Kieran was smiling, actually smiling. It changed his face, made him look as young as he actually was. The music ended. Cristina stopped dancing, looking suddenly shy. Kieran lifted his hand to touch her long dark hair, sweeping it back over her shoulder so he could lean in and kiss her cheek. Her eyes widened in surprise. Only then, when he had drawn back, did he look at Mark. "There," he said. "That is how the blood of Faerieland can dance." "Wake up." Kit groaned and rolled over. He'd finally been sleeping, and dreaming something pleasant about being at the beach with his dad. Not that his dad had ever actually taken him to the beach, but that was what dreams were for, weren't they? In the dream, his father had touched his shoulder and said, I always knew you'd make a good Shadowhunter. Never mind that Johnny Rook would rather that his son became a serial killer than one of the Nephilim. Struggling up out of sleep, Kit remembered his father's knowing smile and the last time he had seen it, on the morning when Malcolm Fade's demons had torn Johnny Rook to shreds. "Didn't you hear me?" The voice rousing Kit out of sleep became more urgent. "Wake up!" Kit opened his eyes. His room was full of the pale glow of witchlight, and there was a shadow hovering over his bed. With memories of Mantid demons fresh at the edge of his consciousness, he bolted upright. The shadow moved swiftly backward, barely avoiding colliding with Kit. The witchlight beamed upward, illuminating Ty, his soft black hair a mess, as if he'd rolled out of bed and come to Kit's room without brushing it. He wore a gray hoodie Julian had given him before he left for Cornwall, likely half for convenience and half for comfort. The cord of his headphones trailed from his pocket to wrap around his neck. "Watson," he said. "I want to see you." Kit groaned and scrubbed at his eyes. "What? What time is it?" Ty spun the witchlight in his fingers. "Did you know that the first words ever spoken on the telephone were 'Watson, come here, I want to see you'?" "Totally different Watson, though," Kit pointed out. "I know," said Ty. "I just thought it was interesting." He tugged at the cord of his headphones. "I did want to see you. Or at least, I have something I have to do, and I'd rather you came with me. It was actually something you said that gave me the idea to do the research." Kit kicked the covers off. He'd been sleeping in his clothes anyway, a habit instilled in him during the times when some deal his father had been involved in had gone wrong, and they'd slept fully dressed for days in case they had to pick up and run. "Research?" he asked. "It's in the library," Ty said. "I can show it to you before we go. If you want." "I'd like to see it." Kit slid out of bed and kicked on his shoes, grabbing up a jacket before following Ty down the hall. He knew he ought to feel exhausted, but there was something about Ty's energy, the brightness and concentration of his focus, that worked on Kit like caffeine. It woke him up inside with a sense of promise, as if the moments in front of him suddenly held endless possibilities. In the library, Ty had taken over one of the tables with the notes Emma and Julian had sent from Cornwall and printouts of Annabel's drawings. It still looked like the same mess to Kit, but Ty glided his witchlight over the pages with confidence. "Remember when we were talking about how a raven carried messages between Malcolm and Annabel? On the boat? And you said it seemed unreliable?" "I remember," said Kit. "It gave me an idea," said Ty. "You're good at giving me ideas. I don't know why." He shrugged. "Anyway. We're going to Cornwall." "Why? Are you going to exhume the bird and interrogate it?" "Of course not." "That was a joke, Ty--" Kit broke off, the impact of Ty's words hitting him belatedly. "What? We're going where?" "I know it was a joke," said Ty, picking up one of the printouts of the drawings. "Livvy told me that when people tell jokes that aren't that funny, the polite thing is to ignore them. Is that not true?" He looked anxious, and Kit wanted to hug him, the way he had the other night on the roof. "No, it's true," he said, hurrying after Ty as they left the library. "It's just that humor is subjective. Not everyone agrees the same things are funny, or not funny." Ty looked at him with sincere friendliness. "I'm sure many people find you hilarious." "They absolutely do." They were hurrying down a set of steps now, into shadows. Kit wondered why they were going, but it almost didn't matter--he felt excitement sparking at the tips of his fingers, the promise of adventure. "But Cornwall, seriously? How? And what about Livvy?" Ty didn't turn around. "I don't want to bring her tonight." They'd reached the bottom of the steps. A door swung out from here into a massive open stone-bound room. The crypt of the cathedral. The floor and walls were made of massive dark slabs of stone, filed to smoothness, and there were brass fixtures attached to stone pillars that had probably once held lamps. Now the light came from Ty's rune-stone, spilling between his cupped fingers. "What are we doing, exactly?" said Kit. "Remember when I stayed at the shop to talk to Hypatia Vex?" Ty said. "She told me there's a permanent Portal down here. An old one, maybe one of the first ever, made around 1903. It only goes to the Cornwall Institute. The Clave doesn't know about it or regulate it." "An unregulated Portal?" said Kit. Ty was moving around the room, shining his witchlight against the walls, into cracks and corners. "Isn't that dangerous?" Ty didn't say anything. Long tapestries hung against the walls at intervals. He was glancing behind each one, running the light up and down the wall. It bounced off the stone, lighting up the room like fireflies. "That's why you didn't want Livvy to come," said Kit. "It is dangerous." Ty straightened up. His hair was a mess. "She already got hurt," he said. "Because of me." "Ty--" "I need to find the Portal." Ty leaned against the wall, his fingers drumming against it. "I looked behind all the tapestries." "Maybe look in them?" Kit suggested. Ty gave him a long, considering look, with a tinge of surprise to it. Kit caught just a flash of his gray eyes as he turned back to examine the tapestries again. Each one showed a scene from what looked like a medieval landscape: castles, long stone walls, towers and roads, horses and battle. Ty stopped in front of one that showed a high hedge, in the middle of which was an arched opening. Through the opening the sea was visible. He put his hand against it, a hesitant, questioning gesture. There was a flare of light. Kit darted forward as the tapestry shimmered, turning glimmering and colorful as a slick of oil. Ty glanced again at the drawing he held, then turned, his other hand outstretched to Kit. "Don't be so slow." Kit reached for him. His fingers closed around Ty's, warm and firm under his grasp. Ty stepped forward, into the Portal, the colors parting and re-forming around him--he was half invisible already--and his grip tightened on Kit's, pulling him after. Kit held on tightly. But somewhere in the whirling chaos of the Portal, his hand ripped free of Ty's. An irrational panic seized him, and he shouted something out loud--he wasn't sure what--before the Portal winds cartwheeled him through a shadowy doorway and spit him out into cold air, onto a slope of damp grass. "Yes?" Ty was standing over him, witchlight in hand. The sky behind him was high and dark, shimmering with a million stars. Kit stood up, wincing. He was getting used to Portal travel, but he still didn't like it. "What is it?" Ty's gaze didn't meet Kit's, but he looked him over, as if checking for injuries. "You were saying my name." "Was I?" Kit glanced around. Green lawns sloped away in three directions, and rose in the fourth to meet a large gray church. "I think I was worried you were lost in the Portal." "That's only happened a few times. It's statistically very unlikely." Ty raised his witchlight. "This is the Cornwall Institute." In the distance, Kit could see the glimmer of moonlight on black water. The sea. Above them the church was a heap of gray stone with broken black windows and a missing front door. The spire of the church stabbed upward into swirling clouds, lit from behind by the moon. He whistled through his teeth. "How long has it been abandoned?" "Only a few years. Not enough Shadowhunters to man all the Institutes. Not since the Dark War." Ty was glancing between the drawing in his hand and their surroundings. Kit could see the remains of a garden gone to seed: weeds growing up among dead rosebushes, grass far too long and in need of cutting, moss covering the dozens of statues that were scattered around the garden like victims of Medusa. A horse reared into the air beside a boy with a bird perched on his wrist. A stone woman held a dainty parasol. Tiny stone rabbits peeked through weeds. "And we're going inside?" Kit said dubiously. He didn't like the look of the dark windows. "Wouldn't we be better off coming during the day?" "We're not going inside." Ty held up the drawing he'd brought. In the witchlight, Kit could see that it was an ink sketch of the Institute and the gardens, done during daylight hours. The place hadn't changed much in the past two hundred years. The same rosebushes, the same statues. It looked as if the drawing had been done in winter, though, as the boughs of the trees were skeletal. "What we need is out here." "What do we need?" said Kit. "Indulge me. Explain what this has to do with my idle comment about ravens being unreliable." "It would be unreliable. The thing is, Malcolm didn't say the raven was alive, or a real bird. We just assumed." "No, but--" Kit paused. He'd been about to say it didn't make any sense to give your messages to a dead raven, but something about the look on Ty's face silenced him. "It actually makes more sense for them to have just left the messages in a hiding place," said Ty. "One they could both get to easily." He crossed the grass to the statue of the boy with the bird on his wrist. A little jolt went through Kit. He didn't know much about birds, but this one was carved out of glossy black stone. And it looked a lot like drawings he'd seen of ravens. Ty reached around to run his fingers over the stone bird. There was a clicking noise, and a squeak of hinges. Kit hurried over to see Ty prying open a small opening in the bird's back. "Is there anything in there?" Ty shook his head. "It's empty." He reached into his pocket, retrieved a folded-up piece of paper, and dropped it into the opening before sealing it back up again. Kit stopped in his tracks. "You left a message." Ty nodded. He'd folded up the drawing and put it in his pocket. His hand swung free at his side, the witchlight in it: Its light was dimmed, the moon providing enough illumination that they could both see. "For Annabel?" said Kit. Ty hesitated. "Don't tell anyone," he said finally. "It was just an idea I had." "It was smart," said Kit. "Really smart--I don't think anyone else would have guessed about the statue. I don't think anyone else could have." "But it might not matter," said Ty. "In which case I would have failed. And I'd rather no one know." He began to murmur under his breath, the way he did sometimes. "I'll know." Ty paused in his murmuring. "I don't mind," he said, "if it's you." Kit wanted to ask him why not, wanted to ask badly, but Ty looked as if he wasn't sure he knew the answer himself. And he was still murmuring, the same soft stream of words that was somewhere between a whisper and a song. "What are you saying?" Kit asked finally, not sure if it was all right to ask, but unable to help his curiosity. Ty glanced up at the moon through his lashes. They were thick and dark, almost childlike. They gave his face a look of innocence that made him look younger--a strange effect, at odds with his almost frighteningly sharp mind. "Just words I like," he said. "If I say them to myself, it makes my mind--quieter. Does it bother you?" "No!" Kit said quickly. "I was just curious what words you liked." Ty bit his lip. For a moment, Kit thought he wasn't going to say anything at all. "It's not the meaning, just the sound," he said. "Glass, twin, apple, whisper, stars, crystal, shadow, lilt." He glanced away from Kit, a shivering figure in his too-large hoodie, his black hair absorbing moonlight, giving none of it back. "Whisper would be one of mine, too," said Kit. He took a step toward Ty, touched his shoulder gently. "Cloud, secret, highway, hurricane, mirror, castle, thorns." "Blackthorns," said Ty, with a dazzling smile, and Kit knew, in that instant, that whatever he'd been telling himself about running away for the past few days had been a lie. And maybe it had been that lie that Livvy had been responding to, when she'd snapped at him outside the magic store that day--the kernel inside his own heart that had told him he might still be leaving. But he knew now that he could reassure her. He wasn't leaving the Shadowhunters. He wasn't going anywhere. Because where the Blackthorns were, was his home now. <|title|>Chapter 22: The Most Unholy <|startofchapter|>When Emma woke the next morning, she found she had managed not to tie herself in a knot around Julian while sleeping. Progress. Maybe because she'd spent all night having terrible dreams where she saw her father again, and he peeled off his face to reveal that he was Sebastian Morgenstern underneath. "Luke, I am your father," she muttered, and heard Julian laugh softly. She staggered off to find her gear so she wouldn't have to watch him getting up adorably sleepy-eyed and tousle- haired. She changed in the office while Julian showered and dressed; they met up for a quick breakfast of toast and juice, and were off to find Annabel. It was nearly noon and the sun was high in the sky by the time they made it to Porthallow Church--apparently what was close for piskies wasn't what humans would call nearby. Though Emma kept hearing the high voice of the piskie in her head. Killing close, it had said. Whatever that meant, she didn't like the sound of it. The church had been built on a cliff over a headland. The sea spread out in the distance, a carpet of matte blue. Clouds brushstroked across the sky, like a ball of cotton someone had picked apart and scattered. The air was full of the hum of bees and the scent of late wildflowers. The area around the church was overgrown, but the building itself was in decent shape despite having been abandoned. The windows had been carefully boarded up, and a keep OUT: PRIVATE PROPERTY: YOU ARE TRESPASSING sign was nailed to the front door. Some small distance from the church was a little graveyard, its gray, rain-washed tombstones barely visible among the long grass. The church's single square tower was cast in lonely relief against the sky. Emma adjusted Cortana on her back and glanced over at Julian, who was frowning down at her phone. "What are you looking at?" she asked. "Wikipedia. 'Porthallow Church is located above the sea, on the cliff-top at Talland near Polperro in Cornwall. The altar of the church is said to date from the time of King Mark, of Tristan and Isolde fame, and was built at the junction of ley lines.'" "Wikipedia knows about ley lines?" Emma took her phone back. "Wikipedia knows about everything. It might be run by warlocks." "You think that's what they do all day in the Spiral Labyrinth? Run Wikipedia?" "I admit it seems like a letdown." Tucking the phone in her pocket, Emma indicated the church. "So this is another convergence?" Julian shook his head. "A convergence is where every ley line in the area links up. This is a junction--two ley lines crossing. Still a powerful place." In the bright sunshine he drew a seraph blade from his belt, holding it against his side as they approached the church entrance. "Do you know what you're going to say to Annabel?" Emma whispered. "Not a clue," Julian said. "I guess I'll--" He broke off. There was something in his eyes: a troubled look. "Is something wrong?" Emma asked. They'd reached the church doors. "No," Julian said, after a long moment, and though Emma could tell he didn't mean it, she let it slide. She drew Cortana from her back, just in case. Julian shouldered the doors open. The small lock holding them shut burst apart, and they were inside, Julian a few steps ahead of Emma. It was pitch-black inside the abandoned church. "Arariel," he murmured, and his seraph blade lit like a small bonfire, illuminating the interior. A stone arcade ran along one side of the church, the pews nestled between the arches. The stone was carved with delicate designs of leaves. The nave and the transept, where the altar was usually located, were deep in shadow. Emma heard Julian draw in his breath. "This is where Malcolm raised Annabel," he said. "I remember it from the scrying glass. This is where Arthur died." "Are you sure?" "Yes." Julian lowered his head. "Ave atque vale, Arthur Blackthorn." His voice was full of sorrow. "You died bravely and for your family." "Jules..." She wanted to reach out and touch him, but he had already straightened up, any sorrow he felt cloaked beneath the mantle of being Nephilim. "I don't know why Annabel would want to stay here," he said, sweeping the light of his seraph blade over the church's interior. It was thick with dust. "It can't be a spot with good memories for her." "But if she's desperate for a hiding place..." "Look." Julian indicated the altar, propped on a granite slab a few feet thick. It had a wooden top laid over the stone, and something flashed white against the wood. A folded piece of paper, pinned there by a knife. Julian's name was scrawled on it in a feminine dark hand. Emma ripped the paper away and handed it to Jules, who flicked it open quickly, holding it where they could both read by the light of Julian's blade. Julian, You may consider this in the nature of a test. If you are here, reading this note, you have failed it. Emma heard Julian draw in his breath. They read on: I told thepiskies that I was living here, in the church. It is not true. I would not remain where so much blood has spilled. But I knew that you could not leave my whereabouts alone, that you would ask the piskies where I was, that you would search me out. Though I had asked you not to. Now you are here in this place. I wish you were not, for I was not the only thing that was raised by Malcolm Fade and your uncle's blood. But you had to see what the Black Volume can do. --Annabel Cristina was sitting in the embrasure of the library window, reading, when she glanced out the window and saw a familiar dark figure slipping through the front gates. She'd been in the library for several hours, dutifully going through the books in the languages she knew best--Spanish, Ancient Greek, Old Castilian, and Aramaic--for mentions of the Black Volume. Not that she could concentrate. Memories of the night before kept hitting her at odd moments, like when she was passing the sugar to Ty and nearly spilled it in his lap. Had she really kissed Mark? Danced with Kieran? Enjoyed dancing with Kieran? No, she thought, she'd be truthful with herself: She had enjoyed it. It had been like riding with the Wild Hunt. She'd felt drawn out of her own body, spinning through the stars and clouds. It had been like the stories of revels her mother had told her when she was a child, where mortals had lost themselves in the dances of Faerie-kind, and died for the beautiful joy of it. Of course, afterward they'd all simply gone back to their separate rooms--Kieran calmly, Mark and Cristina both looking shaken. And Cristina had lain there a long time, not sleeping, looking at the ceiling and wondering what she had gotten herself into. She set down her book with a sigh. It didn't help that she was alone in the library-- Magnus was in and out of the infirmary, where Mark was helping him set up equipment to mix the binding spell cure, and Dru was helping Alec look after the children in one of the spare rooms. Livvy, Ty, and Kit had gone to pick up the supplies from Hypatia Vex's shop. Bridget had been in and out with trays of sandwiches and tea, muttering that she was worked off her feet and that the house was more crowded than a train station. Kieran was . . . nowhere. Cristina had grown used to a certain amount of controlled chaos in Los Angeles, but she found herself longing for the quiet of the Mexico City Institute, the silence of her mother's rose garden, and even the dreamy afternoons she'd spent with Diego and sometimes Jaime in the Bosque de Chapultepec. And she missed Emma. Her thoughts were a whirl of confusion--everything was--and she wanted Emma to talk to her, Emma to braid her hair and tell her stupid jokes and make her laugh. Maybe Emma would be able to make some sense out of what had happened the night before. She reached for her phone, and then drew her hand back. She wasn't going to start texting Emma all her problems, not when they were in the middle of so much. She glanced resolutely out the window instead--and saw Kieran, crossing the courtyard. He was all in black. She didn't know where he'd gotten the clothes, but they made him look like a slender shadow under the gray and rainy sky that had replaced the morning's blue. His hair was blue-black, his hands hidden by gloves. There was no rule that Kieran wasn't supposed to leave the Institute, not really. But he hated the city, Mark had said. Cold iron and steel everywhere. And besides, they were meant to keep him safe with them, not let him slip away before he could testify in front of the Clave. Not let anything happen to him. And maybe he was upset. Maybe he was angry at Mark, jealous, though he hadn't shown it the night before. She slid off the windowsill. Kieran was already slipping through the opening of the gate, into the rainy shadows beyond, where he seemed to flicker and vanish, as faeries did. Cristina dashed out of the library. She thought she heard someone call after her as she ran down the hallway, but she didn't dare pause. Kieran was fast. She'd lose him. There was no time to stop to put on a Soundless rune, no time to look for her stele. She hurried down the stairs and grabbed up a jacket hanging on a peg in the entryway. She slid her arms into it and ducked out into the courtyard. A throb went through her wrist, a warning ache that she was leaving Mark behind. She ignored it, following Kieran through the gate. Maybe he wasn't doing anything wrong, she told herself, trying to be fair. He wasn't a prisoner in the Institute. Maybe Mark knew about this. Kieran was hurrying down the narrow street, slipping from shadow to shadow. There was something furtive about the way he moved. Cristina was sure of it. She kept to the side of the road as she followed him. The streets were deserted, damp with a sprinkling of rain. Without a glamour rune, Cristina was intensely conscious of not being spotted by a mundane--her runes were very visible, and she couldn't be sure they wouldn't react in a way that would tip Kieran off. She worried that eventually they'd reach a busier street, and she'd be seen. Her arm was more than throbbing now; a sharp pain was lancing through it, as if a steel wire was being tightened around her wrist. Yet as Kieran moved deeper into the heart of the city, the streets seemed to grow narrower rather than wider. The electric lights dimmed. The small iron fences around the trees vanished, and the branches above her began to reach together across the roads, forming a green canopy. Kieran walked ahead of her steadily, a shadow among shadows. Finally they reached a square of brick buildings facing inward, their fronts covered in ivy and green trellises. In the center of the square was a small patch of ordinary city greenery: a few trees, flat, well-cared-for grass, and a stone fountain in the middle. The faint splashing of water was audible as Cristina slipped behind a tree, pressing herself against the bark, and peered around the side at Kieran. He had paused by the fountain, and a figure in a green cloak was approaching him, leisurely, from the far side of the small park. His face was familiar: He had soft brown skin and eyes that gleamed even in the darkness. His hands were long and slender; under the cloak, he wore a doublet worked with the broken crown of the Unseelie Court. It was Adaon. "Kieran," he said wearily. "Why did you summon me?" Kieran gave a small bow. Cristina could sense that he was nervous. It was surprising, that she knew Kieran enough to know when he was nervous. She would have said he was a near stranger. "Adaon, my brother," he said. "I need your help. I need what you know of spells." Kieran s brother arched an eyebrow. "I would not set to casting spells in the mundane world, were I you, little dark one. You are among Nephilim, and they will disapprove, as will the warlocks and witches of this place." "I do not want to cast a spell. I want to undo one. A binding spell." "Ah," said Adaon. "Who does it bind?" "Mark," said Kieran. "Mark," Adaon echoed, a little mockingly. "What is so special about him, that you care if he is bound? Or should he be bound only to you?" "I would not want that," Kieran said fiercely. "I would never want that. He should love me freely." "Binding is not love, though it can reveal feelings otherwise buried." Adaon looked thoughtful. "I had not imagined I would hear you speak so, little dark one. When you were a child, you took what you wanted with no thought of the cost." "No one in the Wild Hunt remains a child," said Kieran. "It is a pity you were sent away," said Adaon. "You would have made a good King after our father, and the Court loved you." Kieran shook his head. "I would not want to be King." "Because you would have to give up Mark," said Adaon. "But every king gives up something. It is the nature of kings." "But kings are not in my nature." Kieran tilted his head back to look up at his taller brother. "I think you are the one who would make a ruler, brother. Someone to bring peace back to the Lands." "This is not just about a binding spell, is it?" said Adaon. "There is something else to all of this. Our father believes you have taken refuge with Shadowhunters to escape his wrath; I admit, I assumed the same. Is there more?" "There might be," said Kieran. "I know you will not move against our father, but I also know you do not like him, or find his rule fair. If the throne were open, would you take it?" "Kieran," said Adaon. "These are not things of which we speak." "There has been bloodshed for so long, and no hope," said Kieran. "This is not about my safety alone. You must believe that." "What are you planning, Kieran?" said Adaon. "What trouble have you gotten yourself into now?" A hand clapped itself across Cristina's mouth. Another arm whipped around her, securing her. Her body jackknifed in surprise and she felt the grip on her loosen. She jerked her head backward, felt her skull connect with someone's face, and heard a yowl of pain. "Who's there?" Adaon spun, hand on the hilt of his blade. "Show yourself!" Something dug into Cristina's throat--something long and sharp. The blade of a knife. She froze. "We should go," Emma whispered. She didn't ask Julian what Annabel had meant. She suspected they both knew. Something dark and slippery flashed by across the transept, something that moved with a grotesque fluidity. The room seemed to darken. Emma wrinkled her nose--the rotten smell of demonic presence was suddenly all around, as if she'd opened a box full of a horrible potpourri. Julian's face was luminous-pale in the shadows. He crumpled up the letter in his hand and they began to back out of the church, taking careful steps, the seraph blade offering flickering illumination. They were halfway to the exit when there was an enormous crash-- the two big front doors of the church had slammed shut. Faintly, Emma heard the giggle of a piskie. They spun around as the altar overturned. It hit the ground with a shattering thud. "You go left," Emma whispered. "I'll go right." Julian slipped away noiselessly. Emma could still sense him there, his presence nearby. They had paused to rune each other halfway from the town to the church, looking out over Talland Bay and the blue ocean. Her runes prickled alive now as she slipped down the row of a pew and made her way along the inside wall of the church. She had reached the nave. Shadows gathered thickly here, but her Night Vision rune was sparking and she was finding it easier to see in the dark. She could see the overturned altar, the huge blot of dried blood that stained the stone floor. There was a bloody handprint on one of the nearby pillars. It looked wrong and horrible, inside a church like this; it made Emma think of an Institute defiled. Of Sebastian, spilling blood at the threshold of the Los Angeles stronghold of the Shadowhunters. She flinched, and for just that moment of memory, her focus was diverted. Something flickered at the edge of her vision, just as Julian's voice exploded in her ears: "Emma, look out!" Emma flung herself sideways, away from the flickering shadow. She landed on the overturned altar and spun around to see a rippling horror rising in front of her. It was scarlet- black, the color of blood--it was blood, formed of clotted, sludgy scarlet, with two burning white eyes. Its hands ended in flat points like the tip of a shovel, each with a single black, curved talon protruding from it. The talons dripped with a thin, lucent slime. It spoke. Blood poured from its mouth, a black slash in its scarlet face. "I am Sabnock of Thule. How dare you stand before me, ugly human?" Emma was surprised not to be called Shadowhunter--most demons knew the Nephilim. But she didn't show it. "How personal," she said. "I'm hurt." "I do not understand your words." Sabnock slipped toward her. Emma edged backward on the altar. She could feel Julian somewhere behind her; she knew he was there, without looking. "Most don't," she said. "It's a burden, being sarcastic." "Blood drew me here," it said. "Blood is what I am. Blood spilled in hate and anger. Blood spilled in frustrated love. Blood spilled in despair." "You're a demon," Emma said, holding Cortana out, straight and level. "I don't really need to know why or how. I just need you to go back where you came from." "I came from blood, and to blood I will return," said the demon, and leaped, talons and teeth bared. Emma hadn't even realized it had teeth, but there they were, like shards of red glass. She flipped backward, somersaulting away from the creature. It hit the altar with the sound of fluid smacking against something solid. The world spun around Emma as she turned. She felt utterly cold down to her bones, the freezing calm of battle that slowed everything in the world around her. She landed, straightening. The demon was crouched at the edge of the altar, snarling. It leaped again, and this time she slashed at it, a swift upward thrust. Cortana met no resistance. It slid through the creature's shoulder; blood splashed onto Emma's wrist and forearm. Slimy, clotted, foul blood. She gagged as the thing spun like a tornado, whipping out at her with its glassine claw. They twirled across the floor of the church in a sort of dance, Cortana flashing and gleaming. It was impossible to wound the thing--hacking and slashing at it only opened up a temporary gap, like a dent in water, that closed up immediately. She didn't dare take her eyes off the demon long enough to look around for Julian. She knew he was there, but he felt farther away, as if he'd gone to the other side of the church. She couldn't see the distant, flashing star of his seraph blade, either. Jules, she thought. A little help now would be good. With a frustrated growl, the demon charged again. Emma swung, an overhead two-fisted slash, and the demon howled; she'd smashed a few of its teeth in. A sharp pain lanced up her arm. She twisted the sword, grinding it into the demon's head, breathing in the pleasure of its screams. Light exploded into the world. She staggered back, her eyes burning. A square was opening in the roof above, like the sunroof of a car peeling back. She saw a shadow against the sun; Julian, perched on one of the church's highest rafters, and then the sunlight speared down through the gap and the demon began to burn. It shrieked as it burned. Its edges blackening, it staggered back. The room stank of boiling blood. Julian dropped from the rafters, landing on the altar: His stele was in one hand, his seraph blade in the other. She held out her free hand, the one that wasn't clasping Cortana, toward him. He knew what she wanted, without asking. The seraph blade arced through the air toward her like a firework. Emma caught it, spun, and drove the blade into the weakened, burning demon. With a last shriek, it vanished. The silence that came after was stunning. Emma gasped, her ears ringing, and turned to Jules. "That was awesome --" Jules flung himself down from the altar, grabbing the ichor-smeared seraph blade out of her hand. It was already starting to warp out of shape, choked with demon blood. He hurled it aside and grabbed Emma's hand, flipping it over so he could see the long scratch that ran from the back of her palm up her forearm. He was stark white. "What happened? Did it bite you?" "Not exactly. I sliced myself on its teeth." He ran his fingers up her arm. She winced. It was a long and narrow cut, but not shallow. "It doesn't burn? Or sting?" "I'm fine," she said. "Jules. I'm fine." He stared at her for a moment. His eyes were fierce and tearless in the harsh light from above. He turned away without another word and stalked down the aisle of the church, toward the doors. Emma looked down at her hand. Her wound was quite ordinary, she thought; it would need to be cleaned, but it wasn't anything out of the usual in terms of injuries sustained in battle. She slid Cortana back into its sheath and followed Julian out of the church. For a moment, she didn't see him at all. It was as if he'd vanished, and all that was left was the view from the church. Green fields fading away into a wash of blue: blue sea, blue sky, the blue haze of distant hills. She heard a cry, thin and faint, and ran toward it, toward the graveyard where headstones thinned and faded by time tilted back and forth like a pack of scattered playing cards. There was a loud squeak. "Let me go! Let me go !" Emma spun around and saw the grass moving; the smallest piskie was wriggling madly, pinned to the ground by Jules, whose bleakly cold expression sent a shiver through Emma. "You locked us in with that thing," Julian said, his arm across the piskie's throat. "Didn't you?" "Didn't know it was there! Didn't know!" squeaked the piskie, twisting under Julian's hold. "What's the difference?" Emma protested. "Julian. Don't--" "Necromancy happened in that church. It tore open a hole between dimensions that let a demon through. It could have ripped us to shreds." "Didn't know!" the piskie whined. "Who didn't know?" Julian demanded. "Because I'll bet anything you did." The piskie went limp, boneless. Julian pinned it with a knee. "The lady said to tell you to go there. She said you were dangerous. Would kill faeries." "I might now," said Julian. "It's all right, Jules," Emma said. She knew the piskie wasn't the innocent, childlike creature it appeared to be. But something about seeing it twist and whimper made her feel sick. "It's not all right. You were hurt," Julian said, and the cold tone in his voice made her remember the look on his face when Anselm Nightshade was led away. Julian, you scared me a little, she'd said at the time. But then, Nightshade had been guilty. Clary had said so. "Leave him alone!" It was another one of the piskies, wavering palely in the grass. A female piskie, judging from clothes and hair length. She waved her hands ineffectually at Julian. "He doesn't know anything!" Julian didn't move. He stared icily down at the faerie. He looked like a statue of an avenging angel, something blank and pitiless. "Don't come near us again," he said. "Speak of this to no one. Or we will find you, and I will make you pay." The piskie nodded jerkily. Julian stood up, and the piskies vanished as if the ground had swallowed them up. "Did you have to scare them so much?" Emma said, a little hesitantly. Julian still had that frighteningly blank expression on his face, as if his body was here but his mind was a million miles away. "Better scared than making trouble." Julian turned to her. A little of the color was coming back to his skin. "You need an iratze." "It's all right. It doesn't hurt that much, and besides, I want to clean it first." Iratzes could heal skin over any wound, but sometimes that meant sealing in infection or dirt. Concern flickered in his eyes. "Then we should go back to the cottage. But first, I need your help with something." Emma thought of the broken altar, the spilled blood, and groaned. "Don't say cleaning up." "We're not going to clean the church up," said Julian. "We're going to burn it down." Whoever was holding Cristina was strong, stronger than a mundane human. "Now step forward, and do as I say," said the voice behind her, breathless but low and confident. She found herself shoved ahead into the center of the park. She was hauled toward the fountain, and the two faeries standing there. Both of them stared--Kieran at her, his brother a little above her head. "Erec," Adaon said, sounding weary. "What are you doing here?" "I followed you." Erec's voice echoed behind Cristina. She remembered him with a flare of hate, remembered him in Faerie, Julian's knife against his throat as his was against her own now. "I was curious as to your purpose here. And I wanted to see our little brother, too." "Let her go," Kieran said, with a gesture toward Cristina. He didn't meet her eyes. "She's nothing to do with this. Just a Shadowhunter spying without my knowledge." "You said she's nothing to do with you," Erec sneered. "Not that you don't care." Hot silver pain flashed at Cristina's throat. She felt the warmth of blood. She stiffened her spine, refusing to flinch. "Leave her be." Kieran's face was a pale mask of rage. "Do you want the Nephilim after you, Erec? Are you a fool? I know you're a torturer--you used to torture me." He took a step toward Cristina and Erec. "Do you remember? You made these." He shoved his loose black sleeves up, and Cristina saw the long scars on his arms. "And the ones on my back." "You were a soft child," said Erec. "Too soft to be the son of a King. Kindness has no place in the court of a broken crown." He chuckled. "Besides, I come with news. Father has sent the Seven." Kieran paled even further. "Mannan's Seven? Sent them where?" "Here. To the mundane world. They are tasked to retrieve the Black Volume, now that the death of Malcolm Fade is known. They will find it, and before you do." "The Black Volume is nothing to do with me," said Kieran. "But it is to do with our father," said Adaon. "He has wanted it since the First Heir was stolen." "Longer than he has hated the Nephilim?" Kieran said. Erec spat. "Those Nephilim you love so. They are a doomed race. You are wasting yourself, Kieran, when you could be much more." "Let him be, Erec," Adaon said. "What do you imagine Father would do if Kieran came home, besides kill him?" "If Father was still alive to kill anyone." "Enough scheming!" roared Adaon. "Enough, Erec!" "Then let him prove he's loyal!" Erec removed the knife from Cristina's throat with a sudden gesture; she spluttered and coughed. Her wrist was searing pain and Erec's hands were iron bands around her upper arms. He shoved her forward, toward his brothers, without releasing his grip. "Kill the Shadowhunter," he shouted at Kieran. "Adaon, give him your blade. Run it through her heart, Kieran. Show you are loyal and I will intercede for you with Father. You can be welcomed back at Court instead of killed or exiled to the Hunt." Adaon put his hand to his side, to sieze his sword, but Kieran had already seized it. Cristina struggled, kicking out, but she couldn't dislodge Erec's grip. Terror rose up in her as Kieran came toward them both, the faerie sword glimmering in his hand, his eyes flat as mirrors. Cristina began to pray. Angel, keep me safe. Raziel, help me. She kept her eyes open. She wouldn't close them. That was a coward's way to die. If the Angel wanted her to die now, she'd die on her feet with her eyes open like Jonathan Shadowhunter. She would-- Kieran's eyes flickered, minutely, his head tilting. She followed the movement, suddenly understanding, as he lifted the sword in his hand. He swung it forward--and she ducked her head. The sword sliced through the air cleanly above her. Something hot and wet and copper- smelling spilled across her back. She cried out, pivoting away as Erec's arms released her, his throat severed to the spine, his body crumpling to the pebbled path. "Kieran," Adaon breathed in horror. Kieran stood over Erec's body, the blood-smeared sword in his hand. "What have you done?" "He would have killed her," Kieran said. "And she is my--and Mark--" Cristina caught at the fountain to hold herself up. Her legs felt numb. The pain in her arm was fire. Adaon strode forward and snatched the sword from Kieran's hand. "Iarlath was not your blood," he said. His skin looked tight with shock. "But Erec was. You will be denounced a kin- slayer if anyone discovers what you have done." Kieran raised his head. His eyes burned into his brother's. "Will you tell them?" Adaon jerked the hood up over his face. Wind had begun to blow through the square--a cold, sharp squall of it. Adaon's cloak flapped like wings. "Go, Kieran. Seek the safety of the Institute." Adaon bent over Erec's body. It was twisted at a violent angle, blood running among the pebbles and grass. As he knelt, Kieran started to walk out of the park--and stopped. Slowly, he turned back and looked at Cristina. "Aren't you coming?" "Yes." She was surprised at the steadiness of her own voice, but her body betrayed her-- when she stood upright, agony shot through her arm, down into her side, and she doubled over, gasping. A moment later there were hands on her, none too gentle, and she felt herself lifted off the ground. She started in surprise--Kieran had picked her up and was carrying her from the park. She let her arms dangle, not knowing what else to do. She was speechless. Despite the dancing the night before, it was bizarre to be held by Kieran like this. Mark had been there, then--and now they were alone. "Do not be foolish," said Kieran. "Put your arms around me. I do not want to drop you and then have to explain matters to Mark." He would have killed her. And she is my--and Mark -- She wondered what he'd meant to say. Mark would have been angry ? Mark would have been disappointed ? She is my friend? No, he couldn't have meant that. Kieran didn't like her. She was sure of it. And maybe that hadn't been what he'd said at all. Her memories were becoming blurred with pain. They were passing down a street whose lights seemed to change from gas to electric as they went. Illumination blinked on in windows overhead. Cristina raised her arms and put them around Kieran's neck. She laced her fingers together, biting her lip against the pain of the binding spell. Kieran's hair tickled her fingers. It was soft, surprisingly so. His skin was incredibly fine- grained, more so than any human's, like the surface of polished porcelain. She remembered Mark kissing Kieran against a tree in the desert, hands on his hair, pushing the neck of his sweater down to get at his skin, his bones, his body. She blushed. "Why did you follow me?" Kieran said stiffly. "I saw you through the library window," said Cristina. "I thought you were running away." "I went to see Adaon, as I promised I would, that is all. Besides"-- he laughed shortly --"where have I to go?" "People often run even when they have nowhere to go," said Cristina. "It is all about what you can bear in the place where you are." There was a long silence, long enough that Cristina assumed Kieran wasn't planning to answer. Then he spoke. "I have the sense," he said, "that I have done Mark some kind of wrong. I do not know what it was. But I see it in his eyes when he looks at me. He thinks he is hiding it, but he is not. Though he can lie with his mouth, he has never learned to conceal the truth in his eyes." "You'll have to ask Mark," said Cristina. They had reached the street that led to the Institute. Cristina could see the spire of it rising in the distance. "When Adaon said that if you became King, you'd have to give up Mark, what did he mean?" "A King of Faerie can have no human consort." He looked down at her with his eyes like stars. "Mark lies about you. But I have seen the way he looks at you. Last night, when we danced. He more than desires you." "Do--do you mind?" Cristina said. "I do not mind you," said Kieran. "I thought I would, but I do not. It is something about you. You are beautiful, and you are kind, and you are--good. I do not know why that should make a difference. But it does." He sounded almost surprised. Cristina said nothing. Her blood was getting on Kieran's shirt. It was a surreal sight. His body was warm, not cold as marble as she'd always imagined. He smelled faintly of night and woods, a clean smell untouched by the city. "Mark needs kindness," Kieran said, after a long pause. "And so do I." They'd reached the Institute, and Kieran went quickly up the stairs--and paused at the top. His arms tautened around her. Cristina looked at him, puzzled. Then the light dawned. "You can't open the door," she said. "You're not a Shadowhunter." "That is the case." Kieran blinked at the doors as if they'd surprised him. "What if you'd come back without me?" Cristina had the most bizarre urge to laugh, though nothing that had happened had been funny, and Erec's blood still stiffened the back of her clothes. She wondered how many times she'd have to shower before she felt even a little clean. "I really would have imagined you'd thought further ahead." "I seem to have absorbed some of your human impulsiveness," Kieran said. He sounded shocked at himself. Taking pity on him, Cristina began to unknot her fingers from around his neck. She reached for the door, but it swung inward. Light blazed out of the entryway, and on the threshold stood Mark, staring from one of them to the other in astonishment. "Where were you?" he demanded. "By the Angel--Kieran, Cristina--" He reached out as if to take her from Kieran's arms. "It's all right," Cristina said. "I can stand." Kieran gently lowered her to the ground. The pain in her arm was already beginning to fade, though looking at Mark's wrist--red, puffy, ringed with blood--filled her with guilt. It was so hard to believe, even now, that the pain she felt was his pain too; her bleeding, his bleeding. Mark drew his hand down her sleeve, already hardening as Erec's blood dried. "All this blood--it's not just your wrist--and why would you go out, either of you--?" "It is not her blood," said Kieran. "It is my brother's." They were all in the entryway now. Kieran reached behind him and deliberately shut the massive front doors with a loud clang. Above them, Cristina could hear footsteps, someone hurrying downstairs. "Your brother's?" Mark echoed. Against Kieran's dark clothes the blood hadn't been very visible, but Mark seemed to look more closely now and see the thin spatters of scarlet against Kieran's neck and cheek. "You mean--Adaon?" Kieran looked dazed. "I went to meet him, to speak of the binding spell and of his possible accession to the throne." "And blood was spilled? But why?" Mark touched Kieran's cheek gently. "If we had known there might be a fight, we never would have suggested you talk to him on our behalf. And why did you go alone? Why did you not tell me, or bring me with you?" Kieran closed his eyes for just a moment, turning his cheek into the cup of Mark's palm. "I did not want to risk you," he said in a low voice. Mark met Cristina's eyes, over Kieran's shoulder. "It wasn't Adaon who wanted a fight," she said, rubbing her wrist. "It was Erec." Kieran opened his eyes, gently drawing Mark's hand away from his face, lacing his fingers through Mark's as he did. "He must have followed Adaon to our meeting place," he said. "I never even had the chance to tell Adaon of our plans for him, and the throne." His eyes darkened. "Mark, there is something you must know--" Magnus burst into the vestibule, Alec behind him. They were both out of breath. "What's going on?" Alec asked. "Where are the children?" Kieran said. "The little ones, and the blue child with the small horns?" Alec blinked. "Bridget's watching them," he said. "Why?" "I will explain in more detail when I can," said Kieran. "For now, you must know this. The King my father has sent the Seven Riders to find the Black Volume, and they are here in London. I imagine he believes the location of the Black Volume is known by those in this Institute. The danger is great. We are safe within these walls for now, but--" Mark had gone white. "But Livvy and Ty aren't within these walls," he said. "They went with Kit to get the ingredients for the binding spell. They're somewhere in the city." There was a babble of voices, Alec snapping out a question, Magnus gesturing. But the pain and shock--not just hers, but Mark's--was graying out Cristina's vision, however much she tried to cling onto consciousness. She tried to say something but the words disappeared, everything sliding up and away from her as she tumbled into the shadows. She wasn't sure whether it was Mark or Kieran who caught her as she fell. Rain clouds had replaced blue sky over London. Ty, Kit, and Livvy had decided to walk back from Hypatia's after picking up Magnus's ingredients, rather than wait in the fussy, damp line for the riverboat. Kit was enjoying himself kicking his way through puddles on the Thames Path, which wound like a granite snake along the side of the river. They'd passed the Tower of London again, and Ty had pointed out Traitor's Gate, where condemned criminals had once entered the tower to have their heads chopped off. Livvy had sighed. "I wish Dru was with us. She would have liked that. She's hardly come out of her room lately." "I think she's afraid someone will make her babysit if she does," said Kit. He wasn't sure he had a clear impression of Dru yet--more a blurred sense of a round face, flushed cheeks, and a lot of black clothes. She had the Blackthorn eyes, but they were usually focused on something else. "I think she's keeping a secret," Livvy said. They'd passed Millennium Bridge, a long iron line stretching across the river, and were nearing an older-looking bridge, painted a dented red and gray. Ty was humming to himself, lost in thought. The river was the same color as his eyes today, a sort of steely-gray, touched with bits of silver. The white band of his headphones was around his neck, trapping his unruly black hair under it. He looked puzzled. "Why would she do that?" "It's just a feeling I have," said Livvy. "I can't prove it. . . ." Her voice trailed off. She was squinting into the distance, her hand up to shield her face from the gray afternoon light. "What's that?" Kit followed her glance and felt a coldness pass through him. Shapes were moving through the sky, a line of racing figures, silhouetted against the clouds. Three horses, clear as paper outlines, with three riders on their backs. He looked around wildly. Mundanes were all around, paying little to no attention to the three teenagers in jeans and hooded raincoats hurrying along with their bags full of magic powders. "The Wild Hunt?" Kit said. "But why--?" "I don't think it's the Wild Hunt," said Livvy. "They ride at night. It's broad daylight." She put her hand to her side, where her seraph blades hung. "I don't like this." Ty sounded breathless. The figures were incredibly close now, skimming the top of the bridge, angling downward. "They're coming toward us." They turned, but it was too late. Kit felt a breeze ruffle his hair as the horses and their riders passed overhead. A moment later there was a clatter as the three landed in a neat pattern around Kit, Livvy, and Ty, cutting off their retreat. The horses were a glimmering bronze in color, and their riders were bronze-skinned and bronze-haired, wearing half masks of gleaming metal. They were beautiful, bizarre and unearthly, entirely out of place in the shadows of the bridge as the water taxis skated by and the road above hummed with traffic. They were clearly faeries, but nothing like the ones Kit had seen before in the Shadow Market. They were taller and bigger, and they were armed, despite the edicts of the Cold Peace. Each wore a massive sword at his waist. "Nephilim," said one, in a voice that sounded like glaciers breaking apart. "I am Eochaid of the Seven Riders, and these are my brothers Etarlam and Karn. Where is the Black Volume?" "The Black Volume?" Livvy echoed. The three of them had squeezed tighter against the wall of the path. Kit noticed people giving them odd glances as they passed by, and he knew they looked as if they were staring at nothing. "Yes," said Etarlam. "Our King seeks it. You will give it up." "We don't have it," said Ty. "And we don't know where it is." Karn laughed. "You are but children, so we are inclined to be lenient," he said. "But understand this. The Riders of Mannan have done the bidding of the Unseelie King for a thousand years. In that time many have fallen to our blades, and we have spared none for any reason, not for age or weakness or infirmity of body. We will not spare you now." He leaned over the mane of his horse, and Kit saw for the first time that the horse had a shark's eyes, inky and flat and deadly. "Either you know where the Black Volume is, or you will make useful prisoners to tempt those who do. Which will it be, Shadowhunters?" <|title|>Chapter 23: Skies of Fire <|startofchapter|>"I win again." Jaime threw down his cards: all hearts. He grinned triumphantly at Dru. "Don't feel bad. Cristina used to say I had the devil's luck." "Wouldn't the devil have bad luck?" Dru didn't mind losing to Jaime. He always seemed pleased, and she didn't care one way or the other. He'd slept on the floor at the side of her bed the night before, and when she'd woken up, she'd rolled over and looked down at him, her chest full of happiness. Asleep, Jaime looked vulnerable, and more like his brother, though she thought now that he was better-looking than Diego. Jaime was a secret, her secret. Something important she was doing, whether the others knew it or not. She knew he was on an important mission, something he couldn't talk much about; it was like having a spy in her room, or a superhero. "I will miss you," he said frankly, linking his fingers together and stretching out his arms like a cat stretching in the sun. "This is the most fun, and the most rest, I have had in a long time." "We can stay friends after this, right?" she said. "I mean, when you're done with your mission." "I don't know when I'll be done." A shadow crossed his face. Jaime was much quicker of mood than his brother: He could be happy, then sad, then thoughtful, then laughing in a five-minute period. "It could be a long time." He looked at her sideways. "You may come to resent me. I've made you keep secrets from your family." "They keep secrets from me," she said. "They think I'm too young to know anything." Jaime frowned. Dru felt a little pinch of worry--they'd never discussed how old she was; why would they have? Usually, though, people thought she was at least seventeen. Her curves were bigger than other girls' her age, and Dru was used to boys staring at them. So far Jaime hadn't stared, at least not the way other boys did, as if they had a right to her body. As if she ought to be grateful for the attention. And she'd discovered she desperately didn't want him to know she was only thirteen. "Well, Julian does," she went on. "And Julian's pretty much in charge of everything. The thing is, when we were all younger, we were all just 'the kids.' But after my parents died, and Julian basically brought us all up, we split into groups. I got labeled 'younger' and Julian was suddenly older, like a parent." "I know what that is like," he said. "Diego and I used to play like puppies when we were children. Then he grew up and decided he had to save the world and started ordering me around." "Exactly," she said. "That's exactly right." He reached down to pull his duffel bag onto the bed. "I can't stay much longer," he said. "But before I go--I have something for you." He pulled a laptop computer out of the bag. Dru stared at him--he wasn't going to give her a laptop, was he? He flipped it open, a grin spreading across his face. It was a Peter Pan sort of grin, one that said that he would never be done with mischief. "I downloaded The House That Dripped Blood," he said. "I thought we could watch it together." Dru clapped her hands together and scrambled up onto the mattress beside him. He scooted over, giving her plenty of room. She watched him as he tilted the screen toward them so they could both see. She could read the words that curled up his arm, though she didn't know what they meant. La sangre sinfuego hierve. "And yes," he said, as the first images began to unroll across the screen. "I hope we will in the future be friends." "Jules," Emma said, leaning against the wall of the church. "Are you sure this is a good idea? Doesn't there seem something kind of sacrilegious about burning down a church?" "It's abandoned. Unhallowed." Julian pushed his jacket sleeves up. He was marking himself with a Strength rune, neatly and precisely, on the inside of his forearm. Behind him Emma could see the curve of the bay, the water dashing itself in blue curls against the shore. "Still--we respect all religions. Every religion tithes to Shadowhunters. That's how we live. This seems--" "Disrespectful?" Julian smiled with little humor. "Emma, you didn't see what I saw. What Malcolm did. He ripped apart the fabric of what made this church a hallowed place. He spilled blood, and then his blood was spilled. And when a church becomes a slaughterhouse like that, it's worse than if it was some other kind of building." He raked a hand through his hair. "Remember what Valentine did with the Mortal Sword? When he took it from the Silent City?" Emma nodded. Everyone knew the story. It was part of Shadowhunter history. "He changed its alliance from seraphic to infernal. Changed it from good to evil." "And this church has been changed too." He craned his head back to look up at the tower. "As sacrosanct a place as it once was, it's that unholy now. And demons will keep being attracted to it, and keep coming through, and they won't stay put here--they'll come to the village. They'll be a danger to the mundanes who live there. And to us." "Tell me this isn't just you wanting to burn down a church because you want to make a statement." Julian smiled at her blandly--the sort of smile that made everyone love him and trust him, that made him seem harmless. Forgettable even. But Emma saw through it to the razor blades beneath. "I don't think anyone wants to hear any statements I have to make." Emma sighed. "It's a stone building. You can't just draw a Fire rune on it and expect it to go up like matches." He looked at her levelly. "I remember what happened in the car," he said. "When you healed me. I know what a rune that's made when we draw on each other's energy can do." "You want my help for this?" Julian turned so he was facing the wall of the church, a gray sheet of granite, punctuated by boarded-up windows. Grass grew out of control around their feet, starred with dandelions. In the far distance Emma could hear the cries of children on the beach. He reached out with his stele and drew on the stone of the wall. The rune flickered, tiny flames lapping at its edge. Fire. But the flames died down quickly, absorbed into the stone. "Put your hands on me," Julian said. "What?" Emma wasn't sure she'd heard him right. "It would help if we were touching," he said in a matter-of-fact manner. "Put your hands on my back, maybe, or my shoulders." Emma moved up behind him. He was taller than her; lifting her hands to his shoulders would mean stretching her body into an awkward position. This close to him, she could feel the expansion of his rib cage when he breathed, see the tiny freckles on the back of his neck where the wind had blown his hair sideways. The arc of broad shoulders into narrower waist and hips, the length of his legs. She placed her hands on his waist, as if she were riding behind him on a motorcycle, under his jacket but on top of his T-shirt. His skin was warm through the cotton. "All right," she said. Her breath moved his hair; a shiver went over his skin. She could feel it. She swallowed. "Go ahead." She half-closed her eyes as the stele scratched against the wall. He smelled like cut grass, which wasn't surprising, considering he'd been rolling in it with the struggling piskie. "Why wouldn't anyone want to hear them?" she asked. "Hear what?" Julian reached up. His T-shirt rose, and Emma found her hands on bare skin, taut over oblique muscles. Her breath caught. "Any statements you had to make about, you know, anything," Emma said, as his feet settled back onto the ground. Her hands were tangled in the fabric of his shirt now. She looked up to see a second Fire rune: This one was deeper, darker, and the flames at its edges shone brightly. The stone around it began to crack-- And the fire went out. "It might not work," Emma said. Her heart was pounding. She wanted this to work, and at the same time she didn't. Their runes ought to be more powerful when created together; that was the case for all parabatai. But there was a limit to that power. Unless two parabatai were in love with each other. Jem had made it sound as if their power, then, could be almost infinite --that it might grow until it destroyed them. Julian no longer loved her; she'd seen it in the way he'd kissed that faerie girl. Still, it would be hard to have to watch the proof. But maybe it would be the best thing for her. She'd have to face reality sooner rather than later. She slid her arms around Julian, clasping them together across his stomach. The act pressed her body up against his, her chest flush against his back. She felt him tense in surprise. "Try one more time," she said. "Go slowly." She heard his breathing quicken. His arm went up, and the stele began to scratch out another rune against the stone. Instinctively, her hands moved up his chest. She heard the stele hitch and skip. Her palm settled over his heart. It was hammering, slamming against the inside of his rib cage. Julian's heartbeat. The hundred thousand other times she had heard or felt it crashed into her like an express train. Six years old, she had fallen off a wall she was balanced on and Julian had caught her; they had fallen together, and she had heard his heartbeat. She remembered the pulse in his throat as he held the Mortal Sword in the Council Hall. Racing each other up the beach, putting her fingers to his wrist and counting the beats per minute of his heart afterward. The syncopated rhythm as their heartbeats matched during the parabatai ceremony. The sound of the roar of his blood when he carried her out of the ocean. The steady beat of his heart as she'd laid her head on his chest that night. Her body shuddered with the force of memory, and she felt its strength pulse through her, and into Julian, driving the force of the rune like a whip up through his arm, his hand, the stele. Fire. Julian drew in his breath sharply, dropping his stele; the tip was glowing red. He reeled back and Emma's hands fell away from him; she nearly stumbled, but he caught her, pulling her away from the building, into the churchyard. Both panting, they stared: The rune Julian had drawn on the wall of the church had seared its way straight through the stone. The boards over the windows cracked, and orange tongues of flame leaped out. Julian looked at Emma. The fire sparkled and crackled in his eyes, more than a reflection. "We did that," he said, his voice rising. "We did that." Emma stared back at him. She was clutching his arms, just above the elbows, muscle hard under her fingers. Jules seemed lit from within, burning with excitement. His skin was hot to the touch. Their eyes met. And it was Julian, her Julian, no shutters down over his expression, nothing hidden, only the clear brilliance of his eyes and the heat in his gaze. Emma felt as if her heart was tearing apart her chest. She could hear the hard crackle of the flames all around them. Julian moved toward her, closer, splintering her awareness of the need to keep him distant, of anything else but him. The sound of sirens echoed in Emma's ears, the howl of the fire brigade, hurtling toward the church. Julian drew away from her, only far enough to clasp her hand. They fled from the church just as the first of the fire engines arrived. Mark didn't really know how they'd all gotten into the library. He vaguely remembered going to check on Tavvy--who was building an elaborate tower of blocks with Rafe and Max--and then to knock on Dru's door; she was in her room, and disinclined to come out, which seemed like a good situation. There was no reason to frighten her before it was necessary. Still, Mark would have liked to see her. With Julian and Helen gone, and now Ty and Livvy somewhere in London, in danger, he felt like a house whose foundations had been ripped out from under it. He was desperately grateful that Dru and Tavvy were both safe, and also that at the moment, they didn't need him. He didn't know how Julian had done it all those years: how you were supposed to be strong for other people when you didn't know how to be strong for yourself. He knew it was faintly ridiculous for him, an adult, to want the company of his thirteen-year-old sister to fortify his resolve, but there it was. And he was ashamed of it. He was conscious of Cristina, speaking in rapid-fire Spanish to Magnus. Of Kieran, leaning on one of the tables, his head hanging down: His hair was a purple-black color, like the darkest part of water. Alec returning from the hallway with a pile of clothes in his hands. "These are Ty's, Livvy's, and Kit's," he said, handing them to Magnus. "I got them from their rooms." Magnus looked over at Mark. "Still nothing on the phone?" Mark tried to breathe deeply. He'd called Emma and Julian as well as sending texts, but there had been no reply. Cristina had said she'd heard from Emma while she was in the library, and they both seemed to be fine. Mark knew that Emma and Julian were smart and careful, and that there was no better warrior than Emma. Worry pinched at his heart just the same. But he had to focus on Livvy and Ty and Kit. Kit had next to no training, and Livvy and Ty were so young. He knew he'd been the same age when he was taken by the Hunt, but they were children to him nonetheless. "Nothing from Emma and Jules," he said. "I've tried Ty a dozen, two dozen times already. No answer." He swallowed back the dread. There were a million reasons Ty might not pick up his phone that didn't have to do with the Riders. The Riders of Mannan. Even though he knew he was in the library of the London Institute, watching as Magnus Bane began passing his hands over the clothes, beginning the tracking spell, part of him was in Faerie, hearing the tales of the Riders, the murderous assassins of the Unseelie Court. They slept beneath a hill until they were wakened, usually in times of war. He'd heard them called the King's Hounds, for once they had a whiff of their prey, they could follow them across miles of sea, earth, and sky in order to take their lives. The King must want the Black Volume very badly, to have brought his Riders into it. In old days, they had hunted giants and monsters. Now they were hunting the Blackthorns. Mark felt cold all over. Mark could hear Magnus speaking in a low voice, also explaining the Seven: who they were and what they did. Alec had given Cristina a gray shirt that was probably Ty's; she was holding it, a Tracking rune on the back of her hand, but she was shaking her head even as she clutched it tighter. "It isn't working," she said. "Maybe if Mark tries--give him something of Livvy's--" A black flounced dress was shoved into Mark's hands. He couldn't picture his sister wearing something like it, but he didn't imagine that was the point. He held it tightly, sketching a clumsy Tracking rune onto the back of his right hand, trying to remember the way Shadowhunters did this--the way you blanked your mind, reached out into the nothingness, trying to find the spark of the person you sought at the other end of your own reaching imagination. But there was nothing there. The dress felt like a dead thing to his touch. There was no Livvy in it. There was no Livvy anywhere. He opened his eyes on a gasp. "I don't think this is going to work." Magnus looked confused. "But--" "Those are not their garments," said Kieran, lifting his head. "Do you not recall? Clothes were lent to them when they arrived here. I heard them complaining of it." Mark wouldn't have thought Kieran had been paying enough attention to what the Blackthorns had been saying to take note of such details. Apparently he had. But that was the way of Hunters, wasn't it? Seem as if you are paying no attention, but absorb every detail, Gwyn had often said. A Hunter's life can depend on what he knows. "Is there really nothing of theirs?" Magnus demanded, a slight edge of panic in his voice. "The clothes they were wearing when they got here--" "Bridget threw them away," said Cristina. "Their steles--" "They would have with them," said Mark. "Other weapons would be borrowed." His heart was hammering. "Isn't there anything you can do?" "What about Portaling to the Los Angeles Institute?" said Alec. "Grabbing some of their things from there--" Magnus had begun to pace. "It's barred from Portaling right now. Security concerns. I could look for a new spell, we could send someone to dismantle the block on the California Institute, but any of those things takes time--" "There is no time," said Kieran. He straightened up. "Let me go after the children," he said. "I pledge my life I will do everything I can to find them." "No," Mark said, rather savagely, and saw the stricken look that passed over Kieran's face. There was no time to explain or clarify, though. "Diana--" "Is in Idris and cannot help," said Kieran. Mark had slipped his hand into his pocket. His fingers closed on something small, smooth, and cold. "It might be time to summon the Silent Brothers," said Magnus. "Whatever the consequences." Cristina winced. Mark knew she was thinking of Emma and Jules, of the Clave meeting in Idris, of the ruination and danger the Blackthorns faced. A ruination that would have taken place on Mark's watch. Something that Julian would never have allowed to happen. Disasters did not happen on Jules's watch--not ones he couldn't fix. But Mark couldn't think of that. His whole mind, his heart, was filled with the image of his brother and sister in danger. And they were more than his brother and sister at that moment: He understood what Julian felt when he looked at them. These were his children, his responsibility, and he would die to save them. Mark drew his hand out of his pocket. The gold acorn glittered in the air as he threw it. It struck the opposite wall and broke open. Cristina whirled. "Mark, what are you--?" There was no visible change in the library, but a scent filled the room, and for a moment it was as if they stood in a glade in Faerie--Mark could smell fresh air, dirt and leaves, earth and flowers, copper-tinged water. Kieran had tensed all over, eyes full of a mixture of hope and fear. "Alec," Magnus said, reaching out a hand, and his voice was less a warning than a sort of stripped-down urgency--the uncanniness of Faerie had come into the room, and Magnus was moving to protect what he loved. Alec didn't move, though, only watched with steady blue eyes as a shadow rose against the far wall. A shadow with nothing to cast it. It stretched upward. The shadow of a man, head bent, broad shoulders slumped. Cristina put her hand to the pendant at her throat and murmured something--a prayer, Mark guessed. The light in the room increased. The shadow was no longer a shadow. It had taken on color and form and was Gwyn ap Nudd, arms crossed over his thick chest, two-colored eyes gleaming from beneath heavy brows. "Mark Blackthorn," he said, his voice a rumble. "I did not give that token to you, nor was it meant for you to use." "Are you really here?" Mark demanded, fascinated. Gwyn seemed solid enough, but if Mark looked closely, he thought he could see the edges of the window frames through Gwyn's body.... "He's a Projection," said Magnus. "Greetings, Gwyn ap Nudd, escort of the grave, father of the slain." He bowed very slightly. "Magnus Bane," said Gwyn. "It has been a long time." Alec kicked Magnus in the ankle--probably, Mark suspected, to keep Magnus from saying something about how it hadn't been long enough. "I need you, Gwyn," said Mark. "We need you." Gwyn looked disgruntled. "If I had wanted you to be able to call on me at your will, I would have given the acorn to you." "You called on me," Mark said. "You came to me to ask me to help Kieran, and so I rescued him from the Unseelie King, and now the Riders of Mannan are hunting my brothers and sisters, who are only children." "I have carried the bodies of countless children from the battlefield," said Gwyn. He did not mean to be cruel, Mark knew. Gwyn simply had his own reality, of blood and death and war. There was never a time of peace for Gwyn or the Wild Hunt: Somewhere in the world, there was always war, and it was their duty to serve it. "If you do not help," said Mark, "then you make yourself a servant of the Unseelie King, protecting his interests, his plans." "Is that your gambit?" Gwyn said softly. "It's no gambit," said Kieran. "The King my father means to wage a war; if you do not move to position yourself against him, he will presume you are with him." "The Hunt stands with no one," said Gwyn. "And that's precisely who will believe that is true, if you do not act now," said Mark. "No one." "The Hunt can find Livvy and Ty and Kit," said Cristina. "You are the greatest seekers the world has ever known, much greater than the Seven Riders." Gwyn gave her a slightly incredulous look, almost as if he couldn't believe she'd spoken at all. He looked half-amused, half-exasperated by her flattery. Kieran, on the other hand, looked impressed. "Very well," Gwyn said. "I will attempt it. I promise nothing," he added darkly, and vanished. Mark stood staring at the place Gwyn had vanished from, the blank wall of the library, unmarked by shadows. Cristina offered him a worried smile. Cristina was always a revelation, he thought. Gentle and honest, but astonishingly capable of plying faerie tricks if necessary. Her words to Gwyn had sounded utterly sincere. "He might sound reluctant, but if Gwyn says he will attempt something, he will leave no stone unturned," Magnus said. He looked absolutely exhausted in a way Mark didn't remember ever having seen him look before. Exhausted, and grim. "I'm going to need your help, Alec," he said. "It's time for me to Portal to Cornwall. We need to find Emma and Julian before the Riders do." The Council Hall clock was ringing through the Gard, sounding like the tolling of a huge bell. Diana, having finished her story some minutes ago, folded her hands atop the Consul's desk. "Please, Jia," she said. "Say something." The Consul rose from her seat behind the desk. She wore a flowing dress whose sleeves were edged with brocade. Her back was very straight. "It sounds like the work of demons," she said in a strained voice. "But there are no demons in Idris. Not since the Mortal War." The previous Consul had died in that war. Jia had remained in power since, and no demons had entered Idris. But demons were not the only beings who ever meant harm to Shadowhunters. "Helen and Aline would know had there been demon activity in Brocelind," Jia added. "There are all sorts of maps and charts and sensitive instruments at Wrangel Island. They saw when Malcolm broke the wards around your Institute and reported it to me even before you did." "This was not the work of demons," said Diana. "It did not have that feeling, the stench of demons--it was the death of growing things, a blight on the earth. It was what--what Kieran has described as happening in the Unseelie Lands." Be careful, Diana told herself. She had almost said it was what Julian had described. Jia would be an ally, she hoped, but she had not yet proved herself one. And she was still part of the Clave--its highest representative, in fact. There was a knock on the door. It was Robert Lightwood, the Inquisitor. He was pulling riding gloves from his hands. "What Miss Wrayburn says is true," he said, without preamble. "There is a blighted space in the center of the forest, perhaps a mile from Herondale Manor. Sensors confirm no demon presence." "Were you alone when you went to look at it?" Diana demanded. Robert looked faintly surprised. "A few others were with me. Patrick Penhallow, some of the younger Centurions." "Let me guess," said Diana. "Manuel Villalobos." "I didn't realize this was meant to be a confidential mission," said Robert, raising his eyebrows. "Does it matter if he was there?" Diana said nothing, only looked at Jia, whose dark gaze was weary. "I hope you took some samples, Robert," Jia said. "Patrick has them. He's taking them to the Silent Brothers now." Robert stuffed his gloves in his pocket and glanced sideways at Diana. "For what it's worth, I considered your request, and I believe a Council meeting regarding the issues of the Cohort and the faerie messenger would be useful." He inclined his head toward Diana and left the room. "It's better that he took Manuel and the others along," said Jia in a low voice. "They cannot deny what they have seen, should it come to that." Diana rose from her chair. "What do you think they've seen?" "I don't know," said Jia candidly. "Did you attempt to use your seraph blade, or a rune, when you were in the forest?" Diana shook her head. She hadn't told Jia what she'd been doing in Brocelind at dawn-- certainly not that she'd been there on a semi-date with a faerie in her pajamas. "You are going to argue this is a sign of the Unseelie Court's incursion into our lands," said Jia. "Kieran said the Unseelie King would not stop at his own lands. That he would come for ours. That is why we need the Seelie Queen's help." Which was contingent on finding the Black Volume, Diana knew, though she had not told Jia that. Getting rid of the Cohort was too important. "I read the file you gave me," Diana added. "I think you may have forgotten to remove some papers regarding Zara's history from it." "Oh, dear," said Jia, without inflection. "You gave me those papers because you know it's true," said Diana. "That Zara has lied to the Council. That if she is considered a hero, it is because of those lies." "Can you prove that?" Jia had moved to the window. The harsh sunlight illuminated the lines in her face. "Can you?" "No," Jia said, still looking through the glass. "But I can tell you something that I should not tell you. I spoke of Aline and Helen and their knowledge. Some time ago, they reported that they had seen something troubling the maps of Alicante, in the area of Brocelind. Something very odd, dark spots as if the very trees had been practicing evil magic. We rode out but saw nothing--perhaps the patches had not yet grown large enough to be visible. It was put down to a malfunction of equipment." "They'll have to double-check," Diana said, but her heart was pounding in excitement. Another piece of proof that the Unseelie King was a threat. A clear and present danger to Idris. "If their dark spots match up to the areas of blight, then they must come testify--show the Clave--" "Slow down, Diana," said Jia. "I've been thinking a great deal about you. I know there are things you are not telling me. Reasons you are so sure Zara didn't kill Malcolm. Reasons you know so much about the Unseelie King's plans. Since the first time I invited Julian Blackthorn and Emma Carstairs into my office, they have confounded me and hidden things from the Clave. As you are hiding things now." She touched her fingers to the glass. "But I am weary. Of the Cold Peace that keeps my daughter from me. Of the Cohort and the climate of hate they breed. What you offer me now is a thin thread on which to tie all our hopes." "But it is better than nothing," said Diana. "Yes." Jia turned back to her. "It is better than nothing." When Diana stepped out of the Gard some minutes later into the gray-white daylight, her blood was singing. She'd done it. There was going to be a meeting; Kieran would testify; they would have their chance to win the Institute back, and perhaps crush the Cohort. She thought of Emma and Julian and the Black Volume. So much weight on shoulders too young to be forced to bear it. She remembered the two of them as children in the Accords Hall, their swords out as they ringed the younger Blackthorns, ready to die for them. At the edge of her vision, a bright glint shone momentarily. Something tumbled to the ground at her feet. There was a flutter overhead, a disturbance among the heavy clouds. As Diana bent down and quickly pocketed the small, hollowed acorn, she already knew who the message was from. Still, she waited until she was halfway down the path to Alicante to read it. To bring her a message in the middle of the day, even under cloud cover, Gwyn must have something serious to say. Inside the acorn was a tiny piece of paper on which was written: Come to me now, outside the city walls. It is important. The Blackthorn children are in danger. Flinging the acorn aside, Diana bolted down the hill. The rain started up as Julian and Emma made their way back from Porthallow Church in silence. Julian seemed to remember the way perfectly, even cutting across the headlands on a path that led them directly down into the Warren. The sunbathers on the dock and out by the pools under Chapel Rock were hurrying to gather up their things as the first drops of rain splashed down, mothers yanking clothes back onto their unwilling, swimsuited toddlers, bright towels being folded up, beach umbrellas put away. Emma remembered the way her own father had loved storms on the beach. She recalled being held in his arms as thunder rolled out over the Santa Monica Bay, and he had told her that when lightning struck the beach, it fused sand into glass. She could hear that roaring in her ears now, louder than the sound of the sea as it rose and began to pound against the rocks on either side of the harbor. Louder than her own breathing as she and Jules hurried up the slippery-wet path to the cottage and ducked inside just as the sky opened up and water came down like the spill through a breaking dam. Everything inside the cottage seemed almost terrifying in its ordinariness. The kettle silent on the stove. Teacups and coffee mugs and empty plates scattered around the rag rug in front of the fireplace. Julian's sweatshirt on the floor, where Emma had wadded it up and made a pillow out of it the night before. "Emma?" Julian was leaning against the kitchen island. Water droplets had spattered his face; his hair was curling the way it always did in the humidity and damp. He had the expression of someone who was braced for something, some kind of awful news. "You haven't said anything since we left the church." "You're in love with me," Emma said. "Still." Whatever he had been expecting, it hadn't been that. He had been moving to unzip his jacket. His hands froze in midmotion, fingers reaching. She saw his throat move as he swallowed. He said, "What are you talking about?" "I thought you didn't love me anymore," she said. She pulled off her coat, reached to hang it on the peg by the door, but her hands were shaking and it fell to the floor. "But that isn't true, is it?" She heard him inhale, slow and hard. "Why are you saying that? Why now?" "Because of the church. Because of what happened. We burned a church down, Julian, we melted stone." He yanked the zipper on his jacket down with a vicious jerk and threw it. It bounced off a kitchen cabinet. Underneath, his shirt was wet with sweat and rain. "What does that have to do with anything?" "It has everything to do with--" She broke off, her voice shaking. "You don't understand. You can't." "You're right." He stalked away from her, turned in the middle of the room, and kicked out suddenly, violently, at one of the mugs on the floor. It flew across the room and shattered against a wall. "I don't understand. I don't understand any of it, Emma, I don't understand why you suddenly decided you didn't want me, you wanted Mark, and then you decided you didn't want him either and you dropped him like he was nothing, in front of everyone. What the hell were you thinking--" "What do you care?" she demanded. "What do you care how I feel about Mark?" "Because I needed you to love him," Julian said. His face was the color of the ashes in the grate. "Because if you threw me away and everything we had, it had better be for something that meant more to you, it had better be for something real, but maybe none of this is ever real to you--" "Not real to me?" Emma's voice tore out of her throat with such force it hurt. Her body felt as if electric sparks were running under her veins, shocking her, pushing her rage higher and higher, and she wasn't even angry at Jules, she was angry at herself, she was angry at the world for doing this to them, for making her the only one who knew, the guardian of a poisonous, poisoning secret. "You don't know what you're talking about, Julian Blackthorn! You don't know what I've given up, what my reasons are for anything, you don't know what I'm trying to do--" "What you're trying to do? How about what you did do? How about breaking my heart and breaking Cameron's and breaking Mark's?" His face twisted. "What, am I missing someone else, some other person whose life you want to wreck forever?" "Your life isn't wrecked. You're still alive. You can have a good life! You kissed that faerie girl--" "She was a leanansidhe! A shape-changer! I thought she was you!" "Oh." Emma stood for a moment, arrested in mid-motion. "Oh." "Yes, oh. You really think I'm going to fall in love with someone else?" Julian demanded. "You think I get to do that? I'm not you, I don't get to fall in love every week with someone different. I wish it wasn't you, Emma, but it is, it'll always be you, so don't tell me my life isn't wrecked when you don't know the first thing about it!" Emma slammed her hand against the wall. The plaster cracked, spidering out from the impact point. She felt the pain only distantly. A roiling black wave of despair rose, threatening to overwhelm her. "What do you want from me, Jules?" she demanded. "What do you want me to do?" Julian took a step forward; his face looked as if it had been carved out of marble or something even harder, even more unyielding. "What do I want?" he said. "I want you to know what it's like. To be tortured all the time, night and day, desperately wanting what you know you should never want, what doesn't even want you hack. To know how it feels to understand that a decision you made when you were twelve years old means you can never have the one thing that would make you truly happy. I want you to dream about only one thing and want only one thing and obsess about only one thing like I do--" "Julian--" she gasped, desperate to stop him, to stop all this before it was too late. "--like I do with you!" he finished, the words spat out almost savagely. "Like I do with you, Emma." The rage seemed to have gone out of him; he was shaking now instead, as if in the grip of shock. "I thought you loved me," he said, almost in a whisper. "I don't know how I got that so wrong." Her heart cracked. She twisted away, away from the look in his eyes, away from his voice, away from the shattering of all her carefully made plans. She clawed the door open--she heard Julian call her name, but she had already plunged out of the cottage and into the storm. <|title|>Chapter 24: Legion <|startofchapter|>The crest of Chapel Cliff was a tower in a maelstrom: slick rock rising toward the sky, surrounded on three sides by the boiling cauldron of the ocean. The sky above was gray, streaked with black, hanging heavy as a rock over the small town and the sea beyond. The water was high in the harbor, raising the fishing boats to the level of the windows of the dockside houses. The small craft tossed and turned on the crests of the waves. More waves crashed up against the cliff, spraying whitecaps into the air. Emma stood within a whirlwind of swirling water, the smell of the sea all around, the sky exploding above her, lightning forking through the clouds. She spread her arms out wide. She felt as if the lightning were exploding down through her, into the rocks at her feet, into the water that slammed up in gray-green sheets, almost vertical against the sky. All around her the granite spires that gave Chapel Cliff its name rose like a stone forest, like the points of a crown. The rock under her feet was slippery with wet moss. All her life, she had loved storms--loved the explosions tearing through the sky, loved the soul-baring ferocity of them. She hadn't thought when she'd burst out of the cottage, at least not logically; she'd been desperate to get away before she told Julian everything he could never know. Let him think she'd never loved him, that she'd broken Mark's heart, that she had no feelings. Let him hate her, if that meant he would live and be all right. And maybe the storm could wash her clean, could wash what felt like both their hearts' blood off her hands. She moved down the side of the cliff. The rock grew slipperier, and she paused to apply a new Balance rune. The stele slid on her wet skin. Lrom the lower point, she could see where the caves and tide pools were covered by curling white water. Lightning cracked against the horizon; she lifted her face to taste the salt rain and heard the distant, winding sound of a horn. Her head jerked up. She'd heard a sound like that before, once, when the convoy of the Wild Hunt had come to the Institute. It was no human horn. It sounded again, deep and cold and lonely, and she started to her feet, scrambling back up the path toward the top of the cliff. She saw clouds like massive gray boulders colliding in the sky; where they parted, weak golden light shafted down, illuminating the churning surface of the ocean. There were black dots out over the harbor--birds? No, they were too big to be seabirds, and none would be out in this weather anyway. The black dots were coming toward her. They were closer now, resolving, no longer dots. She could see them for what they were: riders. Four riders, cloaked in glimmering bronze. They hurtled through the sky like comets. They were not the Wild Hunt. Emma knew that immediately, without knowing how she knew it. There were too few of them, and they were too silent. The Wild Hunt rode with a fierce clamor. The bronze riders glided silently toward Emma, as if they had been formed out of the clouds. She could run back toward the cottage, she thought. But that would draw them toward Julian, and besides, they had angled themselves to cut her off from the path back toward Malcolm's house. They were moving with incredible speed. In seconds, they would be on the cliff. Her right hand closed on the hilt of Cortana. She drew it almost without conscious thought. The feel of it in her hand grounded her, slowed her heartbeat. They soared overhead, circling. For a moment Emma was struck by their odd beauty--up close, the horses seemed barely real, as transparent as glass, formed out of wisps of cloud and moisture. They spun in the air and dove like gulls after their prey. As their hooves struck the solid earth of the cliff, they exploded into ocean whitecaps, each horse a spray of vanishing water, leaving the four riders behind. And between Emma and the path. She was cut off, from everything but the sea and the small piece of cliff behind her. The four Riders faced her. She braced her feet. The very top of the ridge was so narrow that her boots sank in on either side of the cliff s spine. She raised Cortana. It flashed in the storm light, rain sliding off its blade. "Who's there?" she called. The four figures moved as one, reaching to push back the hoods of their bronze cloaks. Beneath was more shining stuff--they were three tall men and a woman, each of them wearing bronze half masks, with hair that looked like metallic thread wound into thick braids that hung halfway down their backs. Their armor was metal: breastplates and gauntlets etched all over with the designs of waves and the sea. The eyes they fixed on her were gray and piercing. "Emma Cordelia Carstairs," said one of them. He spoke as if Emma's name were in a foreign language, one his tongue had a hard time wrapping itself around. "Well met." "In your opinion," Emma muttered. She kept a tight grip on Cortana--each of the faeries (for she knew they were faeries) that she was facing was armed with a longsword, hilts visible over their shoulders. She raised her voice. "What does a convoy from the Faerie Courts want from me?" The faerie raised an eyebrow. "Tell her, Fal," said one of the others, in the same accented voice. Something about the accent raised the hairs on Emma's arms, though she couldn't have said what it was. "We are the Riders of Mannan," said Fal. "You will have heard of us." It wasn't a question. Emma desperately wished Cristina were with her. Cristina was the one with vast knowledge of faerie culture. If the words "Riders of Mannan" were supposed to mean something to Shadowhunters, Cristina would know it. "Are you part of the Wild Hunt?" she asked. Consternation. A low mutter vibrated among the four of them, and Fal leaned to the side and spat. A faerie with a sharply chiseled jaw and an expression of disdain replied for him. "I am Airmed, son of Mannan," he said. "We are the children of a god, you see. We are much older than the Wild Hunt, and much more powerful." Emma realized then what it was that she'd heard in their accents. It wasn't distance or foreignness; it was age, a terrifying age that stretched back to the beginning of the world. "We seek," said Fal. "And we find. We are the searchers. We have been under the waves to search and above them. We have been in Faerie, and in the realms of the damned, and on battlefields and in the dark of night and the bright of day. In all our lives there has only been one thing we have sought and not found." "A sense of humor?" Emma suggested. "She should shut her mouth," said the female Rider. "You should shut it for her, Fal." "Not yet, Ethna," said Fal. "We need her words. We need to know the location of what we seek." Emma's hand felt hot and slippery on the hilt of Cortana. "What do you seek?" "The Black Volume," said Airmed. "We seek the same object you and your parabatai seek. The one taken by Annabel Blackthorn." Emma took an involuntary step back. "You're looking for Annabel?" "For the book," said the fourth Rider, his voice harsh and deep. "Tell us where it is and we will leave you be." "I don't have it," Emma said. "Neither does Julian." "She is a liar, Delan," said the woman, Ethna. His lip curled. "They are all liars, Nephilim. Do not treat us as fools, Shadowhunter, or we will string your innards from the nearest tree." "Try it," said Emma. "I'll ram the tree down your throat until branches start poking out of your--" "Ears?" It was Julian. He must have applied a Soundless rune, because even Emma hadn't heard him approach. He was perched on a wet boulder by the side of the path toward the cottage as if he'd simply appeared there, summoned out of the rain and clouds. He was in gear, his hair wet, an unlit seraph blade in his hand. "I'm sure you were going to say ears." "Definitely." Emma grinned at him; she couldn't help it. Despite the fight they'd had, he was here, having her back, being her parabatai. And now they had the Riders hemmed in, pinned between the two of them. Things were looking up. "Julian Blackthorn," drawled Fal, barely glancing at him. "The famous parabatai. I hear the two of you gave a most impressive performance at the Unseelie Court." "I'm sure the King couldn't stop singing our praises," Julian said. "Look, what makes you think we know where Annabel or the Black Volume are?" "Spies are in every Court," said Ethna. "We know the Queen sent you to find the book. The King must have it before the Queen possesses it." "But we have promised the Queen," said Julian, "and a promise like that cannot be broken." Delan growled, his hand suddenly at the hilt of his sword. He had moved so fast it was a blur. "You are humans and liars," he said. "You can break any promise you make, and will, when your necks are on the line. As they are now." He jerked his chin toward the cottage. "We have come for the warlock's books and papers. If you will not tell us anything, then give them to us and we will be gone." "Give them to you?" Julian looked puzzled. "Why didn't you just..." His eyes met Emma's. She knew what he was thinking: Why didn't you break in and take them ? "You can't get in, can you?" "The wards," Emma confirmed. The faeries said nothing, but she could tell by the angry set of their jaws that she was right. "What will the Unseelie King give us in return for the book?" said Julian. "Jules," Emma hissed. How could he be scheming at a time like this? Fal laughed. Emma noted for the first time that the clothes and armor of the faeries were dry, as if the rain didn't fall on them. His glance toward Julian was full of contempt. "You have no advantage here, son of thorns. Give us what we have come for, or when we find the rest of your family, we shall put red-hot pokers through their eyes down to even the smallest child." Tavvy. The words went through Emma like an arrow. She felt the impact, felt her body jerk, and the cold came down over her, the cold ice of battle. She lunged for Fal, bringing Cortana down in a vicious overhand swipe. Ethna screamed, and Fal moved faster than a current on the ocean, ducking Emma's blow. Cortana whistled through the air. There was a clamor as the other faeries reached for their swords. And a glow as Julian's seraph blade burst into light, illuminating the rain. It wove around Emma like bright strings as she twirled, fending off a blow from Ethna, Cortana slamming into the faerie sword with enough force to send Ethna stumbling back. Fal's face twisted with surprise. Emma gasped, wet, inhaling rain but not feeling the cold. The world was a spinning gray top; she ran toward one of the stone spires and clambered up it. "Coward!" Airmed cried. "How dare you run away?" Emma heard Julian laugh as she reached the top of the spire and leaped from it. The descent gave her speed, and she slammed into Airmed with enough force to knock him to the ground. He tried to roll away, but froze when she smashed the hilt of Cortana into his temple. He choked with pain. "Shut up," Emma hissed. "Don't you dare touch the Blackthorns, don't you even talk about them--" "Let him be!" Ethna called, and Delan leaped toward them, only to be stopped by Julian and the sweep of his seraph blade. The cliff exploded with light, the rain seeming to hang still in the air, as the blade swung down and slammed against the faerie warrior's breastplate. And shattered. It broke as if it had been made out of ice, and Julian was thrown back by the recoiling force of it, lifted off his feet and slammed down among the rocks and wet earth. Delan laughed, striding toward Julian. Emma abandoned Airmed where he lay and leaped after the faerie warrior as he raised his sword over Jules, and brought it down-- Julian rolled fast to the right, swung around, and drove a dagger into the unguarded skin of Delan's calf. Delan yelled with pain and anger, spinning to drive the tip of the sword down toward Julian's body. But Jules had flung himself upward; he was on his feet, dagger in hand. Light shafted down suddenly through the clouds, and Emma saw the shadows on the ground before her shift; there was someone behind her. She spun away just as a blade came down, barely missing her shoulder. She spun around to find Ethna behind her: Fal was leaning over Airmed on the ground, helping haul him to his feet. For a moment it was just Emma and the faerie woman, and Emma grabbed the hilt of Cortana with both hands and swung. Ethna darted back, but she was laughing. "You Nephilim," she sneered. "You call yourselves warriors, ringed round with your protective runes, your angel blades! Without them you would be nothing--and you will be without them soon enough! You will be nothing, and we will take everything from you! Everything you have! Everything!" "Did you want to say that again?" Emma asked, evading a slice of Ethna's sword with a twist of her body. She leaped up onto a boulder, looking down. "The everything part? I don't think I got it the first time." Ethna snarled and leaped for her. And for a long series of moments it was only the battle, the glowing vapor of the rain, the sea crashing and thundering in the pools below the cliff, and everything slowing down as Emma knocked Ethna to the side and leaped for Airmed and Fal, her sword clanging against theirs. They were good: better than good, fast and blindingly strong. But Cortana was like a live thing in Emma's hands. Rage powered her, an electric current that shot through her veins, driving the sword in her hand, hammering the blade against those raised against hers, the clang of metal drowning out the sea. She tasted salt in her mouth, blood or ocean spray, she didn't know. Her wet hair whipped around her as she spun, Cortana meeting the other swords of the faeries, blow after blow. An ugly laugh cut through the violent dream that gripped her. She looked up to see that Fal had Julian backed up to the edge of the cliff. It fell away sheer behind him; he stood framed against the gray sky, his hair plastered darkly to his head. Panic blasted through her. She pushed off from the side of a granite facing with a kick that connected solidly against Airmed's body. The faerie fell back with a grunt, and Emma was racing, seeing Julian in her mind's eye run through with a sword or toppled from the cliff s edge to shatter on the rocks or drown in the maelstrom below. Fal was still laughing. He had his sword out. Julian took another step backward--and ducked down, swift and nimble, to catch up a crossbow from where it had been hidden behind a tumble of rocks. He lifted it to his shoulder just as Emma collided with Fal, her sword out; she didn't slow, didn't pause, just slammed Cortana point-first between Fal's shoulder blades. It pierced his armor and slid home. She felt the point burst out of the other side of his body, slicing through the metal breastplate. There was a shriek from behind Emma. It was Ethna. She had her head thrown back, her hands clawing at her hair. She was wailing in a language Emma didn't know, but she could hear that Ethna was shrieking her brother's name. Fal, Fal. Ethna began to sink to her knees. Delan reach to catch her, his own face bone-white and shocked. With a roar, Airmed lifted his sword and lunged toward Emma, who was struggling to free Cortana from Fal's limp body. She tensed and pulled; the sword came free in a gout of blood, but she had no time to turn-- Julian released the bolt from his crossbow. It whistled through the air, a softer sound than the rain, and struck the sword in Airmed's hand, knocking it out of his grip. Airmed howled. His hand was scarlet. Emma turned, planted her feet, raised her sword. Blood and rain ran down Cortana's blade. "Who wants to try me?" she shouted, her words half-torn out of her mouth by wind and water. "Who wants to be next?" "Let me kill her!" Ethna struggled in Delan's grip. "She slew Fal! Let me cut her throat!" But Delan was shaking his head, he was saying something, something about Cortana. Emma took a step forward--if they wouldn't come to her to be killed, she would be happy enough to go to them. Airmed raised his hand; she saw light flicker from his fingers, pale green in the gray air. His face was twisted into a sneer of concentration. "Emma!" Jules caught her from behind before she could take another step, hauling her back and against him just as the rain exploded into the shapes of three horses, swirling creatures of wind and spray, snorting and pawing at the air between Emma and the rest of the Riders. Fal lay with his blood soaking into the Cornwall dirt as his brothers and sister vaulted onto the bare backs of their steeds. Emma began to shiver violently. Only one of the Riders paused long enough to look back at her before their horses shot forward into the sky, losing themselves among the clouds and rain. It was Ethna. Her eyes were murderous, disbelieving. You have slain an ancient and primitive thing, her gaze seemed to say. Be prepared for a vengeance just as ancient. Just as primitive. "Run," Livvy said. It was the last thing Kit had expected. Shadowhunters didn't run. That was what he'd always been told. But Livvy took off like a bullet out of a gun, flashing past the Rider on the path in front of her, and Ty followed. Kit ran after them. They tore past the faeries and into the throng of pedestrians on the Thames Path. Kit pulled alongside Livvy and Ty, though he was breathing hard and they weren't. He could hear thunder behind him. Hoofbeats. We can't outrun them, he thought, but he didn't have the breath to say it. The leaden gray air felt heavy as he pulled it into his lungs. Livvy's dark hair streamed on the wind as she flung herself over a gate set into the railing separating the path from the river. For a moment she seemed to hang suspended in the air, her arms upraised, her coat flapping--and then she soared straight down, vanishing out of sight. And Ty followed her, vaulting sideways over the gate, disappearing as he fell. Into the river? Kit thought hazily, but he didn't pause; his muscles were already beginning the now-familiar burning, his mind tightening and focusing. He grabbed hold of the top of the gate and pushed himself up and over it. He fell only a few feet to land in a crouch on a cement platform that stretched out into the Thames, surrounded by a low iron railing that was broken in several places. Ty and Livvy were already there, jackets yanked off to free their arms, seraph blades in hand. Livvy tossed a shortsword toward Kit as he straightened up, realizing why she'd run--not to get away, but to clear them some space to fight. And hopefully to contact the Institute. Ty had his phone out in his hand, was thumbing at the keypad even as he raised his seraph blade, its light bursting dully against the clouds. Kit turned just as the three Riders sailed over the gate to join them, flashing bronze and gold as they landed. Their swords whipped free with blinding speed. "Stop him!" snarled Karn, and his two brothers launched themselves at Ty. Livvy and Kit moved as one to throw themselves in front of Tiberius. The cold, hard blur of fighting was on Kit, but the Riders were faster than demons, and stronger, too. Kit whipped his shortsword toward Eochaid, but the faerie was no longer there: He'd leaped all the way to the far side of the platform. He laughed at the expression on Kit's face, even as Etarlam slashed out with a blow that knocked the phone out of Ty's hand. It skittered across the concrete and splashed into the river. A shadow fell over Kit. He responded instantaneously, driving upward with his shortsword. He heard a gasp, and Karn fell back, dark drops of blood spattering on the ground at his feet. Kit flung himself up and forward, lunging for Eochaid, but Livvy and Ty were ahead of him, blurs of light as their seraph blades cut the air around the Riders. But only the air. Kit couldn't help but notice that the angel blades didn't seem to be cutting through the Riders' armor, or even slicing their skin as he'd managed to do with his shortsword. There was puzzlement on Ty's face, rage on Livvy's as she stabbed at Eochaid's heart with her seraph blade. The weapon snapped off at the hilt, the force of the rebound sending her staggering back almost into the river. Ty whipped around as he looked after her--Eochaid raised his sword and brought it down in a sweeping arc toward Ty--and Kit lunged across the platform, knocking Tiberius flat. Ty's blade went flying, splashing down into the Thames, sending up a flurry of fiery droplets. Kit had landed half across Ty, banging his head hard on a jutting piece of wood; he felt Ty try to shove him off, and rolled over to see Eochaid standing over them both. Livvy had engaged the other two Riders, was fighting them desperately, a whirl of flashing weaponry. But she was on the other side of the platform. Kit fought to get his breath back, raised his sword-- Eochaid stood arrested, his eyes glittering behind the holes of his mask. The irises, too, were bronze-colored. "I know you," he said. "I know your face." Kit gaped at him. A second later, Eochaid was raising his sword, mouth twisting into a grin--and a shadow fell over them all. The Rider looked up, astonishment crossing his face as a burly arm reached down from above and seized hold of him. A second later he was flying up into the air, yelling. Kit heard a splash; the Rider had been tossed into the river. Kit struggled to sit up, Ty beside him. Livvy had turned to face them, her mouth open; both the Riders were similarly agape, their swords dangling by their sides as a thunderous, whirling mass landed in the center of the platform. It was a horse, and on the horse's back was Gwyn, massive in his helmet and bark-like armor. It was his gauntleted arm that had flung Eochaid into the river--but now the Rider had swum back to the platform and was climbing onto it, his movements slowed by his heavy armor. Clinging to the man's waist was Diana, her dark hair a mass of curls pulling free of their restraints, her eyes wide. Ty got to his feet. Kit scrambled up after him. There was some blood staining the collar of Ty's hoodie; Kit realized he didn't know if it was Ty's or his own. "Riders!" Gwyn said, in a thunderous voice. There was a wide cut across his arm where Eochaid must have gotten in a blow. "Stop." Diana slid from the horse's back and stalked across the concrete platform to where Eochaid was clambering out of the water. She unhitched her sword from its scabbard, spun it, and pointed it directly at his chest. "Don't move," she said. The Rider subsided, teeth bared in a silent snarl. "This is none of your concern, Gwyn," said Karn. "This is Unseelie business." "The Wild Hunt bends to no law," said Gwyn. "Our will is the wind's will. And my will now is to send you away from these children. They are under my protection." "They are Nephilim," spat Etarlam. "The architects of the Cold Peace, vicious and cruel." "You are no better," said Gwyn. "You are the King's hunting dogs, and never have you shown any mercy." Karn and Etarlam stared at Gwyn. Eochaid, kneeling, dripped on the concrete. The moment stretched out like rubber, seemingly extending forever. Eochaid shot suddenly to his feet with a gasp, seemingly heedless of Diana's sword, tracking him unerringly as he moved. "Fell," he said. "He is dead." "That is impossible," said Karn. "Impossible. A Rider cannot die." But Etarlam let out a loud, keening cry, his sword falling to the ground as his hand flew to cover his heart. "He is gone," he wailed. "I feel it. Our brother is gone." "A Rider has passed into the Shadow Lands," said Gwyn. "Would you like me to sound the horn for him?" Though Gwyn had sounded sincere enough to Kit, Eochaid snarled and made as if to lunge for the Hunter, but Diana's sword kissed his throat as he moved, drawing blood. Thick, dark drops ran down her blade. "Enough!" said Karn. "Gwyn, you will pay for this treachery. Etar, Eochaid, to my side. We go to our brothers and sister." Diana lowered her sword as Eochaid shouldered past her, joining the other two Riders. They leaped from the platform into the air, long soaring leaps that took them high above, where they caught the manes of their gleaming bronze horses and swung themselves up to ride. As they hurtled past above the water, Eochaid's voice echoed in Kit's ringing ears. I know you. I know your face. Emma was shaking by the time they got back into the cottage. A combination of cold and reaction had set in. Her hair and clothes were plastered to her, and she suspected she looked like a drowned rat. She propped Cortana against the wall and began wearily to shuck off her drenched jacket and shoes. She was aware of Julian locking the door behind them, aware of the sounds of him moving around the room. Warmth, too. He must have built up the fire earlier. A moment later something soft was being pressed into her hands. Julian stood in front of her, his expression unreadable, offering a slightly worn bath towel. She took it and began to dry off her hair. Jules was still wearing his damp clothes, though he was barefoot and he'd thrown on a dry sweater. Water gleamed at the edges of his hair, the tips of his eyelashes. She thought of the clang of swords on swords, the beauty of the turmoil of the battle, the sea and sky. She wondered if that was how Mark had felt in the Wild Hunt. When there was nothing between you and the elements, it was easy to forget what weighed you down. She thought of the blood on Cortana, the blood ribboning out from under Fal's body, mixing with the rainwater. They'd rolled his corpse under an overhang of stones, not wanting to leave him there, exposed to the weather, even though he was long past caring. "I killed one of the Riders," she said now, in a near whisper. "You had to." Julian's hand was strong on her shoulder, fingers digging in. "Emma, it was a fight to the death." "The Clave--" "The Clave will understand." "The Fair Folk won't. The Unseelie King won't." The faintest ghost of a smile passed over Julian's face. "I don't think he likes us anyway." Emma took a tense breath. "Fal had you backed up against the edge of the cliff," she said. "I thought he was going to kill you." Julian's smile faded. "I'm sorry," he said. "I'd hidden the crossbow there earlier--" "I didn't know," Emma said. "It's my job to sense what's going on with you in battle, to understand it, to anticipate you, but I didn't know." She threw the bath towel; it landed on the kitchen floor. The mug Julian had broken earlier was gone. He must have cleaned it up. Despair bubbled up inside her. Nothing she'd done had worked. They were in exactly the same place they'd been before, only Julian didn't know it. That was all that had changed. "I tried so hard," she whispered. His face crinkled in confusion. "In the battle? Emma, you did everything you could--" "Not in the battle. To make you not love me," she said. "I tried." She felt him recoil, not so much outwardly as inwardly, as if his soul had flinched. "Is it that awful? Having me love you?" She had started trembling again, though not from the cold. "It was the best thing in the world," she said. "And then it was the worst. And I didn't even have a chance--" She broke off. He was shaking his head, scattering water droplets. "You're going to have to learn to live with it," he said. "Even if it horrifies you. Even if it makes you sick. Just like I'm going to have to live with whatever other boyfriends you have, because we are forever no matter how, Emma, no matter what you want to call what we have, we will always be us." "There won't be any other boyfriends," she said. He looked at her in surprise. "What you said before, about thinking and obsessing and wanting only one thing," she said. "That's how I feel about you." He looked stunned. She put her hands up to gently cup his face, brushing her fingers over his damp skin. She could see the pulse hammering in his throat. There was a scratch on his face, a long one that went from his temple to his chin. Emma wondered if he'd just gotten it in the fight outside, or if he'd had it before and she hadn't noticed because she'd been trying so hard not to look at him. She wondered if he was ever going to speak again. "Jules," she said. "Say something, please--" His hands tightened convulsively on her shoulders. She gasped as his body moved against hers, walking her backward until her back hit the wall. His eyes gazed down into hers, shockingly bright, radiant as sea glass. "Julian," he said. "I want you to call me Julian. Only ever that." "Julian," she said, and then his mouth came down over hers, dry and burning hot, and her heart seemed to stop and start again, an engine revved into an impossibly high gear. She clutched him back with the same desperation, clinging on as he drank the rain from her mouth, her lips parting to taste him: cloves and tea. She reached to yank his sweater off over his head. Under it was a T-shirt, the thin wet cloth not much of a barrier when he pressed her back against the wall. His jeans were wet too, molded to his body. She felt how much he wanted her, and wanted him just as much. The world was gone: There was only Julian; the heat of his skin, the need to be closer to him, to fit herself against him. Every movement of his body against hers sent lightning through her nerves. "Emma. God, Emma." He buried his face against her, kissing her cheek, her throat as he slid his thumbs under the waistband of her jeans and pushed down. She kicked the wet heap of denim away. "I love you so much." It felt as if it had been a thousand years since that night on the beach. Her hands rediscovered his body, the hard planes of it, his scars rough under her palms. He had once been so skinny--she could still see him as he had been even two years ago, awkward and gangly. She had loved him then even if she hadn't known it, loved him from the center of his bones to the surface of his skin. Now those bones were clothed and covered in smooth muscle, hard and unyielding. She ran her hands up under his shirt, relearning him, tracing him, embedding the feel and the texture of him in her memory. "Julian," she said. "I--" I love you, she was about to say. It wasn't ever Cameron, or Mark, it was always you, it will always be you, the marrow of my bones is made up of you, like cells make up our blood. But he cut her off with a hard kiss. "Don't," he whispered. "I don't want to hear anything reasonable, not now. I don't want logic. I want this." "But you need to know--" He shook his head. "I don't." He reached down, grabbed the hem of his shirt, dragged it off. His wet hair showered droplets on them both. "I've been broken for weeks," he said unsteadily, and she knew what that cost him, that admission of lack of control. "I need to be whole again. Even if it doesn't last." "It can't last," she said, staring at him, because how could it, when they could never keep what they had? "It'll break our hearts." He caught her by the wrist, brought her hand to his bare chest. Splayed her fingers over his heart. It beat against her palm, like a fist punching its way through his sternum. "Break my heart," he said. "Break it in pieces. I give you permission." The blue of his eyes had almost disappeared behind the expanding rims of his pupils. She hadn't known, before, on the beach, what was going to happen. What it would be like between them. Now she did. There were things in life you couldn't refuse. No one had that much willpower. No one. She was nodding her head, without even knowing she was going to do it. "Julian, yes," she said. "Yes." She heard him make an almost anguished sound. Then his hands were on her hips; he was lifting her so she was pinned between his body and the wall. It felt desperate, world-ending, and she wondered if there would ever be a time when it wouldn't, when it could be soft and slow and quietly loving. He kissed her fiercely and she forgot gentleness or any desire for it. There was only this, his whispering her name as they pushed aside the clothes that needed to be pushed aside. He was gasping, a faint sheen of sweat on his skin, damp hair plastered to his forehead; he lifted her higher, pressed toward her so fast his body collided with hers. She heard the ragged moan dragged out of his throat. When he lifted his face, eyes black with desire, she stared at him, wide-eyed. "You're all right?" he whispered. She nodded. "Don't stop." His mouth found hers, unsteady, his hands shaking where they held her. She could tell he was fighting for every second of control. She wanted to tell him it was fine, it was all right, but coherence had deserted her. She could hear the waves outside, smashing brutally against the rocks; she closed her eyes and heard him say that he loved her, and then her arms were around him, holding him as his knees gave way and they sank to the floor, clutching each other like the survivors of a ship that had run aground on some distant, legendary shore. Tavvy, Rafe, and Max were easy enough to locate. They'd been in the care of Bridget, who was amusing them by letting them annoy Jessamine so that she knocked things off high shelves, thus sparking a "Do not tease ghosts" lecture from Magnus. Dru, on the other hand, was nowhere to be found. She wasn't in her bedroom any longer, or hiding in the library or the parlor, and the kids hadn't seen her. Possibly Jessamine could have helped them more, but Bridget had reported that she had flounced off after the children were done bothering her, and besides, she only liked talking to Kit. "Dru wouldn't have left the Institute, would she?" Mark said. He was stalking down the corridor, shoving doors open left and right. "Why would she do something like that?" "Mark." Kieran took the other boy by his shoulders and turned him so that they faced each other. Cristina felt a throb in her wrist, as if Mark's distress were communicating itself to her through the binding. Of course, Mark and Kieran shared another kind of binding. The binding of shared experience and emotion. Kieran was holding Mark by the shoulders, concentrating on nothing but him in that way that faeries had. And Mark was relaxing slowly, some of the tension leaving his body. "Your sister is here," said Kieran. "And we will find her." "We'll split up and look," said Alec. "Magnus--" Magnus swung Max up into his arms and headed down the hallway, the other two kids trailing behind him. The rest of them agreed to meet back in the library in twenty minutes. Each of them got a quadrant of the Institute to search. Cristina wound up with west, which took her downstairs to the ballroom. She wished it hadn't--the memories of dancing there with Mark and then with Kieran were confusing and distracting. And she didn't need to be distracted now; she needed to find Dru. She headed down the stairs--and froze. There, on the landing, was Drusilla, all in black, her brown braids tied with black ribbon. She turned a pale, anxious face to Cristina. "I was waiting for you," she said. "Everyone's looking for you!" Cristina said. "Ty and Livvy--" "I know. I heard. I was listening," said Dru. "But you weren't in the library--" "Please," Dru said. "You have to come with me. There's not a lot of time." She turned and hurried up the stairs. After a moment, Cristina followed her. "Dru, Mark's worried. The Riders are terribly dangerous. He needs to know you're all right." "I'll go and tell him I'm fine in a second," Dru said. "But I need you to come with me." "Dru--" They'd made it to the hallway where most of the spare bedrooms were. "Look," said Dru. "I just need you to do this, okay? If you try yelling for Mark, I promise you there are places in this Institute I can hide where you won't find me for days." Cristina couldn't help being curious. "How do you know the Institute so well?" "You would too if every time you showed your face, someone tried to make you babysit," said Dru. They'd reached her bedroom. She stood hesitating, with her hand on the knob of her door. "But we looked in your bedroom," Cristina protested. "I'm telling you," said Dru. "Hiding places." She took a deep breath. "Okay. You go in here. And don't freak out." Dru's small face was set and determined, as if she were nerving herself to do something unpleasant. "Is everything all right?" Cristina said. "Are you sure you wouldn't rather talk to Mark than me?" "It isn't me who wants to talk to you," Dru said, and pushed her bedroom door open. Cristina stepped inside, feeling more puzzled than ever. She only saw a shadow first, a figure in front of the windowsill. Then he stood up and her heart caught in her throat. Brown skin, tangled black hair, sharp features, long lashes. The faint slouch to the shoulders she remembered, that she used to tell him always made him look as if he was walking into a high wind. "Jaime," she breathed. He reached out his arms, and a moment later she was hugging him tightly. Jaime had always been skinny, but now he felt positively prickly with pointed collarbones and sharp elbows. He hugged her back, tightly, and Cristina heard the bedroom door close quietly, the lock clicking. She pulled back and looked up into Jaime's face. He looked like he always did--bright- eyed, edged with mischief. "So," he said. "You really missed me." All the nights she'd stayed up sobbing because of him--because he was missing, because she hated him, because he'd been her best friend and she hated hating him--burst. Her left palm cracked across his cheek, and then she was hitting him on the shoulders, the chest, wherever she could reach. "Ow!" He writhed away. "That hurts!" "Me vale madre!" She hit him again. "How dare you disappear like that! Everyone was worried! I thought maybe you were dead. And now you turn up hiding in Drusilla Blackthorn's bedroom, which by the way if her brothers find out they will kill you dead--" "It wasn't like that!" Jaime windmilled his arms as if to fend off her blows. "I was looking for you." She put her hands on her hips. "After all this time avoiding me, suddenly you're looking for me?" "It wasn't you I was avoiding," he said. He took a crumpled envelope out of his pocket and held it out to her. With a pang, she recognized Diego's handwriting. "If Diego wants to write to me, he doesn't need the message hand-delivered," she said. "What does he think you are, a carrier pigeon?" "He can't write to you," said Jaime. "Zara watches all his mail." "So you know about Zara," Cristina said, taking the envelope. "How long?" Jaime slouched back against a large oak desk, hands propped behind him. "How long have they been engaged? Since you two broke up the first time. But it's not a real engagement, Cristina." She sat down on Dru's bed. "It seemed real enough." Jaime ran a hand through his black hair. He looked only a little like Diego, maybe in the set of his mouth, the shape of his eyes. Jaime had always been playful where Diego was serious. Now, tired and skinny, he resembled the glum, style-conscious boys who hung around coffee shops in the Colonia Roma. "I know you probably hate me," he said. "You've got every reason. You think I wanted our branch of the family to take over the Institute because I wanted power and didn't care about you. But the fact is I had a good reason." "I don't believe you," Cristina said. Jaime made an impatient noise. "I'm not self-sacrificing, Tina," he said. "That's Diego, not me. I wanted our family out of trouble." Cristina dug her hands into the bedspread. "What kind of trouble?" "You know we've always had a connection with faeries," said Jaime. "It's where that necklace of yours comes from. But there's always been more than that. Most of it didn't matter, until the Cold Peace. Then the family was supposed to turn everything over to the Clave--all their information, anything the faeries had ever given them." "But they didn't," Cristina guessed. "They didn't," Jaime said. "They decided the relationship with the hadas was more important than the Cold Peace." He shrugged fluidly. "There's an heirloom. It has power even I don't understand. The Dearborns and the Cohort demanded it, and we told them only a Rosales could make the object work." Realization came to Cristina with a hard shock. "So the fake engagement," she said. "So Zara could think she was becoming a Rosales." "Exactly," said Jaime. "Diego ties himself to the Cohort. And I--I take the heirloom and run. So Diego can blame me--his bad little brother ran off with it. And the engagement drags on and they don't find the heirloom." "Is that your only plan?" Cristina said. "Delay forever?" Jaime frowned at her. "I don't think you entirely appreciate that I've been very bravely on the run for months now," he said. "Very bravely." "We are Nephilim, Jaime. It's our job to be brave," Cristina said. "Some of us are better at it than others," Jaime said. "Anyway. I would not say our whole plan is to delay, no. Diego works to find out what the Cohort's weaknesses are. And I work to find out what the heirloom does exactly." "You don't know?" He shook his head. "I know it helps you enter Faerie undetected." "And the Cohort wants to be able to enter Faerie so they can start a war?" Cristina guessed. "That would make sense," said Jaime. "To them, anyway." Cristina sat on the bed in silence. Outside it had begun to rain. Water streaked the windowpanes. She thought of rain on the trees in the Bosque, and sitting there with Jaime, watching him eat bags of Dorilocos and lick the salt off his fingers. And talking--talking for hours, about literally everything, about what they would do when they were parabatai and could travel anywhere in the world. "Where are you going to go?" she said finally, trying to keep her voice steady. "I can't tell you." He pulled himself away from the desk. "I can't tell anyone. I am a good escape artist, Cristina, but only if I never tell where I'm hiding." "You don't know, do you," she said. "You're going to improvise." He smiled sideways. "No one knows me better than you." "And Diego?" Cristina's voice shook. "Why didn't he ever tell me any of this?" "People do stupid things when they're in love," said Jaime, in the voice of someone who never had been. "And besides, I asked him not to." "So why are you telling me now?" "Two things," he said. "In Down world, they say the Blackthorns are going up against the Cohort. If it comes to a fight, I want to be in it. Send me a fire-message. I will come." His tone was earnest. "And secondly, to deliver Diego's message. He said you might be too angry to read it. But I was hoping that now--you would not be." She looked down at the envelope in her hand. It had been bent and folded many times. "I'll read it," she said quietly. "Won't you stay? Eat a meal with us. You look starved." Jaime shook his head. "No one can know I was here, Tina. Promise me. On the fact that we were once going to be parabatai." "That isn't fair," she whispered. "Besides, Drusilla knows." "She won't tell anyone--" Jaime began. "Cristina!" It was Mark's voice, echoing down the hallway. "Cristina, where are you?" Jaime's arms were around her suddenly, wiry-strong as he hugged her hard. When he let go, she touched his face lightly. There were a million things she wanted to say --ten cuidado more than anything: Be safe, be careful. But he was already turning away from her, toward the window. He threw it open and ducked outside like a shadow, vanishing into the rain- streaked night. <|title|>Chapter 25: Start and Sigh <|startofchapter|>Gwyn wouldn't come into the Institute. Kit didn't know if it was principle or preference, but despite the fact that his arm was bleeding, soaking the side of his gray armor, the Wild Hunt leader only shook his head when Alec invited him cordially into the Institute. "I am the head of the London Institute, however temporarily," Alec said. "I am empowered to invite whoever I want inside." "I cannot linger," Gwyn demurred. "There is much to be done." It had begun to rain. Alec was on the roof along with Mark, who had greeted Livvy and Ty with a mixture of terror and relief. The twins were still standing close to their brother, his arm around Livvy's shoulder, his hand clasping Ty's sleeve. There was no one to greet Kit that way. He stood off a little to the side, watching. The ride on horseback from the river--Gwyn seemed to be able to summon horses out of the air, like a magician conjuring pennies--had been a blur; Ty and Livvy had ridden with Diana, and Kit had wound up behind Gwyn, clinging desperately to his belt and trying not to fall off the horse into the Thames. "I cannot stay among all this cold iron," Gwyn said, and he did look fairly peaked, in Kit's opinion. "And you, Blackthorns--you should get yourself inside the Institute. Within its walls you are safe." "What about Emma and Jules?" Livvy said. "They could be outside, the Riders could be looking for them--" "Magnus went to find them," Alec reassured her. "He'll make sure they're all right." Livvy nodded gravely, but she still looked worried. "We might need some help from you, Diana," said Alec. "We're sending the children to Alicante as soon as Magnus returns." "Which children?" asked Diana. She had a soft, low voice; now it was rough with tiredness. "Just yours, or..." "Tavvy and Drusilla as well," Alec said. He eyed Livvy and Ty: Kit guessed that if he had his druthers, Alec would bring the twins along, too, but knew they'd never stand for it. "Ah," said Diana. "Might I suggest that rather than taking up residence with the Inquisitor in Alicante, you stay with me on Flintlock Street? It would be good if the Cohort didn't know you were there." "My thought exactly," said Alec. "Better to stay under the radar of the Dearborns and their ilk, especially just before the Council meeting." He frowned. "And hopefully we'll be able to get the binding spell off Mark and Cristina before we need to leave. Otherwise they might not be able to--" "One of the Riders was killed," Kit said. Everyone stared at him. He wasn't sure why he'd spoken, himself. The world seemed to be swaying around him, and strange things were important. "You remember," he said. "It's why they fled, in the end. One of them had died, and the others could feel it. Maybe Julian and Emma fought them and won." "No one can kill one of the Riders of Mannan," said Gwyn. "Emma could," said Livyy. "If Cortana--" Kit's knees gave out. It was very sudden and he hadn't expected it at all. One moment he was standing, the next he was kneeling in a cold puddle, wondering why he couldn't get up. "Kit!" Diana cried. "Alec, he hit his head during the fight--he said it didn't hurt, but--" Alec was already striding over to Kit. He was stronger than he looked. His arms braced Kit, lifting him; a hot dart of pain went through Kit's head as he moved, and a merciful grayness closed in. They lay on the bed afterward in the twilight dark, Emma with her head on Julian's chest. She could hear his heart beating through the soft material of his T-shirt. They had toweled their hair and put on dry clothes and curled up together under one layer of blankets. Their feet were tangled together; Julian was running a slow, thoughtful hand through her loose hair. "Tell me," he said. "You said there was something I needed to know. And I stopped you." He paused. "Tell me now." She folded her arms on his chest, resting her chin on them. There was relaxation in the curve of his body around hers. But his expression was more than curious; she could see the intensity in the back of his eyes, his need to know. To make sense out of all the pieces that didn't make sense now. "I was never dating Mark," she said. "That was all a lie. I asked him to pretend to be dating me, and he had said he owed me his life before, so he agreed. It was never real." His fingers stilled in her hair. Emma swallowed. She had to get through all this without thinking of whether Julian would hate her at the end. Otherwise she'd never be able to finish. "Why would you do that?" he said carefully. "Why would Mark agree to hurt me?" "He didn't know it was hurting you," Emma said. "He never knew there was anything between us--not until we went to Faerie. He found out then, and he told me we had to end it. That's why I stopped things in London. Mark didn't mind. We didn't feel that way about each other." "So Mark didn't know," he said. "Why did you do it, then?" He held up a hand. "Never mind. I know the answer: to stop me loving you. To break us up. I even know why you picked Mark." "I wish it could have been anyone else--" "No one else would have made me hate you," he said flatly. "Nobody else would have made me give you up." He propped himself up on his elbow, looking down at her. "Make me understand," he said. "You love me and I love you, but you wanted to wreck all that. You were so determined you brought Mark into it, which I know you'd never do if you weren't desperate. So what made you so desperate, Emma? I know being in love with your parabatai is forbidden, but it's a stupid Law--" "It's not," she said, "a stupid Law." He blinked. His hair was dry now. "Whatever you know, Emma," he said in a low voice, "it's time to tell me." So she did. Leaving nothing out, she told him what Malcolm had said to her about the parabatai curse, how he was showing her mercy, killing her, when otherwise she and Julian would watch each other die. How the Nephilim hated love. What Jem had confirmed for her: the terrible fate of parabatai who fell in love; the death and destruction they would bring down around them. How she knew that neither of them could ever become mundanes or Downworlders to break the bond: how being Shadowhunters was part of their souls and their selves, how the exile from their families would destroy them. The light from the fire threw a dark gold glow across his face, his hair, but she could see how pale he was, even under that, and the starkness that took over his expression as she spoke, as if the shadows were growing harsher. Outside, the rain poured steadily down. When she was done, he was silent a long time. Emma's mouth was dry, as if she'd been swallowing cotton. Finally she could stand it no longer and moved toward him, knocking the pillow onto the floor. "Jules--" He held a hand up. "Why didn't you tell me any of this?" She looked at him miserably. "Because of what Jem said. That finding out that what we had was forbidden for good reason would just make it worse. Believe me, knowing what I know hasn't made me love you any less." His eyes were such a dark blue in the dim light they looked like Kit's. "So you decided to make me hate you." "I tried," she whispered. "I didn't know what else to do." "But I could never hate you," he said. "Hating you would be like hating the idea of good things ever happening in the world. It would be like death. I thought you didn't love me, Emma. But I never hated you." "And I thought you didn't love me." "And it didn't make any difference, did it? We still loved each other. I understand why you were so upset about what we did to Porthallow Church, now." She nodded. "The curse makes you stronger before it makes you destructive." "I'm glad you told me." He touched her cheek, her hair. "Now we know nothing we can do will change how we feel about each other. We'll have to find another solution." There were tears on Emma's face, though she didn't remember starting to cry. "I thought if you stopped loving me, you'd be sad for a while. And if I was sad forever, that would be okay. Because you'd be all right, and I'd still be your parabatai. And if you could be happy eventually, then I could be happy too, for you." "You're an idiot," Julian said. He put his arms around her and rocked her, his lips against her hair, and he whispered, the way he whispered when Tavvy had nightmares, that she was brave to have done what she did, that they'd fix it all, they'd find a way. And even though Emma could still see no way out for them, she relaxed against his chest, letting herself feel the relief of having shared the burden, just for this moment. "But I can't be angry. There's something I should have told you, as well." She drew away from him. "What is it?" He was fiddling with his glass bracelet. Since Julian rarely expressed any anxiety in a visible way, Emma felt her heart thump. "Julian," she said. "Tell me." "When we were going into Faerie," he said in a low voice, "the phouka told me that if I entered the Lands, I would meet someone who knew how to break the parabatai bond." The thumping of Emma's heart became a rapid tattoo beating against the inside of her rib cage. She sat up straight. "Are you saying you know how to break it?" He shook his head. "The wording was correct--I met someone who did know how to break it. The Seelie Queen, to be precise. And she told me she knew it could be done, but not how." "Is that part of returning the book?" Emma said. "We give her the Black Volume, she tells us how to end the bond?" He nodded. He was looking at the fire. "You didn't tell me," she said. "Is that because you thought I wouldn't care?" "Partially," he said. "If you didn't want the bond broken, then neither did I. I'd rather be your parabatai than nothing." "Jules-- Julian --" "And there's more," he said. "She told me there would be a cost." Of course, a cost. There is always a cost when faeries are involved. "What kind of cost?" she whispered. "Breaking the bond involves using the Black Volume to dig out the root of all parabatai ceremonies," said Julian. "It would break our bond, yes. But it would also destroy every parabatai bond in the world. They'd all be snapped. There'd be no more parabatai." Emma stared at him in absolute shock. "We couldn't possibly do that. Alec and Jace-- Clary and Simon--there are so many others--" "You think I don't know that? But I couldn't not tell you. You have a right to know." Emma felt as if she could barely breathe. "The Queen--" A sharp bang echoed through the room, as if someone had set off a firecracker. Magnus Bane appeared in their kitchen, wrapped in a long black coat, his right hand sparking blue fire, his expression thunderous. "Why in the names of the nine princes of Hell are neither of you answering your phone?" he demanded. Emma and Julian gaped at him. After a moment, he gaped back. "My God," he said. "Are you... ?" He didn't finish the question. He didn't have to. Emma and Julian scrambled out of the bed. They were both mostly dressed, but Magnus was looking at them as if he'd caught them in flagrante. "Magnus," Julian said. He didn't follow up his greeting by saying it wasn't like that, or Magnus was getting the wrong idea. Julian didn't say things like that. "What's going on? Is something wrong at home?" Magnus looked, at that moment, like he was feeling his age. "Parabatai," he said, and sighed. "Yes, something's wrong. We need to get you back to the Institute. Grab your things and get ready to leave." He leaned back against the kitchen island, crossing his arms. He was wearing a sort of greatcoat with several layers of short capes in the back. He was dry--he must have Portaled from inside the Institute. "There's blood on your sword, Emma," he said, looking at where Cortana was propped against the wall. "Faerie blood," said Emma. Julian was yanking on a sweater and running his fingers through his wild hair. "When you say faerie blood," Magnus said, "you mean the Riders, don't you?" Emma saw Julian start. "They were looking for us--how would you know?" "They weren't just looking for you. The King sent them to find the Black Volume. He instructed them to hunt all of you--all the Blackthorns." "To hunt us?" Julian demanded. "Is anyone hurt?" He strode across the room to Magnus, almost as if he meant to grab the warlock by his shirt and shake him. "Is anyone in my family hurt?" "Julian." Magnus's voice was firm. "Everyone's fine. But the Riders did come. They attacked Kit, Ty, and Livvy." "And they're all right?" Emma demanded anxiously, shoving her feet into boots. "Yes--I got a fire-message from Alec," Magnus said. "Kit got a bump on the head. Ty and Livvy, not a scratch. But they were lucky--Gwyn and Diana intervened." "Diana and Gwyn? Together?" Emma was baffled. "Emma killed one of the Riders," Julian said. He was gathering up Annabel's portfolio, Malcolm's diaries, shoving them into his bag. "We hid his body up on the cliff, but we probably shouldn't leave it there." Magnus whistled between his teeth. "No one's killed one of Mannan's Riders in--well, in all the history I know." Emma shuddered, remembering the cold feeling as the blade had gone into Fal's body. "It was horrible." "The rest of them are not gone forever," said Magnus. "They will come back." Julian zipped his bag and Emma's. "Then we need to take the children somewhere safe. Somewhere the Riders won't find them." "Right now, the Institute is the safest place outside Idris," said Magnus. "It's warded, and I'll ward it again." "The cottage is safe too," Emma said, hoisting her bag over her shoulder. It was twice as heavy as it had been before with the addition of Malcolm's books. "The Riders can't come near it; they said so." "Thoughtful of Malcolm," said Magnus. "But you'd be trapped in the house if you stayed, and I can't imagine you'd want to be unable to leave these four walls." "No," Julian said, but he said it quietly. Emma could see Magnus raking his gaze over the interior of the cottage--the mess of teacups they hadn't cleaned up, the signs of Julian's cooking, the disarray of the bedcovers, the remains of the fire in the grate. A place built by and for two people who loved each other yet weren't allowed to, and that had sheltered two more such people two hundred years later. "I suppose we wouldn't." There was sympathy in Magnus's eyes when he looked back at Julian, and at Emma, too. "All dreams end when you wake," he said. "Now, come. I'll Portal us home." Dru watched the rain streak her bedroom windows. Outside, London was a blur, the glow of streetlights expanding in the rain to become yellow dandelion clocks of light perched on elongated metal posts. She had been in the library long enough to tell Mark that she was fine, before he'd gotten worried about Cristina and gone looking for her. When they'd both returned, Dru's stomach had tightened with fear. She'd been sure Cristina was going to tell--tell everyone about Jaime, spill her secret, spill his. The expression on Cristina's face wasn't comforting, either. "Can I talk to you in the hall, Dru?" she had said. Dru nodded and put her book down. She hadn't been reading it anyway. Mark had gone over to Kieran and the children, and Dru followed Cristina out into the hall. "Thank you," Cristina said, as soon as the door was shut. "For helping Jaime." Dru cleared her throat. Being thanked seemed like a good sign. At least a sign that Cristina wasn't mad. Maybe. Cristina smiled. She had dimples. Dru immediately wished she had them too. Did she? She'd have to check. Though smiling at herself in the mirror sounded a little bizarre. "Don't worry, I won't tell anyone he was here, or that you helped him. It must not have been easy, putting up with him as you did." "I didn't mind," Dru said. "He listened to me." Cristina's dark eyes were sad. "He used to listen to me, once, too." "Is he going to be all right?" Dru asked. "I think so," Cristina said. "He has always been smart and careful." She touched Dru's cheek. "I'll let you know if I hear from him." And that was that. Dru had gone back to her bedroom, feeling hollow. She knew she'd been supposed to stay in the library, but she needed to be where she could think. She'd sat on the edge of her bed, kicking her legs listlessly. She wanted Jaime to be there so she'd have someone to talk to. She wanted to talk about the fact that Magnus looked tired, that Mark was stressed, that she was worried about Emma and Jules. She wanted to talk about how she missed home, the smell of the ocean and desert. She swung her legs harder--and her heel collided with something. Bending down, she saw with surprise that Jaime's duffel bag was still stuffed under her bed. She pulled it out from under the mattress, trying not to spill the contents. It was already unzipped. He must have shoved it there in a hurry when Cristina came in, but why would he leave it? Did it mean he was planning on coming back? Or had he just left behind the stuff he didn't need? She didn't mean to look inside, or at least that was what she told herself later. It wasn't that she needed to know if he was coming back. It was just an accident. Stuffed inside were a jumble of boy's clothes, a bunch of jeans and shirts, and a few books, spare steles, unactivated seraph blades, a balisong not unlike Cristina's, and some photographs. And something else, something that shone so brightly that she thought for a moment it was a witchlight--but the illumination was less white than that. It glowed with a dim, deep gold color, like the surface of the ocean. Before she knew it, her hand was on it-- She felt herself jerked off her feet, as if she were being sucked into a Portal. She yanked her hand back, but she was no longer touching anything. She was no longer in her room at all. She was underground, in a long corridor dug out of the earth. The roots of trees grew down into the space, like the curling ribbon on expensively wrapped gifts. The corridor stretched away on either side of her into shadows that deepened like no shadows above ground. Dru's heart was pounding. A terrible sense of unreality choked her. It was as if she'd traveled through a Portal, but with no idea where she'd gone, with no sense of familiarity. Even the air in the place smelled like something strange and dark, some kind of scent she'd never breathed before. Dru reached automatically for the weapons at her belt, but there was nothing there. She'd come here completely unprepared, in only jeans and a black T-shirt with cats on it. She choked back a hysterical laugh and moved to press herself against the wall of the underground corridor, keeping to the depth of the shadows. Lights appeared at the end of the hall. Dru could hear high, sweet voices in the distance. Their chatter was like the chatter of birds. Faeries. She moved blindly in the other direction, and nearly fell backward when the wall gave way behind her and became a curtain of fabric. She stumbled through and found herself in a large stone room. The walls were squares of green marble, veined with thick black lines. Some of the squares were carved with golden patterns--a hawk, a throne, a crown divided into two pieces. There were weapons in the room, ranged around on the surfaces of different tables--swords and daggers of copper and bronze, hooks and spikes and maces of all sorts of metal except iron. There was also a boy in the room. A boy her age, maybe thirteen. He had turned around when she came in, and now he stared at her in astonishment. "How dare you come into this room?" His voice was sharp, imperious. He wore rich clothing, silk and velvet, heavy leather boots. His hair was white-blond, the color of witchlight. It was cut short, and a pale band of metal encircled it at his brow. "I didn't mean to." Dru swallowed. "I just want to get out of here," she said. "That's all I want." His green eyes burned. "Who are you?" He took a step forward, snatching a dagger up off the table beside him. "Are you a Shadowhunter?" Dru raised her chin and stared back at him. "Who are you?" she demanded. "And why are you so rude?" To her surprise, he smiled, and there was something familiar about it. "I'm called Ash," he said. "Did my mother send you?" He sounded hopeful. "Is she worried about me?" "Drusilla!" said a voice. "Dru! Dru!" Dru looked around in confusion: Where was the voice coming from? The walls of the room were starting to darken, to melt and merge. The boy in the rich clothes with his sharp faerie's face looked at her in confusion, raising his dagger, as more holes began to open around her: in the walls, in the floor. She shrieked as the ground gave way beneath her and she fell into darkness. The whirling air caught her again, the cold spinning almost-Portal, and then she slammed back to reality on the floor of her bedroom. She was alone. She gasped and choked, trying to pull herself to her knees. Her heart felt as if it was going to rip its way out of her chest. Her mind spun--the terror of being underground, the terror of not knowing if she'd ever return home, the terror of an alien place--and yet the images slipped away from her, as if she were trying to hold on to water or wind. Where ruus I? What happened ? She raised herself to her knees, feeling sick and nauseated. She blinked away the dizziness --there were green eyes in the back of her vision, green eyes--and saw that Jaime's duffel bag was gone. Her window was propped open, the floor damp below the window. He must have come in and out while she was... gone. But where had she been? She didn't remember. "Dru!" The voice came again. Mark's voice. And another impatient knock on her door. "Dru, didn't you hear me? Emma and Jules are back." "There," Diana said, checking the bandage on Gwyn's arm one last time. "I wish I could give you an iratze, but..." She let her voice trail off, feeling silly. She was the one who had insisted they go to her rooms in Alicante so she could bandage his wound, and Gwyn had been quiet ever since. He had slapped his horse's flank after they'd climbed from it into her window, sending it soaring into the sky. She'd wondered as he looked around her room, his bicolored eyes taking in all the visible traces of her life--the used coffee mugs, the pajamas thrown into a corner, the ink-stained desk--whether she'd made the right decision bringing him here. She had let so few people into her personal space for so many years, showing only what she wanted to show, controlling access to her inner self so carefully. She had never thought the first man she allowed into her room in Idris would be an odd and beautiful faerie, but she knew when he winced violently as he sat down on her bed that she had made the right call. She'd gritted her teeth in sympathetic pain as he started to peel away his barklike armor. Her father had always kept extra bandages in the bathroom; when she returned from her trip there, gauze in hand, she found Gwyn shirtless and grumpy-looking on her rumpled blanket, his brown hair almost the same color as her wooden walls. His skin was several shades paler, smooth and taut over bones that were just a shade alien. "I do not need to be ministered to," he said. "I have always bandaged my own wounds." Diana didn't answer, just set about making a field dressing. Sitting behind him as she worked, she realized it was the closest she'd ever been to him. She'd thought his skin would feel like bark, like his armor, but it didn't: It felt like leather, the very softest kind that was used to make scabbards for delicate blades. "We all have wounds that are sometimes better cared for by someone else," she said, setting the box of bandages aside. "And what of your wounds?" he said. "I wasn't injured." She got to her feet, ostensibly to prove to him that she was fine, walking and breathing. Part of it was also to put some distance between them. Her heart was skipping beats in a way she didn't trust. "You know that is not what I meant," he said. "I see how you care for those children. Why do you not just offer to head the Los Angeles Institute? You would make a better leader than Arthur Blackthorn ever did." Diana swallowed, though her mouth was dry. "Does it matter?" "It matters in that I wish to know you," he said. "I would kiss you, but you draw away from me; I would know your heart, but you hide it in shadow. Is it that you do not like or want me? Because in that case I will not trouble you." There was no intention to cause guilt in his voice, only a plain statement of fact. If he had made a more emotional plea, perhaps she would not have responded. As it was, she found herself crossing the room, picking up a book from the shelf by the bed. "If you think there's something I'm hiding, then I suppose you're right," she said. "But I doubt it's what you think." She raised her chin, thinking of her namesake, goddess and warrior, who had nothing to apologize for. "It's nothing I did wrong. I'm not ashamed; I've no reason to be. But the Clave--" She sighed. "Here. Take this." Gwyn took the book from her, solemn-faced. "This is a book of law," he said. She nodded. "The laws of investiture. It details the ceremonies by which Shadowhunters take on new positions: how one is sworn in as Consul, or Inquisitor, or the head of an Institute." She leaned over him, opening the book to a well-examined page. "Here. When you're sworn in as the head of an Institute, you must hold the Mortal Sword and answer the Inquisitor's questions. The questions are law. They never change." Gwyn nodded. "Which of the questions is it," he said, "that you do not want to answer?" "Pretend you are the Inquisitor," Diana said, as if he hadn't spoken. "Ask the questions, and I will answer as if I'm holding the Sword, entirely truthfully." Gwyn nodded. His eyes were dark with curiosity and something else as he began to read aloud. "Are you a Shadowhunter?" "Yes," said Diana. "Were you born a Shadowhunter, or did you Ascend?" "I was born a Shadowhunter." "What is your family name?" "Wrayburn." "And what was the name you were given at birth?" asked Gwyn. "David," said Diana. "David Laurence Wrayburn." Gwyn looked puzzled. "I do not understand." "I am a woman," said Diana. "I always have been. I always knew I was a girl, whatever the Silent Brothers told my parents, whatever the contradiction of my body. My sister, Aria, knew too. She said she'd known it from the moment I could talk. But my parents--" She broke off. "They weren't unkind, but they didn't know the options. They told me I should live as myself at home, but in public, be David. Be the boy I knew I wasn't. Stay under the radar of the Clave. "I knew that would be living a lie. Still, it was a secret the four of us kept. Yet with every year my crushing despair grew. I withdrew from interaction with other Shadowhunters our age. At every moment, waking and sleeping, I felt anxious and uncomfortable. And I feared I would never be happy. Then I turned eighteen. My sister was nineteen. We went to Thailand together to study at the Bangkok Institute. I met Catarina Loss there." "Catarina Loss," said Gwyn. "She knows. That you are--that you were--" He frowned. "I'm sorry. I don't know how to say it. That you were named David by your parents?" "She knows," Diana said. "She didn't know at the time. In Thailand, I lived as the woman I am. I dressed as myself. Aria introduced me as her sister. I was happy. For the first time I felt free, and I chose a name for myself that embraced that freedom. My father's weapons shop had always been called Diana's Arrow, after the goddess of the hunt, who was proud and free. I named myself Diana. I am Diana." She took a ragged breath. "And then my sister and I went out to explore an island where it was rumored there were Thotsakan demons. It turned out not to be demons at all, but revenants--hungry ghosts. Dozens of them. We fought them, but we were both injured. Catarina rescued us. Rescued me. When I woke up in a small house not far away, Catarina was caring for us. I knew she had seen my injuries--that she had seen my body. I knew she knew..." "Diana," said Gwyn in his deep voice, and stretched out a hand. But Diana shook her head. "Don't," she said. "Or I won't be able to get through it." Her eyes were burning with unshed tears. "I pulled the rags of my clothes around my body. I screamed for my sister. But she was dead, had died while Catarina ministered to her. I broke down completely then. I had lost everything. My life was destroyed. That's what I thought." A tear slipped down her face. "Catarina nursed me back to health and sanity. I was in that cottage with her for weeks. And she talked to me. She gave me words, which I'd never had, as a gift. It was the first time I heard the word 'transgender.' I broke into tears. I had never realized before how much you can take from someone by not allowing them the words they need to describe themselves. How can you know there are other people like you, when you've never had a name to call yourself? I know there must have been other transgender Shadowhunters, that they must have existed in the past and exist now. But I have no way to search for them and it would be dangerous to ask." A flicker of anger at the old injustice sharpened her voice. "Then Catarina told me of transitioning. That I could live as myself, the way I needed to and be acknowledged as who I am. I knew it was what I wanted. "I went with Catarina to Bangkok. But not as David. I went as Diana. And I did not go as a Shadowhunter. I lived with Catarina in a small apartment. I told my parents of Aria's death and that I was Diana now: They replied that they had told the Council that David was the one who had died. That they loved me and understood, but that I must live in the mundane world now, for I was seeing mundane doctors and that was against the law. "It was too late for me to stop them. The Clave was told that David had died out on the island, fighting revenants. They gave David my sister's death, a death with honor. I wished they had not lied, but if they had to wear white for the boy who was gone, even if he'd never really existed, I couldn't deny them that. "Catarina had worked as a nurse for years. She knew mundane medicine. She brought me to a clinic in Bangkok. I met others like myself there. I wasn't alone any longer. I was there for three years. I never planned to be a Shadowhunter again. What I was gaining was too precious. I couldn't risk being discovered, having my secrets flayed open, being called by a man's name, having who I was denied. "Through the years, Catarina guided me through the mundane medical procedure that gave me the body in whose skin I felt comfortable. She hid my unusual test results from the doctors so they would never be puzzled by my Shadowhunter blood." "Mundane medicine," Gwyn echoed. "It is forbidden, is it not, for a Shadowhunter to seek out mundane medical treatment? Why did Catarina not simply use magic to aid you?" Diana shook her head. "I wouldn't have wanted that," she said. "A magic spell can always be undone by another spell. I will not have the truth of myself be something that can be dissolved by a stray enchantment or passing through the wrong magical gate. My body is my body --the body I have grown into as a woman, as all women grow into their bodies." Gwyn nodded, though Diana couldn't tell if he understood. "So that is what you fear," was all he said. "I'm not afraid for myself," said Diana. "I'm afraid for the children. As long as I'm their tutor, I feel like I can protect them in some way. If the Clave knew what I'd done, that I'd sought out mundane doctors, I'd wind up in prison under the Silent City. Or in the Basilias, if they were being kind." "And your parents?" Gwyn's face was unreadable. Diana wished he would give her some kind of sign. Was he angry? Would he mock her? His calmness was making her pulse race. "Did they come to you? You must have missed them." "I feared to expose them to the Clave." Diana's voice hitched. "Each time they spoke of a clandestine visit to Bangkok, I put them off. And then the news came that they had died, slain in a demon attack. Catarina was the one who told me. I wept all night. I could not tell my mundane friends of my parents' deaths because they would not understand why I didn't return home for a funeral. "Then news came of the Mortal War. And I realized I was still a Shadowhunter. I could not let Idris suffer peril without a fight. I returned to Alicante. I told the Council that I was the daughter of Aaron and Lissa Wrayburn. Because that was the truth. They knew there had been a brother and a sister and the brother had died: I gave my name as Diana. In the chaos of war, no one questioned me. I rose up as Diana in battle. I fought as myself, with a sword in my hand and angel fire in my veins. And I knew I could never go back to being a mundane. Among my mundane friends I had to conceal the existence of Shadowhunters. Among the Shadowhunters I had to hide that I had once used mundane medicine. I knew either way I would have to hide a part of myself. I chose to be a Shadowhunter." "Who else has known all this? Besides Catarina?" "Malcolm knew. There is a medicine I must take, to maintain the balance of my body's hormones--I usually get it from Catarina, but there was a time she couldn't do it, and had Malcolm make it. After that, he knew. He never directly held it over my head, but I was always aware of his knowledge. That he could hurt me." "That he could hurt you," Gwyn murmured. His face was a mask. Diana could hear her heart beating in her ears. It was as if she had come to Gwyn with her heart in her hands, raw and bleeding, and now she waited for him to produce the knives. "All my life I've tried to find the place to be myself and I'm still looking for it," said Diana. "Because of that, I have hidden things from people I loved. And I have hidden this from you. But I have never lied about the truth of myself." What Gwyn did next surprised Diana. He rose from the bed, took a step forward, and went down on his knees in front of her. He did it gracefully, the way a squire might kneel to a knight or a knight to his lady. There was something ancient in the essence of the gesture, something that went back to the heart and core of the folk of Faerie. "It is as I knew," he said. "When I saw you upon the stairs of the Institute, and I saw the fire in your eyes, I knew you were the bravest woman ever to set foot on this earth. I regret only that such a fearless soul was ever hurt by the ignorance and fear of others." "Gwyn..." "May I hold you?" he asked. She nodded. She couldn't speak. She knelt down opposite the leader of the Wild Hunt and let him take her into his broad arms, let him stroke her hair and murmur her name in his voice that still sounded like the rumble of thunder--but now it was thunder heard from inside a warm, closed house, where everyone was safe inside. Tavvy was the first one to sense Emma and Julian's return when they Portaled back into the Institute library with Magnus. He had been sitting on the floor, systematically dismantling some old toys with the assistance of Max. The moment Julian felt the floor solid under his feet, Tavvy bounded upright and careened toward him, crashing into him like a train that had gone off its tracks. "Jules!" he exclaimed, and Julian swung him up into his arms and crushed him in a hug as Tavvy clung to him and babbled about what he'd seen and eaten and done in the past few days, and Jules ruffled his brother's hair and felt a tension he hadn't even known he was carrying go out of him. Cristina had been sitting with Rafe, talking to him quietly in Spanish. Mark was at a library table with Alec, and--to Julian's surprise--Kieran, a mass of books open in front of them. Cristina jumped to her feet and ran to hug Emma. Livvy came barreling into the room, Ty following more quietly after, and Julian lowered Tavvy to the ground--where he remained by Julian's side, gripping his leg--while he greeted the rest of his family in a blur of hugs and exclamations. Emma was hugging the twins, a sight that sent a dart of familiar pain through Julian's rib cage. The dread of separation, of pulling apart what belonged together: the dream of his family, Emma as his partner, the children their responsibility. A hand touched his shoulder, jolting him out of imagination. It was Mark, who looked at him with uneasiness. "Jules?" Of course. Mark didn't realize Julian knew the truth about him and Emma. He looked worried, hopeful, like a puppy who had come begging for scraps but half-expected to be slapped away from the table. Was I that had ? Julian wondered, guilt spearing through him. Mark hadn't even known, hadn't imagined Julian loving Emma. Had been horrified when he found out. Mark and Emma loved each other, but not romantically, which was what Julian would have wanted. His heart swelled with tenderness toward both of them for everything they had given up to protect him, for being willing to let him hate them if that was what it took. He drew Mark with him into a corner of the room. The hubbub of greeting went on all around them as Julian lowered his voice. "I know what you did," he said. "I know you were never really dating Emma. I'm grateful. I know it was for me." Mark looked surprised. "It was Emma's idea," he said. "Oh, believe me, I know." Julian put his hand on his brother's shoulder. "And you did a good job with the kids. Magnus told me. Thank you." Mark's face lit up. It made Julian's heart ache even harder. "I didn't-- I mean, they got in so much trouble--" "You loved them and you kept them alive," said Julian. "Sometimes that's the best anyone can do." Julian pulled his brother toward him into a hard hug. Mark made a muffled noise of surprise before his own arms went around Julian, half-crushing the breath out of him. Julian could feel his brother's heart hammering against his, as if the same relief and joy were beating through their shared blood. They drew apart after a moment. "So you and Emma . . . ?" Mark began, half-hesitantly. But before Julian could reply, Livvy had thrown herself at them, somehow managing to hug Julian and Mark at the same time, and the conversation vanished into laughter. Ty came more diffidently after her, smiling and touching Julian on the shoulder and then the hand as if to make sure he was really there. Tactile expression sometimes meant as much to Ty as what he could observe with his eyes. Mark was telling Emma that Dru was still in her room, but she'd be coming shortly. Magnus had gone to Alec, and the two were talking quietly by the fireplace. Only Kieran remained where he was, so silent and still at the table that he could have been a decorative plant. The sight of him flicked a memory in Julian's mind, though, and he looked around for blond hair and a sarcastic expression. "Where's Kit?" A flood of cross-explanations followed: the story of the Riders at the riverside, the way Gwyn and Diana had saved them, Kit's injury. Emma described the four Riders they'd encountered in Cornwall, though it was Julian who detailed the way Emma had killed one of them, which prompted a great deal of exclaiming. "I've never heard of anyone killing a Rider before," said Cristina, hurrying to the table to pick up a book. "But someone must have." "No." It was Kieran, his voice even and quiet. There was something in the timbre of it that reminded Julian of the Unseelie King's voice. "No one ever has. There have only ever been seven, the children of Mannan, and they have lived almost since the beginning of time. There must be something very special about you, Emma Carstairs." Emma flushed. "There isn't." Kieran was still looking at Emma curiously. He was wearing jeans and a cream-colored sweater. He looked alarmingly human, until you really examined his face and the uncanniness of his bone structure. "What was it like to kill something so old?" Emma hesitated. "It was like--have you ever held ice so long in your hand that the coldness hurt your skin?" After a pause, Kieran nodded. "It is a deathly pain." "It was like that." "So we're safe here," Julian said to Magnus, partly to forestall any further questions about the dead Rider. "In the Institute." "The Riders can't reach us here. They are warded away," said Magnus. "But Gwyn was able to land on the roof," Emma said. "So Fair Folk can't be completely shut "Gwyn is Wild Hunt. They're different." Magnus reached down to pick up Max, who giggled and pulled on his scarf. "Also I've doubled the wards around the Institute since this afternoon." "Where's Diana?" asked Julian. "She went back to Idris. She says she has to keep Jia and the Council happy and calm and expecting this meeting to take place with no hiccups." "But we don't have the Black Volume," Julian said. "Well, we still have a day and a half," said Emma. "To find Annabel." "Without leaving these hallowed walls?" Mark said. He sat down on the arm of one of the chairs. "We are kind of trapped." "I don't know if the Riders realize Alec and I are here," Magnus said. "Or perhaps we could prevail on Gwyn." "The danger seems pretty severe," said Emma. "We wouldn't feel right, asking for that kind of help." "Well I'm going back to Idris with the kids--I can certainly see what I can do from there." Alec flung himself down in a chair near Rafe and ruffled the boy's dark hair. Maybe Alec could get into Blackthorn Manor, Julian thought. He was exhausted, nerves frayed from one of the best and worst days of his life. But Blackthorn Manor was probably the place on earth Annabel had loved the most. His mind began to tick over the possibilities. "Annabel cared about Blackthorn Manor," he said. "Not Blackthorn Hall, here in London-- the family didn't own that yet. The one in Idris. She loved it." "So you think she might be there?" said Magnus. "No," said Julian. "She hates the Clave, hates Shadowhunters. She'd be too afraid to go to Idris. I was just thinking that if it was in danger, if it was threatened, she might be called out of where she's hiding." He could tell Emma was wondering why he wasn't mentioning that he'd seen Annabel in Cornwall; he wondered it a bit himself, but his instincts told him to keep it secret a little longer. "You're suggesting we burn down Blackthorn Manor?" said Ty, his eyebrows up around his hairline. "Oddly," Magnus muttered, "you wouldn't be the first people ever to have that idea." "Ty, don't sound so excited," Livvy said. "Pyromania interests me," said Ty. "I think you have to burn down several buildings before you can consider yourself to be an actual maniac for pyro," Emma said. "I think before that you're just an enthusiast." "I think setting a large fire in Idris will attract attention we don't want," said Mark. "I think we don't have a lot of choices," said Julian. "And I think we should eat," Livvy said hastily, patting her stomach. "I'm starving." "We can discuss what we know, especially regarding Annabel and the Black Volume," said Ty. "We can pool our information." Magnus glanced fleetingly at Alec. "After we eat we need to send the children to Idris. Diana's standing by on the other side to help us keep the Portal open, and I don't want her to have to wait too long." It was kind of him, Julian thought, to phrase it as if sending the children to Alicante was a favor Magnus was doing Diana, rather than a precaution taken to protect them. Tavvy skipped along with Rafe and Max to the dining room and Julian felt a pang, realizing how much his little brother had missed having friends close to his own age, even if he hadn't known it. "Jules?" He glanced down and saw that Dru was walking beside him. Her face was pale in the corridor's witchlight. "Yeah?" He resisted the urge to pat her cheek or pull her braids. She'd stopped appreciating that when she was ten. "I don't want to go to Alicante," she said. "I want to stay here with you." "Dru..." She hunched her shoulders up. "You were younger than me in the Dark War," she said. "I'm thirteen. You can send the babies where it's safe, but not me. I'm a Blackthorn, just like you." "So is Tavvy." "He's seven." Dru took a shaky breath. "You make me feel like I'm not part of this family." Julian stopped dead. Dru stopped with him, and they both watched as the others went into the dining room. Julian could hear Bridget scolding them all; apparently she'd been holding dinner for them for hours, though it had never occurred to her to find them and tell them so. "Dru," he said. "You really want to stay?" She nodded. "I really want to." "Then that's all you had to say. You can stay with us." She threw herself into his arms. Dru wasn't a huggy sort of person, and for a moment Julian was too surprised to move; then he put his arms around his sister and tightened them against the flood of memories--baby Dru sleeping in his arms, taking her first toddling steps, laughing as Emma held her over the water at the beach, barely getting her toes wet. "You're the heart of this family, baby girl," he said in the voice that only his brothers and sisters ever heard. "I promise you. You're our heart." Bridget had somewhat haphazardly set out cold chicken, bread, cheese, vegetables, and banoffee pie. Kieran picked at the vegetables while the rest of them talked over each other to lay out what they knew. Emma sat beside Julian. Every once in a while their shoulders would bump or their hands collide as they reached for something. Each touch sent a shower of sparks through him, like a small explosion of fireworks. Ty, his elbows on the table, took point on the discussion, explaining how he, Kit, and Livvy had found the aletheia crystal and the memories trapped within it. "Two hundred years ago Malcolm and Annabel broke into the Cornwall Institute," he explained, his graceful hands slicing through the air as he talked. Something seemed different about Ty, Julian thought, though how could his brother have changed in the few short days he'd been away? "They stole the Black Volume, but they were caught." "Do we know why they wanted it?" Cristina asked. "I do not see how necromancy would have helped them." "They planned to trade it to someone else, it looks like," said Emma. "The book wasn't for them. Someone had promised to trade them protection from the Clave for it." "It was a time when a relationship between a Shadowhunter and a Downworlder could have meant a death sentence for both of them," said Magnus. "Protection would have been a very attractive offer." "They never got that far," Ty said. "They were caught and thrown in prison in the Silent City, and the Black Volume was taken from them and returned to the Cornwall Institute. Then something weird happened." He frowned. Ty didn't like not knowing things. "Malcolm disappeared. He left Annabel to be questioned and tortured." "He wouldn't have done that willingly," said Julian. "He loved her." "People can betray even those they love," said Mark. "No, Julian's right," said Emma. "I hate Malcolm more than anyone, but he absolutely would never have left Annabel. She was his whole life." "It's still what happened," said Ty. "They tortured Annabel for information until she pretty much lost her mind," said Livvy. "Then they released her to her family. And they killed her and told everyone she'd become an Iron Sister. But it wasn't true." There was a tightness in Julian's throat. He thought of Annabel's drawings, the lightness in them, the hope, the love for Blackthorn Manor in Idris and for Malcolm. "Fast-forward almost a hundred years," said Emma. "Malcolm goes to the Unseelie King. He's found out that Annabel wasn't an Iron Sister, that she was murdered. He's out for bloody vengeance." She paused, combing her fingers back through her hair, still tangled from Cornish wind and rain. "The Unseelie King tells him how to raise Annabel, but there's a catch --Malcolm needs the Black Volume to do it, and now he doesn't have it. It's in the Cornwall Institute. He broke in there once, he doesn't dare do it again. So there it stays until the Blackthorns who run the Institute move to Los Angeles, and they take it with them." Ty's eyes lit up. "Right. And Malcolm sees his chance when Sebastian Morgenstern attacks, and takes the book. He starts to raise Annabel, and finally he succeeds." "Except she's pissed off and kills him," said Emma. "How ungrateful," said Kieran. "Ungrateful?" Emma said. "He was a murderer. She was right to kill him." "He may have been a murderer," said Kieran, "but it sounds as if he became one for her. He killed to give her life." "Maybe she didn't want life," said Alec. He shrugged. "He never did ask her what she wanted, did he?" As if sensing the tense atmosphere at the table, Max began to wail. With a sigh, Alec picked him up and carried him out of the room. "I'm sure it's useful to know all this," said Magnus. "But does it bring us closer to the Black Volume?" "Maybe if we had more time, and the Riders weren't after us," said Julian. "I think," said Kieran slowly, his gaze unfocused, "that it was my father." Apparently it was his day for startling pronouncements. Everyone stared at him again. To Julian's surprise, it was Cristina who spoke. "What do you mean, it was your father?" "I think he was the one who wanted the book all those years ago, when Malcolm first stole it," said Kieran. "He is the thread that ties all this together. He wanted the book then and he wants it now." "But why do you think he wanted it then?" Julian said. He kept his voice low and gentle. What Emma thought of as his leading-the-witness voice. "Because of something Adaon said." Kieran was looking down at his hands. "He said my father had wanted the book since the First Heir was stolen. It is an old story in Faerie, the theft of my father's first child. It happened more than two hundred years ago." Cristina looked stunned. "I didn't realize that's what he meant." "The First Heir." Magnus's eyes looked unfocused. "I have heard that tale, or heard of it. The child was not just stolen, but murdered." "So the story goes," said Kieran. "Perhaps my father wished to use necromancy to raise the child. I could not speak of his motives. But he could have offered Fade and Annabel protection in the Unseelie Lands. No Shadowhunter could touch them if they were safe in Faerie." Emma set her fork down with a clang. "Pretentious hair prince is right." Kieran blinked. "What did you call me?" "I'm trying it out," Emma said, with a wave. "And I said you were right. Enjoy it, because I doubt I'll say it again." Magnus nodded. "The King is one of the few beings on this earth who could have kidnapped Malcolm from the prisons of the Silent City. He must not have wanted him to reveal their connection to the Council." "But why didn't he take Annabel, too?" Livvy asked, a forkful of pie halfway to her mouth. "Maybe because Malcolm had disappointed him by getting caught," said Mark. "Maybe he wanted to punish them both." "But Annabel could have told on them," said Livvy. "She could have said Malcolm was working for the King." "Not if she didn't know," said Emma. "There was nothing in the diaries Malcolm kept that mentioned who he was stealing the book for, and I bet he didn't tell Annabel, either." "They tortured her," said Ty, "and she still couldn't say who it was, just that she had no idea. It must have been the truth." "That explains why when he found out Annabel wasn't an Iron Sister, that he'd been lied to, Malcolm went to the Unseelie King," said Julian. "Because he knew him." "So once the King wanted the book for necromancy," Cristina said. "Now he wants it so he can destroy Shadowhunters?" "Not all necromancy is raising the dead." Magnus was gazing at the glass of wine by his plate as if there was some kind of secret hidden in its depth. "One moment," he said, and scooped up Rafe from the chair beside him. He turned to Tavvy. "Would you like to come with us? And play with Alexander and Max?" After a glance at Julian, Tavvy nodded. The group of them left the room, Magnus gesturing that he would be right back. "This is just one meeting," said Emma. "First we need to get the Council to believe that the Unseelie Court is an immediate threat. Right now they can't tell good faeries from bad and aren't interesting in trying." "Which is where Kieran's testimony comes in," said Mark. "And there is some evidence-- there's the blight Diana said she saw in Brocelind Forest, and the report from the Shadowhunters who said they fought a band of faeries but their weapons malfunctioned." "It's not a lot to go on," said Livvy. "Especially considering Zara and her nasty little band of bigots. They are going to try to seize power at this meeting. They're going to try to grab the Institute. They couldn't care less about some vague faerie threat." "I can make the Clave fear my father," said Kieran. "But it may take all of us to make them understand that if they do not wish for a new era of darkness, they must abandon their dreams of extending the Cold Peace." "No registering warlocks," said Ty. "No putting werewolves into camps." "The Downworlders who have seats on the Council all know about the Cohort," said Magnus, returning without the children. "If it actually comes down to a vote about who heads the Los Angeles Institute, they'll have to bring in Maia and Lily, as well as me. We're entitled to vote." He threw himself down in the chair at the head of the table. "That's still just three votes, even if you vote against the Cohort," said Julian. "It's a tricky business," Magnus agreed. "According to Diana, Jia doesn't want Zara heading up the Los Angeles Institute any more than we do. She'll be hard to discredit at the moment--with her lie about killing Malcolm, she's pretty popular right now." Emma made a growling noise low in her throat. Cristina patted her hand. "Meanwhile what we have is the promise that the Queen will fight with us against a threat the Council is unlikely to believe in, and even then only if she gets a book that we don't currently have and wouldn't be allowed to give her if we did," Magnus said. "Our bargain with the Seelie Queen is our business," said Julian. "Right now, we say that she's shown herself willing to cooperate under the right circumstances. Kieran's empowered to promise she'll help. He doesn't need to go into details." "Brother, you think like a faerie," said Mark, in a tone that made Julian wonder if that was a good thing or not. "Maybe the King wants to raise an army of the dead," said Dru hopefully. "I mean, it is a book of necromancy." Magnus sighed, tapping a fingernail against his glass thoughtfully. "Necromancy is about doing magic that uses the energy of death to power it. All magic needs fuel. Death energy is incredibly powerful fuel. It's also incredibly destructive. The destruction of the land that you saw in Faerie, the blight in Brocelind--they are the scars left by terrible magic. The question remains--what is his ultimate goal?" "You mean he needs more energy to spread those spells," said Julian. "The ones that Malcolm helped with, that cancel out Shadowhunter magic." "I mean your magic is angelic in its nature," said Magnus. "It comes from light, from energy and life. The opposite of that is Sheol, Hell, whatever you want to call it. The absence of light and life. Of any kind of hope." He coughed. "When the Council voted for the Cold Peace, they were voting for a time that never existed. Just as the Cohort wishes everything to return to a lost Golden Age when Shadowhunters walked the world like gods and Downworlders and mundanes bowed before them." Everyone stared at him. This was a Magnus Bane people rarely saw, Julian thought. A Magnus whose good cheer and casual optimism had deserted him. A Magnus who was remembering the darkness of all he had seen over the centuries: the death and the loss; the same Magnus Julian had seen in the Hall of Accords when he was twelve, begging the Council in vain not to pass the Cold Peace, knowing that they would. "The King wants the same. To unite two kingdoms that have always been separate but in his mind were one land once. We must stop the King, but in a way he is only doing what the Cohort would do. What we have to hope the Clave would not do." "You mean," said Julian, "this is vengeance?" Magnus shrugged. "It is the whirlwind," he said. "Let us hope we can stop it." <|title|>Chapter 26: Walk in Shadow <|startofchapter|>Emma sat on Cristina's bed, brushing her friend's hair. She was beginning to understand why her mother had loved brushing her hair so much when she was a little girl: There was something oddly soothing about the smooth dark locks slipping through her fingers, the repetitive motion of the brush. It soothed the ache in her head, her chest. The one that felt not just her own pain, but Julian's. She knew how much he hated saying good-bye to Tavvy, even if it was for Tavvy's own good, and she felt a hollowness inside herself where Julian was parting from his smallest brother now. Being with Cristina helped. Emma had spilled everything that happened in Cornwall while clucking over Cristina's wrist and rubbing a mundane cream called Savlon into the red mark from the binding rune. Cristina ouched and complained that it stung, and handed Emma the hairbrush and told her to do something actually useful. "So does anything help the binding?" said Emma. "Like if Mark came in here and lay down directly on top of you, would the pain go away?" "Yes," Cristina said, sounding a bit muffled. "Well, it's very inconsiderate of him not to, if you ask me." Cristina gave a little wail that sounded like "Kieran." "Right, Mark has to pretend he still cares about Kieran. I guess lying on top of you wouldn't do much for that." "He does care about Kieran," Cristina said. "It's just--I think he cares about me, too." She half-turned to look at Emma. Her eyes were big and dark and worried. "I danced with him. With Mark. And we kissed." "That's good! That is good, right?" "It was, but then Kieran came in--" "What?" "But he wasn't angry, he just told Mark that he should dance better, and he danced with me. It was like dancing with fire." "Whoa, sexy weirdness," said Emma. "This may be more sexy weirdness than I can handle." "It is not weird!" "It is," said Emma. "You are headed for a faerie threesome. Or some kind of war." "Emma!" "Hot faerie threesome," said Emma cheerfully. "I can say I knew you when." Cristina groaned. "Fine. What about you and Julian? Do you have a plan, after what happened in Cornwall?" Emma sighed and put the hairbrush down. It was a lovely old silver-backed Victorian object. She wondered if it had been in the room when Cristina got here or if she'd found it somewhere else in the Institute. Already Cristina's London room bore signs of her personality --pictures had been cleaned and straightened, she'd found a colorful coverlet for her bed somewhere, and her balisong hung on a new hook by the fireplace. Emma began to braid Cristina's hair, plaiting the thick strands between her fingers. "We don't have a plan," she said. "It's always the same thing--we're together and we feel like we're invincible. And then we start to realize it's still all the same choices and they're all bad ones." Cristina looked troubled. "It is always the same choices, isn't it? Separation from each other or ceasing to be Shadowhunters." Emma had finished the braid. She leaned her chin on Cristina's shoulder, thinking about what Julian had learned from the Seelie Queen. The terrifying possibility of ending all parabatai bonds. But it was too horrible a thing to even voice aloud. "I used to think it would help, physical distance from Julian," she said. "But now I don't think it would. Nothing else has. I think no matter where I went, or for how long, I would always feel like this." "Some loves are strong, like cords. They bind you," Cristina said. "The Bible says love is as strong as death. I believe that." Emma scooted around to peer closer into her friend's face. "Cristina," she said. "There's something else going on, isn't there? Something about Diego, or Jaime?" Cristina looked down. "I can't say." "Let me help you," Emma said. "You're always so strong for everyone else. Let me be strong for you." There was a knock on the door. They both looked up in surprise. Mark, Emma thought. There was something about the look on Cristina's face. It must be Mark. But it was Kieran. Emma froze in surprise. Though she'd grown somewhat used to Kieran being around, he still made the fine hairs on Emma's arms rise with tension. It wasn't that she blamed him, specifically, for the injuries she'd suffered at Iarlath's hands. But the sight of him still brought it back to her, all of it: the hot sun, the sound of the whip, the copper scent of blood. It was true that he looked enormously different now. His black hair was a little wilder, more untidy, but otherwise he cut an incongruously human figure in his jeans. The wild hair hid the tops of his pointed ears, though his black and silver eyes were still startling. He gave a small, courtly bow. "My ladies." Cristina looked puzzled. Clearly she hadn't expected this visit either. "I came to speak with Cristina, if she will permit it," Kieran added. "Go ahead, then," Emma said. "Speak." "I think he wishes to speak to me alone," said Cristina, in a whisper. "Yes," said Kieran. "That is my request." Cristina looked at Emma. "I'll see you in the morning, then?" Humph, Emma thought. She'd missed Cristina, and now a brash faerie princeling was kicking her out of her friend's room. Kieran barely spared her a glance as she climbed off the bed and headed to the door. As she passed Kieran on her way out, Emma paused, her shoulder almost touching his. "If you do anything to hurt or upset her," she said, in a voice low enough that she doubted Cristina could hear it, "I will pull off your ears and turn them into lock picks. Get it?" Kieran glanced at her with his night-sky eyes, unreadable as clouds. "No," he said. "Let me spell it out," Emma said sharply. "I love her. Don't mess around with her." Kieran put his long, delicate hands in his pockets. He looked absolutely unnatural in his modern clothes. It was like seeing Alexander the Great in a biker jacket and leather pants. "She is easy to love." Emma looked at him in surprise. It hadn't been what she'd expected him to say at all. Easy to love. Nene had behaved as if the concept was bizarre. But then what did the Fair Folk know about love, anyway? "Would you like to sit down?" Cristina inquired. Then she wondered if she was turning into her mother, who had always claimed that the first thing one did with a guest was offer them a seat. Even if they are a murderer ? Cristina had asked. Yes, even murderers, her mother had insisted. If you didn't want to offer a murderer a seat, you shouldn't have invited him in the first place. "No," Kieran said. He moved across the room, hands in his pockets, his body language restless. Not unlike Mark's, Cristina thought. They both moved as if they had energy trapped beneath their skin. She wondered what it would be like to contain so much movement, and yet be forced to stay still. "My lady," he said. "Because of what I swore to you in the Seelie Court, there is a bond between us. I think you have felt its force." Cristina nodded. It wasn't the enchanted bond she had with Mark. But it was there anyway, a shimmering energy when they danced, when they spoke. "I think that force can help us do something together I could not do alone." Kieran came closer to the bed, drawing his hand out of his pocket. Something glimmered in his palm. He held it out to Cristina, and she saw the acorn there that Mark had used earlier, to summon Gwyn. It looked slightly dented, but it was whole, as if it had been sealed back together after breaking open. "You want to summon Gwyn again?" Cristina shook her head. Her hair fell completely out of its unfastened braid, spilling down her back. She saw Kieran glance at it. "No. He won't interfere again. You want to speak to someone else in Faerie. Your brother?" "As I thought." He inclined his head slightly. "You guess my intentions exactly." "And you can do it? The acorn won't just call Gwyn?" "The magic is a fairly simple one. Remember, you are not of the blood than can cast spells, but I am. It should bring a Projection of my brother to us. I will ask him of our father's plans. I shall ask him as well if he can stop the Riders." Cristina was astonished. "Can anyone stop the Riders?" "They are servants of the Court, and under its command." "Why are you telling me this?" Cristina asked. "Because to summon my brother, I must reach out with my mind into Faerie," said Kieran. "And it would be safer, should I wish to keep my mind intact, for me to have a connection here in the world. Something--someone--to keep me anchored while I seek my brother." Cristina slid off the bed. Standing straight, she was only a little shorter than Kieran. Fler eyes were level with his mouth. "Why me? Why not Mark?" "I have asked enough of Mark," he said. "Perhaps," she said, "but even if that is true, I do not think it is the whole truth." "Few of us are lucky enough ever to know the whole truth of anything." She knew Kieran was young, but there was something ancient in his eyes when he spoke. "Will you put your hand in mine?" She gave him the hand whose wrist bore the red mark of her bond with Mark. It seemed fitting, somehow. His fingers closed around hers, cool and dry, light as the touch of a leaf. With his other hand, Kieran dashed the golden acorn against the wall beside the fireplace mantel. For a moment, there was silence. Cristina could hear his ragged breathing. It seemed strange for a faerie--everything they did was at such a remove from ordinary human emotion, it was odd to hear Kieran gasp. But then she remembered his arms around her, the uneven thud of his heart. They were flesh and blood after all, weren't they? Bone and muscle, just as Shadowhunters were. And the flame of angelic blood burned in them, too. Darkness spread across the wall like a stain. Cristina sucked in her breath, and Kieran's hand tightened on hers. The darkness moved and shivered, trembled and re-formed. Light danced within it, and Cristina could see the multicolored night sky of Faerie. And within the shadow, a darker shadow. A man, wrapped in a dark cloak. As the darkness lightened, Cristina saw his grin before she saw anything else, and her heart seemed to stop. It was a grin of bones set within a skeletal half face, beautiful on one side, deathly on the other. The cloak that wrapped him was ink-black and bore the insignia of a broken crown. He stood straight and broad, grinning his lopsided grin down at Kieran. They had not summoned Adaon at all. It was the Unseelie King. "No. NO!" Tavvy wept, his face buried in Julian's shoulder. He'd taken the news that he was going to Idris with Alec, Max, and Rafe worse than Mark had expected. Did all children cry like this, like everything in the world was ruined and their hearts were broken, even at the news of a short parting? Not that Mark blamed Tavvy, of course. It was only that he felt as if his own heart was being shredded into pieces inside his chest as he watched Julian walk up and down the room, holding his small brother in his arms as Tavvy sobbed and pounded his back. "Tavs," Julian said in his gentle voice, the voice Mark could hardly reconcile with the boy who had faced down the Unseelie King in his own Court with a knife to a prince's throat. "It's only going to be a day, two days at most. You'll get to see the canals in Alicante, the Gard...." "You keep leaving," Tavvy choked against his brother's shirtfront. "You can't leave again." Julian sighed. He dipped his chin, rubbing his cheek against his brother's unruly curls. Over Tavvy's head, his eyes met Mark's. There was no blame in them, and no self-pity, only a terrible sadness. Yet Mark felt as if guilt were crushing his rib cage. If only were wasted words, Kieran had once said, when Mark had speculated on whether the two of them would ever have met if they had never joined the Hunt. But he couldn't stop the flood of if onlys now: if only he had been able to stay with his family, if only Julian hadn't needed to be mother and father and brother to all the younger ones, if only Tavvy hadn't grown up in the shadow of death and loss. Perhaps then, every parting would not feel like the last one. "It's not your fault," said Magnus, who had appeared noiselessly at Mark's side. "You can't help the past. We grow up with losses, all of us except the supremely lucky." "I cannot help wishing my brother had been one of the supremely lucky," said Mark. "You can understand." Magnus glanced toward Jules and Tavvy. The little boy had cried himself out and was clinging to his older brother, his face mashed against Julian's shoulder. His small shoulders were slumped in exhaustion. "Which brother?" "Both of them," said Mark. Magnus reached out and, with curious fingers, touched the glimmering arrowhead slung around Mark's neck. "I know this material," he said. "This arrowhead once tipped the weapon of a soldier in the King's Guard of the Unseelie Court." Mark touched it--cool, cold, smooth under his fingers. Unyielding, like Kieran himself. "Kieran gave it to me." "It is precious," said Magnus. He turned as Alec called him, and let the pendant fall back against Mark's chest. Alec stood with Max in his arms and Rafe by his side, along with a small duffel bag of their things. It occurred to Mark that Alec was close to the same age Mark would have been if only he had never been kidnapped by the Hunt. He wondered if he would be as mature as Alec seemed, as self-collected, as able to take care of other people as well as himself. Magnus kissed Alec and ruffled his hair with infinite tenderness. He bent to kiss Max, too, and Rafe, and straightened up to begin to create the Portal. Light sparked from and between his fingers, and the air before him seemed to shimmer. Tavvy had sagged into a bundle of hopelessness against Julian's chest. Jules held him closer, the muscles in his arms tensing, and murmured soothing words. Mark wanted to go over to them but couldn't seem to make his feet move. They seemed, even in their unhappiness, a perfect unit who needed no one else. The melancholy thought vanished a moment later as pain shot up Mark's arm. He grabbed at his wrist, his fingers encountering agonizing soreness, the slickness of blood. Something's wrong, he thought, and then, Cristina. He bolted. The Portal was growing and shimmering in the center of the room; through its half-formed door, Mark could see the outline of the demon towers as he darted by and into the corridor. Some sense in his blood told him he was getting closer to Cristina as he ran, but to his surprise, the pain in his wrist didn't fade. It pulsed again and again, like the warning beam from a lighthouse. Her door was closed. He set his shoulder against it and shoved without bothering to try the knob. It flew open and Mark half-fell inside. He choked, eyes stinging. The room smelled as if something inside it had been burning-- something organic, like dead leaves or rotted fruit. It was dark. His eyes adjusted quickly and he made out Cristina and Kieran, both standing by the foot of the bed. Cristina was clutching her balisong. A massive shadow loomed over them--no, not a shadow, Mark realized, moving closer. A Projection. A Projection of the King of the Unseelie Court. Both sides of his face seemed to gleam with unnatural humor, both the beautiful, kingly side, and the hideous, defleshed skull. "You thought to summon your brother?" the King sneered, his gaze on Kieran. "And you thought I would not feel you reaching into Faerie, searching for one of my own? You are a fool, Kieran, and always have been." "What have you done to Adaon?" Kieran's face was bloodless. "He knew nothing. He had no idea I planned to summon him." "Worry not about others," said the King. "Worry about your own life, Kieran Kingson." "I have been Kieran Hunter for a long time," said Kieran. The King's face darkened. "You should be Kieran Traitor," he said. "Kieran Betrayer. Kieran Kin-Slayer. All are better names for you." "He acted in self-defense," said Cristina sharply. "If he hadn't killed Erec, he would have been killed himself. And he acted to protect me." The King gave her a brief look of scorn. "And that in itself is a traitorous act, foolish girl," he said. "Placing the lives of Shadowhunters above the lives of your own people--what could be worse?" "Selling your son to the Wild Hunt because you worried that people liked him better than they liked you," said Mark. "That's worse." Cristina and Kieran looked at him in astonishment; it was clear they hadn't heard him come in. The King, though, evinced no surprise. "Mark Blackthorn," he said. "Even in his choice of lovers, my son gravitates to the enemies of his people. What does that say about him?" "That he knows better than you who his people are?" Mark said. Very deliberately, he turned his back on the King. It would have been a hanging offense in the Court. "We must get rid of him," he said, in a low voice, to Kieran and Cristina. "Should I get Magnus?" "He is only a Projection," Kieran said. His face was drawn. "He cannot hurt us. Nor can he remain forever. It is an effort for him, I think." "Do not turn your back on me!" the King roared. "Do you think I do not know your plans, Kieran? Do you think I do not know you plan to stand up and betray me before the Council of Nephilim?" Kieran turned his face away, as if he couldn't bear to look at his father. "Then cease to do what I know you are doing," he said, in a shaking voice. "Parlay with the Nephilim. Do not make war on them." "There is no parlay with those who can lie," snarled the King. "And have done, and will do again. They will lie and spill the blood of our people. And once they are done with you, do you think they will let you live? Treat you like one of them?" "They have treated me better than my own father has." Kieran raised his chin. "Have they?" The King's eyes were dark and empty. "I took some memories from you, Kieran, when you came to my Court. Shall I give them back?" Kieran looked confused. "What use could you possibly have for my memories?" "Some of us would know our enemies," said the King. "Kieran," Mark said. The look in the King's eyes made fear roil in the pit of his stomach. "Do not listen. He seeks to hurt you." "And what do you seek?" the King demanded, turning toward Mark. Only the fact that Mark could see through him, could see the outline of Cristina's bed, her wardrobe, through the transparent frame of his body, kept him from darting toward the fireplace poker and swinging it at the King. If only... If only the King had been any sort of father, if only he hadn't thrown his son to the Hunt like a bone to a pack of hungry wolves, if only he hadn't sat complacently by while Erec tortured Kieran... How different would Kieran be? How much less afraid of losing love, how much less determined to hold on to it at all costs, even if it meant trapping Mark in the Hunt with him? The King's lip curled, as if he could read Mark's thoughts. "When I looked into my son's memories," he said, "I saw you, Blackthorn. Lady Nerissa's son." His smile was malignant. "Your mother died of sorrow when your father left her. My son's thoughts were half of you, of the loss of you. Mark, Mark, Mark. I wonder what it is in your bloodline that has the power to enchant our people and make fools of them?" A small line had appeared between Kieran's brows. The loss of you. Kieran didn't remember losing Mark. The cold fear in Mark's stomach had spread to his veins. "Those who cannot love do not understand it," said Cristina. She turned toward Kieran. "We will protect you," she said. "We won't let him harm you for testifying at the Council." "Lies," said the King. "Well-intentioned, perhaps, but still lies. If you testify, Kieran, there will be no place on this earth or in Faerie where you will be safe from me and from my warriors. I will hunt you forever, and when I find you, you will wish you had died for what you did to Iarlath, to Erec. There is no torment you can imagine that I will not visit on you." Kieran swallowed hard, but his voice was steady. "Pain is just pain." "Oh," said his father, "there is all manner of pain, little dark one." He did not move or make any gesture the way warlocks did when they cast spells, but Mark felt an increase in the weight of the atmosphere in the room, as if the air pressure had risen. Kieran gasped and reeled back as if he'd been shot. He hit the bed, grasping at the footboard to keep himself from sliding to the floor. His hair fell over his eyes, changing from blue to black to white. "Mark?" He raised his face slowly. "I remember. I remember." "Kieran," Mark whispered. "I told Gwyn you had betrayed a law of Faerie," said Kieran. "I thought they would only bring you back to the Hunt." "Instead they punished my family," said Mark. He knew Kieran hadn't meant it to happen, hadn't anticipated it. But the words still hurt to say. "That's why you weren't wearing your elf-bolt." Kieran's eyes fixed on a point below Mark's chin. "You did not want me. You turned me away. You hated me. You must hate me now." "I didn't hate you," Mark said. "Kier--" "Listen to him," murmured the King. "Listen to him lie." "Then why?" Kieran said. He backed away from Mark, just a step. "Why did you lie to me?" "Consider it, child," said the King. He looked as if he were enjoying himself. "What did they want from you?" Kieran breathed in hard. "Testimony," he said. "Witnessing in front of the Council. You-- you planned this, Mark? This deception? Does everyone in the Institute know? Yes, they must. They must." His hair had gone black as oil. "And the Queen knows, too, I suppose. She planned to make a fool of me, with you?" The agony on his face was too much; Mark couldn't look at it, at Kieran. It was Cristina who spoke for him. "Kieran, no," she said. "It wasn't like that--" "And you knew?" Kieran turned a look on her that was hardly less betrayed than the one he'd turned on Mark. "You knew as well?" The King laughed. Rage went through Mark then, a blinding fury, and he seized up the poker from the fireplace. The King continued laughing as he stalked toward him, raised the poker, and swung it-- It slammed against the golden acorn where it lay on the hearth before the fireplace, shattering it into powder. The King's laughter cut off abruptly; he turned a look of pure hatred on Mark and vanished. "Why did you do that?" Kieran demanded. "Were you afraid of what else he'd tell me?" Mark threw the poker against the grate with a loud clang. "He gave you back your memories, didn't he?" he said. "Thenyou know everything." "Not everything," said Kieran, and his voice cracked and broke; Mark thought of him hanging in the thorn manacles at the Unseelie Court, and how the same despair showed in his eyes now. "I don't know how you planned this, when you decided you would lie to me to get me to do what you wanted. I don't know how much it sickened you every time you had to touch me, to pretend to want me. I don't know when you planned to tell me the truth. After I testified? Did you plan to mock me and laugh at me before all the Council, or wait until we were alone? Did you tell everyone what a monster I am, how selfish and how heartless--" "You are not a monster, Kieran," Mark interrupted. "There is nothing wrong with your heart." There was only hurt in Kieran's eyes as he regarded Mark across the small space that separated them. "That cannot be true," he said, "for you were my heart." "Stop." It was Cristina, her voice small and worried, but firm. "Let Mark explain to you--" "I am done with human explanations," said Kieran, and stalked from the room, slamming the door behind him. The last of the shimmering Portal disappeared. Julian and Magnus stood, almost shoulder to shoulder, watching Alec and the children until they vanished. With a sigh, Magnus tossed the end of his scarf over his shoulder and stalked across the room to fill a glass from the decanter of wine that rested dustily on a table by the window. It was nearly dark outside, the sky over London the color of pansy petals. "Do you want some?" he asked Julian, recapping the decanter. "I should probably stay sober." "Suit yourself." Magnus picked up his wineglass and examined it; the light shining through it turned the liquid ruby red. "Why are you helping us so much?" Julian asked. "I mean, I know we're a likable family, but no one's that likable." "No," Magnus agreed, with a slight smile. "No one is." "Then?" Magnus took a sip of the wine and shrugged. "Jace and Clary asked me to," he said, "and Jace is Alec's parabatai, and I have always had a fatherly feeling toward Clary. They're my friends. And there is little I wouldn't do for my friends." "Is that really all of it?" "You might remind me of someone." "Me?" Julian was surprised. People rarely said that to him. "Who do I remind you of?" Magnus shook his head without answering. "Years ago," he said, "I had a recurring dream, about a city drowned in blood. Towers made of bone and blood running in the streets like water. I thought later that it was about the Dark War, and indeed the dream vanished in the years after the war was fought." He drained his glass and set it down. "But lately I've been dreaming it again. I can't help but think something is coming." "You warned them," said Julian. "The Council. The day they decided to exile Helen and abandon Mark. The day they decided on the Cold Peace. You told them what the consequences would be." He leaned against the wall. "I was only twelve, but I remember it. You said, 'The Fair Folk have long hated the Nephilim for their harshness. Show them something other than harshness, and you will receive something other than hate in return.' But they didn't listen to you, did they?" "They wanted their revenge, the Council," said Magnus. "They didn't see how revenge begets more revenge. 'For they sow the wind, and they shall reap the whirlwind.'" "From the Bible," said Julian. He had not grown up around Uncle Arthur without learning more classic quotes than he'd ever know what to do with. "But then there's a difference between revenge and vengeance," he added. "Between punishing the guilty, and punishing at random. 'Justly we rid the earth of human fiends, who carry hell for pattern in their souls.'" "I suppose one can find a quote to justify anything," Magnus said. "Look--I don't tattle to the Clave, whatever the warlocks of the Shadow Market might think to the contrary. But I've known parabatai, dozens of them, what they're supposed to be like, and you and Emma are different. I can't imagine that if it hadn't been for the chaos of the Dark War they would even have allowed you to go through with it." "And now, because of a ceremony that was supposed to bind us forever, we have to figure out how to separate," Julian said bitterly. "We both know it. But with the Riders out there--" "Yes," said Magnus. "You are forced together for the moment." Julian exhaled through his teeth. "Just confirm something for me," he said. "There's no such thing as a spell that cancels out love?" "There are a few temporary charms," said Magnus. "They don't last forever. Real love and the complexities of the human heart and brain are still beyond the tinkering of most magic. Maybe an angel or a Greater Demon..." "So Raziel could do it," said Julian. "I wouldn't hold your breath," said Magnus. "Have you really already looked this up? Spells to cancel out love?" Julian nodded. "You are ruthless," said Magnus. "Even with yourself." "I thought Emma didn't love me anymore," said Julian. "And she thought the same about me. Now we know the truth. It's not just that it's forbidden by the Clave. It's cursed." Magnus winced. "I wondered if you knew about that." Julian felt cold all over. No chance it was some kind of mistake of Jem's, then. Not that he'd really thought it might be. "Jem told Emma. But he didn't say exactly how it worked. What would happen." There was a slight tremor in Magnus's hand as he passed it over his eyes. "Look up the story of Silas Pangborn and Eloisa Ravenscar. There are other stories too, though the Silent Brothers do their best to keep it quiet." His cat's eyes were bloodshot. "You go mad yourself, first," he said. "You become unrecognizable as a human being. And after you become a monster, you are no longer able to tell friend from enemy. As your family run toward you to save you, you will rip the hearts from their chests." Julian felt as if he were going to throw up. "That--I'd never hurt my family." "You won't know who they are," said Magnus. "You won't know love from hate. And you'll destroy what's around you, not because you want to, any more than a crashing wave wants to shatter the rocks it breaks on. You'll do it because you won't know not to." He looked at Julian with an ancient sympathy. "It doesn't matter if your intentions are good or bad. It doesn't matter that love is a positive force. Magic doesn't take note of small human concerns." "I know," Julian said. "But what can we do? I can't become a mundane or a Downworlder and leave my family. It would kill me and them. And not being a Shadowhunter anymore would be like suicide for Emma." "There is exile," Magnus said. His gaze was fathomless. "You would still be Shadowhunters, but you'd be stripped of some of your magic. That's what exile means. That's the punishment. And because parabatai magic is some of the most precious and most ingrained in what you are, exile deadens its power. All the things the curse intensifies--the power your runes give each other, the ability to feel what the other is feeling or know if they're hurt--exile takes those away. If I understand magic, and I know I do, then that means exile would slow the curse down immeasurably." "And exile would also take me away from the children," said Julian, in despair. "I might never see them again. I might as well become a mundane. At least then I could try to sneak around and maybe watch them from a distance." Bitterness corroded his voice. "The terms of exile are determined by the Inquisitor and the Clave. It would be totally out of our control." "Not necessarily," said Magnus. Julian looked at him sharply. "I think you'd better tell me what you mean." "That you have only one choice. And you won't like it." Magnus paused, as if waiting for Julian to refuse to hear it, but Julian said nothing at all. "All right," said Magnus. "When you get to Alicante, tell the Inquisitor everything." Something cool touched his temple, brushed back his hair. Shadows surrounded Kit, shadows in which he saw faces familiar and unfamiliar: the face of a woman with pale hair, her mouth forming the words of a song; his father's face, the angry countenance of Barnabas Hale, Ty looking at him through eyelashes as thick and black as the soot covering the London streets in a Dickens novel. "Kit." The cool touch became a tap. His eyelids fluttered, and there was the ceiling of the infirmary in the London Institute. He recognized the strange tree-shaped burn on the plastered wall, the view of rooftops through the window, the fan that spun its lazy blades over his head. And hovering over him, a pair of anxious blue-green eyes. Livvy, her long brown hair spilling down in tangled curls. She exhaled a relieved sigh as he frowned. "Sorry," she said. "Magnus said to shake you awake every few hours or so, to make sure your concussion doesn't get worse." "Concussion?" Kit remembered the rooftop, the rain, Gwyn and Diana, the sky full of clouds sliding up and away as he fell. "How did I wind up with a concussion? I was fine." "It happens, apparently," she said. "People get hit on the head; they don't realize it's serious until they pass out." "Ty?" he said. He started to sit up, which was a mistake. His skull ached as if someone had taken a bludgeon to it. Bits and pieces of memory flashed against the backs of his eyes: the faeries in their terrifying bronze armor. The concrete platform by the river. The certainty that they were going to die. "Here." Her hand curved around the back of his neck, supporting him. The rim of something cold clinked against his teeth. "Drink this." Kit swallowed. Darkness came down, and the pain went away with it. He heard the singing again, down in the deepest part of everything he'd ever forgotten. The story that I love you, it has no end. When he opened his eyes again, the candle by his bed had guttered. There was light, though, in the room--Ty sat by the side of his bed, a witchlight in his hand, looking up at the rotating blades of the fan. Kit coughed and sat up. This time it hurt a little bit less. His throat felt like sandpaper. "Water," he said. Ty drew his gaze away from the fan blades. Kit had noticed before that he liked to look at them, as if their graceful motion pleased him. Ty found the water pitcher and a glass, and handed it to Kit. "Do you want more water?" Ty asked, when Kit's thirst had emptied the pitcher. He'd changed clothes since Kit had seen him last. More of the odd old-fashioned stuff from the storage room. Pinstriped shirt, black pants. He looked like he ought to be in an old advertisement. Kit shook his head. He held tightly to the glass in his hand. A strange sense of unreality had settled over him--here he was, Kit Rook, in an Institute, having gotten his head bashed in by large faeries for defending Nephilim. His father would have been ashamed. But Kit felt nothing but a sense of rightness. A sense that the piece that had always been missing from his life, that had made him anxious and uneasy, had been returned to him by chance and fate. "Why did you do it?" Ty said. Kit propped himself up. "Why'd I do what?" "That time I came out of the magic shop and you and Livvy were arguing." Ty's gray gaze rested on a point around Kit's collarbone. "It was about me, wasn't it?" "How did you know we were arguing?" Kit said. "Did you hear us?" Ty shook his head. "I know Livvy," he said. "I know when she's angry. I know the things she does. She's my twin. I don't know those things about anyone else, but I know them about her." He shrugged. "The argument was about me, wasn't it?" Kit nodded. "Everyone always tries to protect me," said Ty. "Julian tries to protect me from everything. Livvy tries to protect me from being disappointed. She didn't want me to know that you might leave, but I've always known it. Jules and Livvy, they have a hard time imagining that I've grown up. That I might understand that some things are temporary." "You mean me," Kit said. "That I'm temporary." "It's your choice to stay or leave," said Ty. "In Limehouse, I thought maybe it would be leaving." "But what about you?" said Kit. "I thought you were going to the Scholomance. And I could never go there. I don't even have basic training." Kit set his water glass down. Ty immediately picked it up and began turning it in his hands. It was made of milky glass, rough on the outside, and he seemed to like the texture. Ty was silent, and in that silence, Kit thought of Ty's headphones, the music in his ears, the whispered words, the way he touched things with such total concentration: smooth stones, rough glass, silk and leather and textured linen. There were people in the world, he knew, who thought human beings like Ty did those things for no reason--because they were inexplicable. Broken. Kit felt a wash of rage go through him. How could they not understand everything Ty did had a reason? If an ambulance siren blared in your ears, you covered them. If something hit you, you doubled up to protect yourself from hurt. But not everyone felt and heard exactly the same way. Ty heard everything twice as loud and fast as everyone else. The headphones and the music, Kit sensed, were a buffer: They deadened not just other noises, but also feelings that would otherwise be too intense. They protected him from hurt. He couldn't help but wonder what it would be like to live so intensely, to feel things so much, to have the world sway into and out of too-bright colors and too-bright noises. When every sound and feeling was jacked up to eleven, it only made sense to calm yourself by concentrating all your energy on something small that you could master--a mass of pipe cleaners to unravel, the pebbled surface of a glass between your fingers. "I don't want to tell you not to go to the Scholomance if it's what you want," said Kit. "But I would just say that it isn't always about people trying to protect you, or knowing what's best for you, or thinking they do. Sometimes they just know they'd miss you." "Livvy would miss me--" "Your whole family would miss you," said Kit, "and I would miss you." It was a bit like stepping off a cliff, far scarier than any con Kit had ever run for his dad, any Downworlder or demon he'd ever met. Ty looked up in surprise, forgetting the glass in his hands. He was blushing. It was very visible against his pale skin. "You would?" "Yeah," said Kit, "but like I said, I don't want to stop you from going if you want to--" "I don't," Ty said. "I changed my mind." He set the glass down. "Not because of you. Because the Scholomance appears to be full of assholes." Kit burst out laughing. Ty looked even more astonished than he had when Kit had said he'd miss him. But after a second, he started to laugh too. They were both laughing, Kit doubled up over the blankets, when Magnus came into the room. He looked at the two of them and shook his head. "Bedlam," he said, and went over to the counter where the glass tubes and funnels had been set up. He gave them a pleased look. "Not that anyone here probably cares," he said, "but the antidote to the binding spell is ready. We should have no problem leaving for Idris tomorrow." Cristina felt as if a tornado had blown through the room. She set her balisong down on the mantel and turned to Mark. He was leaning against the wall, his eyes wide but not focused on anything. She remembered an old book she had read when she was a girl. There had been a boy in it whose eyes had been two different colors, a knight in the Crusades. One eye for God, the book had said, and one for the devil. A boy who had been split down the middle, part good and part evil. Just as Mark was split between faerie and Nephilim. She could see the battle raging in him now, though all his anger was for himself. "Mark," she began. "It is not--" "Don't say it's not my fault," he said tonelessly. "I couldn't stand it, Cristina." "It is not only your fault," said Cristina. "We all knew. It is all our fault. It was not the right thing to do, but we had very few choices. And Kieran did wrong you." "I still shouldn't have lied to him." A ragged dark crack across the plaster of Cristina's wall, bulging through the paint, was the only sign of what had happened. That, and the crushed golden acorn on the hearth. "I am only saying that if you can forgive him, you should forgive yourself as well," she said. "Can you come here?" Mark said, in a strangled sort of voice. Mark had his eyes closed and was clenching and unclenching his hands. She nearly tripped getting to him across the room. He seemed to sense her approach; without opening his eyes, he reached for her and caught her hand in a bone-crushing grip. Cristina glanced down. He held her hand so tightly it should have hurt, but all she saw was the red marks around both of their wrists. This close together, they had faded to almost nothing. She felt again what she had felt that night in the ballroom, as if the binding spell amplified their nearness into something else, a thing that dragged her mind back to that hill in Faerie, the memory of being wrapped up in Mark. Mark's mouth found hers. She heard him groan: He was kissing her hard and desperately; her body felt as if fire was pouring through it, turning her light as ashes. Yet she could not forget Kieran kissing Mark in front of her, forceful and deliberate. It seemed she could not think of Mark now without thinking of Kieran, too. Could not see blue and gold eyes without seeing black and silver. "Mark." She spoke against his lips. His hands were on her, stirring her blood to soft heat. "This is not the right way to make yourself forget." He drew away from her. "I want to hold you," he said. "I want it very badly." He let go of her slowly, as if the motion were an effort. "But it would not be fair. Not to you or Kieran or myself. Not now." Cristina touched the back of his hand. "You must go to Kieran and make things right between you. He is too important a part of you, Mark." "You heard what the King said." Mark let his head fall back against the wall. "He'll kill Kieran for testifying. He'll hunt him forever. That's our doing." "He agreed to it--" "Without knowing the truth! He agreed to it because he thought he loved me and I loved him--" "Isn't that true?" Cristina said. "And even if it wasn't, he didn't just forget that you fought. He forgot what he did. He forgot what he owes. He forgot his own guilt. And that is part of why he is so angry. Not at you, but at himself." Mark's hand tightened on hers. "We owe each other now, Kieran and I," he said. "I have endangered him. The Unseelie King knows he plans to testify. He's sworn to hunt Kieran. Cristina, what do we do?" "We try to keep him safe," Cristina said. "Whether he testifies or not, the King won't forgive him. We need to find a place Kieran will be protected." Her chin jerked up as realization hit her. "I know exactly where. Mark, we must--" There was a knock on the door. They stepped away from each other as it swung open; both of them had been expecting Kieran, and Mark's disappointment when it turned out to be Magnus was clear. Magnus was carrying two etched metal flasks and raised an eyebrow when he saw Mark's expression. "I don't know who you were waiting for, and I'm sorry I'm not it," he said dryly. "But the antidote is ready." Cristina had expected a thrill of relief to go through her. Instead she felt nothing. She touched her left hand to her sore wrist and glanced toward Mark, who was staring at the floor. "Don't rush to thank me or anything," said Magnus, handing them each a flask. "Profuse expressions of gratitude only embarrass me, though cash gifts are always welcome." "Thank you, Magnus," Cristina said, blushing. She unscrewed the flask: A dark and bitter scent wafted from it, like the smell of pulque, a drink that Cristina had never liked. Magnus held up a hand. "Wait until you're in separate rooms to drink it," he said. "In fact, you should spend at least a few hours apart so that the spell can settle properly. All the effects should be gone by tomorrow." "Thank you," said Mark, and headed for the door. He paused there and looked back at Cristina. "I agree with you," he said to her. "About Kieran. If there's anything you can do to guarantee his safety--do it." He was gone noiselessly, with cat-soft footsteps. Magnus glanced at the cracked wall, and then at Cristina. "Do I want to know?" he asked. Cristina sighed. "Can a fire-message get outside the wards you put up?" Magnus stared at the wall again, shook his head, and said, "You'd better give it to me. I'll get it sent." She hesitated. "I won't read it, either," he added irritably. "I promise." Cristina set down her flask, found paper, pen, and stele, and scribbled a message with a rune-signature before folding it and handing it to Magnus, who gave a low whistle when he saw the name of the recipient across the top. "Are you sure?" She nodded with a resolution she didn't feel. "Absolutely." <|title|>Chapter 27: Three Angels Only <|startofchapter|>"Emma." Julian rapped on her door with the back of his knuckles. At least he was fairly sure it was Emma's door. He'd never been inside her room at the London Institute. "Emma, are you awake? I know it's late." He heard her call for him to come in, her voice muffled through the thick wooden door. Inside, the room was much like his own, small with heavy blocks of Victorian-looking furniture. The bed was a solid four-poster with silk hangings. Emma was lying on the covers, wearing an overwashed T-shirt and pajama bottoms. She rolled onto her side and grinned at him. An overwhelming feeling of love hit him like a punch to the chest. Her hair was tied messily back and she was lying on a rumpled blanket with a plate of pastries next to her, and he had to stop in the middle of the room for a moment and catch his breath. She waved a tart at him cheerily. "Banoffee," she said. "Want some?" He could have crossed the room in a few steps. Could have picked her up and swung her into his arms and held her. Could have told her how much he loved her. If they were any other couple, it would be that easy. But nothing for them would ever be easy. She was looking at him in puzzlement. "Is everything all right?" He nodded, a little surprised at his own feelings. Usually he kept better control over himself. Maybe it was the conversation he'd had with Magnus. Maybe it had given him hope. If there was one thing Julian's life had taught him, it was that nothing was more dangerous than hope. "Julian," she said, setting the tart down and brushing the crumbs off her hands. "Would you please say something?" He cleared his throat. "We need to talk." She groaned and flopped back against her pillows. "Okay, not that." Julian sat down at the foot of her bed as she cleared off her covers, setting aside the food and a few things she'd been looking at--he saw an old photograph of a girl carrying a blade that looked like Cortana, and another one of four boys in Edwardian clothes by the side of a river. When she was done, she brushed off her hands again and turned a set face to his. "How soon do we have to separate?" she said. Her voice was shaking a little. "As soon as the meeting is over in Alicante? What will we tell the kids?" "I talked to Magnus," Julian said. "He said we should go to the Inquisitor." Emma made an incredulous noise. "The Inquisitor? As in, the Council leader who enforces Laws?" "Pretty sure Magnus knows who the Inquisitor is," said Julian. "He's Alec's dad." "Did he mean it as a sort of threat? Like, either we turn ourselves in to Robert Lightwood or he does it for us? But Magnus wouldn't--I can't see him doing that. He's much too loyal." "That's not it," Julian said. "Magnus wants to help us. He remembers other parabatai like us and he--he pointed out that no parabatai have ever gone to the Clave for help." "Because it's the Clave's Law--!" "But that's not the problem," said Julian. "We could handle the Law. It's the curse, which is the reason the Law exists--even if the Clave doesn't know it. But we know it." Emma only looked at him. "Every other parabatai have feared the Law more than the curse," Julian said. "They've always either separated, left the Clave, or hidden what was happening to them until they were caught or the curse killed them. Magnus said we'd be the first, and that would count for something with Robert. And he pointed out something else, too. Robert was exiled, because he was in the Circle years ago. The exile temporarily suspended his bond with his parabatai. Magnus said Alec told him about it--that it cut their bond enough that Robert didn't even realize hi s parabatai was dead." "Exile?" Emma's voice shook. "Exile means the Clave sends you away--you have no choice about it--" "But the Inquisitor is the one who chooses terms of exile," said Julian. "Robert is the one who decided Aline could stay with Helen when she was exiled; the Clave was against it." "If one of us has to be exiled, it'll be me," said Emma. "I'll go be with Cristina in Mexico. You're indispensable to the children. I'm not." Her voice was firm, but her eyes were glimmering with tears. Julian sensed the same wave of desperate love he'd felt before threatening to overwhelm him and forced it back. "I hate the idea of being separated too," Julian said, running his hand over the blanket, the rough texture comforting against his fingers. "The way I love you is fundamental to me, Emma. It's who I am. No matter how far we are from each other." The glimmer in her eyes had become liquid. A tear spilled down her cheek. She didn't move to wipe it away. "Then--?" "Exile will deaden the bond," he said. He tried to keep his voice steady. There was still a part of him that hated the idea of not being Emma's parabatai, despite everything, and hated the thought of exile, too. "Magnus is sure of it. Exile will do something separation can't, Emma, because exile is deep Shadowhunter enchantment. The ceremony of exile lessens some of your Nephilim abilities, your magic, and having a parabatai is part of that magic. It means the curse will be postponed. It means we can have time--and I can stay with the kids. I'd have to leave them otherwise. The curse doesn't just hurt us, Emma, it hurts the people around us. I can't stay near the kids thinking I might be some kind of threat to them." She nodded slowly. "So if it gives us time, then what?" "Magnus has promised to bring everything he has to bear on figuring out how to break the bond or end the curse. One or the other." Emma raised her hand to rub at her wet cheek, and he saw the long scar on her forearm that had been there since he'd handed her Cortana in a room in Alicante, five years ago. How we have left our marks on each other, he thought. "I hate this," she whispered. "I hate the idea of being away from you and the kids." He wanted to take her hand, but held himself back. If he let himself touch her, he might crumble and fall apart and he had to stay strong and reasonable and hopeful. He was the one who'd listened to Magnus, who'd agreed to this. It was on him. "I hate it, too," he said. "If there was any way it could be me going into exile, I would do it, Emma. Look, we'll only agree to it if the terms are what we want--if the exile period is short, if you can live with Cristina, if the Inquisitor promises no dishonor will accrue to your family name." "Magnus really thinks Robert Lightwood is going to be that willing to help us? To basically let us dictate the terms of our exile?" "He really does," said Julian. "He didn't say why exactly--maybe because Robert was exiled himself once, or because his parabatai died." "But Robert doesn't know about the curse." "And he doesn't need to," said Julian. "Just being in love breaks the Law long before the curse is triggered. And the Law says we'll have to be separated or have our Marks stripped anyway. That's not good for the Clave. They're hurting for Shadowhunters, certainly ones as good as you. He'll want a solution that keeps you Nephilim pretty badly. And besides--we have leverage." "What leverage?" Julian drew in a long breath. "We know how to cut the bond. We've been acting like we don't, but we do." Emma went rigid all over. "Because we can't even consider the idea," she said. "It's not something we could ever do." "It still exists," Julian said. "We still know about it." Her hand shot out and grabbed the front of his shirt. Her grip was incredibly strong. "Julian," she said. "It would be an unforgivable sin to use whatever magic it is the Seelie Queen was talking about. We wouldn't just be hurting Jace and Alec, Clary and Simon. All the people we don't know that we'd be harming--destroying this thing that's as fundamental to them as how you love me and I love you--" "They are not us," Julian said. "This isn't just about you and me, this is about the children. About my family. Our family." "Jules." The dismay in her eyes was stark. "I've always known you'd do anything for the kids. We've always said we both would. But when we talk about anything, we still mean there are things we wouldn't do. Don't you know that?" Julian You scared me "Yes, I know that," he said, and she relaxed slightly. Her eyes were wide. He wanted to kiss her even more than he had before, partly because she was Emma and that meant she was good and honest and thoughtful. Ironic, really. "It's just a threat," he added. "Leverage. We wouldn't do it, but Robert doesn't need to know that." Emma let go of his shirt. "It's too much of a threat," she said. "Destroying parabatai as a thing that exists could rip the whole fabric of Nephilim apart." "We're not going to destroy anything." He took her face in his hands. Her skin was soft against his palms. "We're going to fix it all. We're going to be together. Exile will give us the time we need to find out how to break the bond. If it can be done the Seelie Queen's way, it can be done some other way. The curse was like a monster at our heels. This gives us breathing room." She kissed his palm. "You sound so sure." "I am sure," he said. "Emma, I am totally sure." He couldn't stand it any longer. He pulled her into his lap. She let her weight fall against his body, her face pressed to the crook of his neck. Her hand traced the collar of his T-shirt, just where his skin touched the cotton. "Do you know why I'm sure?" he whispered, kissing her temple, her cheek where it tasted like salt. "Because when this universe was born, when it blasted into existence in fire and glory, everything that would ever exist was created. Our souls are made of that fire and glory, of the atoms of it, the fragments of stars. Everyone's are, but I believe ours, yours and mine, are made from the dust of the same star. That's why we've always been drawn to each other like magnets, all our lives. All the pieces of us belong together." He held her tighter. "Your name, Emma, means universe, you know," he said. "Doesn't that prove I'm right?" She gave a sobbing half-laugh, lifted her face, and kissed him hard. His body jumped as if he'd touched an electrified wire. His mind went blank, just the sound of their breathing in his ears and the feel of her hands on his shoulders and the taste of her mouth. He couldn't stand it; holding her, he rolled sideways, taking her with him so they lay crossways on the coverlet. His hands moved under her oversize shirt, cupped her waist, thumbs tracing the angles of her hips. They were still kissing. He felt raw, cut open, every nerve a bleeding edge of desire. He licked sugar off her lips and she moaned. Everything about the fact that this was forbidden was wrong, he thought. Nobody belonged together more than he and Emma did. He almost felt as if their connection scorched its way through their parabatai Marks, winding them closer, amplifying every sensation. Just his hand tangling in the soft strands of her hair was enough to make his bones feel as if they were turning to liquid, to fire. When she arched up against him he thought he might actually die. And then she drew away, taking a long and shuddering breath. She was shaking. "Julian-- we can't." He rolled away from her. It felt like ripping off a limb. His hands dug into the blanket, gripping hard enough to hurt. "Emma," he said. It was all he could say. "I want to," she said, raising herself up on an elbow. Her hair was a mess of golden tangles, her expression earnest. "You have to know I want to. But while we're still parabatai, we can't." "It won't make me love you any more or differently," he said, his voice hoarse. "I love you either way. I love you if we never touch." "I know. But it seems like tempting fate." She reached to stroke his face, his chest. "Your heart's beating so fast." "It always does," he said, "when it's you." He kissed her, a kiss that accepted that tonight, there would be no more than kisses. "Only you. No one but you." It was true. He had never desired anyone before Emma, and never anyone since. There had been times when he was younger that it had puzzled him--he was a teenager, he was supposed to be full of inchoate longings and wantings and yearnings, wasn't he? But he never wanted anyone, never fantasized or dreamed or longed at all. And then there had been one day on the beach, when Emma had been laughing next to him and she had reached up to undo her barrette, and her hair had spilled down over her fingers and against her back like liquid sunlight. His whole body had reacted. He remembered it even now, the driving pain as if something deadly had struck him. It had made him understand why the Greeks had believed love was an arrow that tore through your body and left a blazing trail of longing behind. In French, falling suddenly in love was the coup defoudre. The bolt of lightning. The fire in your veins, the destructive power of a thousand million volts. Julian hadn't fallen suddenly in love: He always had been in love. He had only just that moment realized it. And after that, he longed. Oh, how he longed. And wished for the time he'd thought he was missing something by not longing, because the longing was like a thousand cruel voices that whispered to him that he was a fool. It was only six months after their parabatai ceremony, and it had been the biggest mistake he'd ever made, and totally irrevocable. And every time he saw Emma after that it was like a knife in his chest, but a knife whose pain he welcomed. A blade whose hilt he held in his own hand, pressed against his own heart, and nothing and no one could have taken it away from him. "Sleep," he said. He gathered her in his arms and she curled up against him, closing her eyes. His Emma, his universe, his blade. "You see," Diana said. "It's exactly what we thought it was." The silver-black moon shone down on Brocelind Forest as Jia Penhallow stepped out of the blighted circle of ashy trees and burned grass. As she did, the seraph blade in her hand blazed with light, as if a switch had been flipped. She stepped back into the circle. The seraph blade went dark. "I sent photos to Kieran," said Diana, looking at the Consul's grim face. "They--Kieran said these were the same kind of circles of blight he has seen in the Unseelie Lands." Most of what Kieran had recently seen in the Unseelie Lands had been the inside of a cage. Jia shuddered. "It is awful to stand inside this circle," she said. "It feels as if the ground is made of ice and despair is in the very air." "These circles," Diana said. "They are in the places that Helen and Aline said were dark on their map, aren't they?" Jia didn't have to look. She nodded. "I had not wanted to bring my daughter into this." "If she and Helen can be present during the Council meeting, they can speak up as candidates for the Institute." Jia said nothing. "It is what Helen desperately wants," said Diana. "What they both want. The best place to be is not always the safest. No one is content in a prison." Jia cleared her throat. "The time it would take to have the Council clear the request-- Portals to Wrangel Island are tightly regulated--the meeting would be over--" "You leave that to me," Diana said. "In fact, the less you know, the better." Diana couldn't believe she had just said the less you know, the better to the Consul. Deciding she was unlikely to come up with a better exit line, she turned and strode from the clearing. Dru dreamed of underground tunnels split by roots like the bulging knuckles of a giant. She dreamed of a room of glittering weapons and a boy with green eyes. She woke to find the dim light of dawn illuminating her mantel, where a gold hunting dagger inscribed with roses pinned a note to the wood. For Drusilla: Thank you for all your help. Jaime. Sometime in the night Kit woke, the iratze softly burning on his arm. The infirmary was lit with warm yellow light, and outside the window he could see the rooftops of London, sturdy and Victorian under a waning moon. And he could hear music. Rolling onto his side, he saw that Ty was asleep on the bed next to Kit's, his headphones on, the faint sound of a symphony coming from them. A memory teased the edge of Kit's consciousness. Being very young, sick with the flu, feverish in the night, and someone sleeping by the side of his bed. His father? It must have been. Who else could it have been but his father, but certainty eluded him. No. He wouldn't think about it. It had been a part of his earlier life; he was someone now who had friends who would sleep by his bed if he was sick. For however long that lasted, he would appreciate it. The high doors of the Sanctuary were made of iron and carved with a symbol Cristina had known since birth, the four interconnected Cs of Clave, Council, Covenant, and Consul. The doors opened noiselessly at a push onto a large room. Her spine tightened as she stepped inside, remembering the Sanctuary in the Mexico City Institute. She had played there sometimes as a child, enjoying the vastness of the space, the silence, the smooth cold tiles. Every Institute had a Sanctuary. "Kieran?" she whispered, stepping inside. "Kieran, are you here?" The London Sanctuary dwarfed the Mexico City and Los Angeles ones in size and impressiveness. Like a vast treasure box of marble and stone, every surface seemed to gleam. There were no windows, for the protection of vampire guests: Light came from a number of witchlight torches. In the center of the room rose a fountain; in it stood a stone angel. Its eyes were open holes from which rivers of water poured like tears and spilled into the basin below. Words were inscribed around the base: Afontepuropura defluit aqua. Apure fountain gives pure water. Silvery tapestries hung from the walls, though their designs had faded with age. Between two large pillars a circle of tall, straight-backed chairs were tumbled on their sides, as if someone had knocked them down in a rage. Cushions were strewn across the floor. Kieran stepped noiselessly out from behind the fountain. His chin was raised defiantly, his hair the darkest black Cristina had ever seen it. Even the glare of the witchlight torches seemed to sink into it and vanish without reflecting off the strands. "How did you get the doors open?" Cristina asked, glancing over her shoulder at the massive iron wedges. When she turned back, Kieran had raised his hands, open-palmed: They were scored all over with dark red marks, as if he had picked up red-hot pokers and held them tightly. Iron burns. "Does it please you?" Kieran said. He was breathing hard. "Here I am, in your Nephilim iron prison." "Of course it doesn't please me." She frowned at him. She couldn't help the small voice inside that asked her why she'd come. She hadn't been able to stop herself--she'd kept thinking of Kieran alone, betrayed and lost. Perhaps it was the bond between them, the one he'd spoken of in her room. But she'd felt his presence and his unhappiness like a whisper at the back of her mind until she'd gone to look for him. "What are you to Mark?" he demanded. "Kieran," she said. "Sit down. Let's sit down and talk." He only stared at her, watchful and tense. Like an animal in the woods, ready to break away if she moved. Cristina sat down slowly on the scattered cushions. She smoothed her skirt down, tucking her legs under her. "Please," she said, holding out her hand to indicate the cushion across from hers, as if she were inviting him to tea. He lowered himself onto it like a cat settling, fur ruffled with tension. "The answer is," she said, "that I don't know. I don't know what I am to Mark, or he to me." "How can that be?" Kieran said. "We feel what we feel." He gazed down at his hands. They were faerie hands, long-jointed, scarred with many small nicks. "In the Hunt," he said, "it was real. We loved each other. We slept by each other's sides, and we breathed each other's breath and we were never apart. It was always real. It was never false." He looked at Cristina challengingly. "I never thought that. I always knew it was real," she said. "I saw the way Mark looked at you." She looped her hands together to keep them from shaking. "You know Diego?" "The very handsome stupid one," Kieran said. "He's not stupid. Not that it matters," Cristina added hastily. "I loved him when I was younger, and he loved me. There was a time when we were always together, like you and Mark. Later he betrayed me." "Mark spoke of it. In Faerie he would have been killed for such disrespect of a lady of your rank." Cristina wasn't entirely sure what Kieran thought her rank was. "Well, the result was that I thought that what we'd had was never real. It hurt more to think that than it did to think that he'd simply stopped loving me--for I had stopped loving him that way too. We had grown out of what we had. But that is a natural thing and happens often. It is much more painful to believe that your love was always a lie." "What else am I meant to believe?" Kieran demanded. "When Mark is willing to lie to me for the Clave he despises--" "He didn't do it for the Clave," said Cristina. "Have you been listening to anything the Blackthorns have been saying? This is for his family. His sister is in exile because she is part faerie--this is to bring her back." Kieran's expression was opaque. She knew family meant little to him in the abstract; it was hard to blame him for that. But the Blackthorns, in all their concrete realness, their messy and honest and total love for each other... did he see it? "So do you no longer believe your love with the Rosales boy was a lie?" he said. "It was not a lie," she said. "Diego has his reasons for what he's doing now. And when I look back, it is with pleasure at the happiness we had. The bad things can't matter more than the good things, Kieran." "Mark told me," he said, "that when you went into Faerie, you were each made a promise by the phouka who guards the gate that you would find something you wanted there. What was it you wanted?" "The phouka told me I would be given a chance to bring the Cold Peace to an end," said Cristina. "It is why I agreed when it was decided to cooperate with the Queen." Kieran looked at her, shaking his head. For a moment she thought he considered her foolish, and her heart sank. He reached to touch her face. The glide of his fingers was featherlight, as if she had been brushed by the calyx of a flower. "When I swore fealty to you in the Court of the Queen," he said, "it was to annoy and anger Mark. But now I think I made a wiser decision than I could have imagined." "You know I'll never hold you to that oath, Kieran." "Yes. And that is why I say you are nothing like I thought you'd be," he said. "I have lived in this small world of the Wild Hunt and Faerie Courts, yet you make me feel the world is bigger and full of possibility." He dropped his hand. "I have never known someone so generous in their heart." Cristina felt as if her face were on fire. "Mark is also all those things," she said. "When Gwyn came to tell us you were in danger in Faerie, Mark went to get you immediately regardless of the cost." "That was a kind thing to tell me," he said. "You have always been kind." "Why do you say that?" "Because you could always have taken Mark from me, but you didn't." "No," Cristina said. "It is as you told Adaon--you would not want Mark's love if it did not come freely. Neither would 1.1 would not pressure or influence him. If you think I would, and that it would work if I did--then you don't know me at all. Nor Mark. Not as he really is." Kieran's lips parted. He didn't speak, though, because the Sanctuary doors had opened, and Mark had come in. He was all in black and looked exhausted. The red ring around his wrist drew Cristina's eye; involuntarily, she touched her own wrist, the healing skin of the binding wound. "I followed you here," he said to Cristina. "There's still enough of the binding spell left to allow me to do that. I thought you'd be with Kieran." Kieran said nothing. He looked like a faerie prince in a painting: remote, unassailable, distant. "My lord Kieran," Mark said formally. "Can we talk?" They looked like a painting, both of them kneeling, Cristina's dark hair falling to hide her face. Kieran, opposite her, was a study in contrasts of black and white. Mark stood in the doorway of the Sanctuary for a moment, just watching them, his heart feeling as if it were being compressed inside his chest. He really did have a thing for dark hair, he thought. At that moment he heard Cristina say his name and realized he was eavesdropping. Coming into the Sanctuary felt like entering a cold, harsh place: It was bound all around with iron. Kieran must have felt it too, though the look on his face gave no sign. It gave no sign he felt anything at all. "My lord Kieran," Mark said. "Can we talk?" Cristina rose to her feet. "I should go." "You need not." Kieran had leaned back to lounge among the spilled cushions. Faeries did not lie with their words, but they lied with their faces and voices, the gestures of their hands. Right now anyone looking at Kieran would think he felt nothing but boredom and dislike. But he hadn't left. He was still in the Institute. Mark clung to that. "I must," Cristina said. "Mark and I are not meant to be near each other as the binding spell wears off." Mark moved closer to her, though, as she went to the door. Their hands brushed. Had he thought she was beautiful the moment he met her? He remembered coming awake to the sound of her voice, seeing her sitting on the floor of his room with her knife open. How grateful he had been that she was someone he had never known before the Hunt, someone who would have no expectations of him. She looked at him once and was gone. He was alone with Kieran. "Why are you here?" Kieran demanded. "Why lower yourself to come before someone you hate?" "I don't hate you. None of this was because I hated you or wanted to hurt you. I was angry with you--of course I was. Can't you understand why?" Kieran didn't meet Mark's eyes. "This is why Emma dislikes me," he said. "And Julian." "Iarlath whipped them both. The whipping he gave Emma would have killed a mundane human." "I remember," said Kieran miserably, "and yet it seems distant." He swallowed. "I knew I was losing you. I was afraid. There was more to it, as well. Iarlath had hinted you would not be safe in the Shadowhunters' world. That they were planning to lure you back, only to execute you on some trumped-up charge. I was a fool to believe him. I know it now." "Oh," said Mark. The knowledge unfolded in him, realization edged with relief. "You thought you were saving my life." Kieran nodded. "It makes no difference, though. What I did was wrong." "You will have to make your own apology to Emma and Julian," said Mark. "But for my sake, Kieran, I have forgiven you. You returned when you did not have to--you helped us save Tavvy--" "When I sought refuge here, I was blinded by rage," Kieran said. "All I could think was that you had lied to me. I thought you had come to the Court to save me because you--" His voice cracked. "Because you loved me. I cannot bear to think on my own stupidity." "I do love you," Mark said. "But it is not an easy or restful sort of love, Kier." "Not like what you feel for Cristina." "No," said Mark. "Not like what I feel for Cristina." Kieran's shoulders sagged slightly. "I am glad you admit it," he said. "I could not tolerate a lie now, I think. When first I loved you, I knew I was loving something that could lie. I told myself it would not matter. But it matters more than I ever thought." Mark closed the distance between them. He was half-certain that Kieran would back away from him, but the other boy didn't move. Mark approached until there were only inches of space between them, until Kieran's eyes had widened, and then Mark knelt, cold marble against his knees. It was a gesture he had seen before, in the Hunt and at revels. One faerie kneeling to another. Not submission, but an apology. Forgive me. Kieran's eyes were like saucers. "It does matter," Mark said. "I wish that I could not lie, so that you would believe me: All these days, I have not held back from affection with you because I was angry at you, or sickened. I wanted you just as I did in the Hunt. But I could not be with you, touch you, with all of it shadowed by lies. It would not have felt true or honest. It would not have felt as if you were choosing me, because to make a true choice, we must have true knowledge." "Mark," Kieran whispered. "I do not love you as I love Cristina. I love you as I love you," said Mark. He bent his head. "I wish that you could see my heart. Then you would understand." There was a rustling sound. Kieran had sunk to his own knees, level with Mark. "Would you have told me?" he said. "After the testimony?" "Yes. I couldn't have stood it otherwise." Kieran half-closed his eyes. Mark could see crescents of black and silver beneath his lids, fringed by his dark lashes. His hair had paled to almost a pewter color. "I believe you." He opened his eyes, looked directly into Mark's. "Do you know why I trust you?" Mark shook his head. He could hear the water rushing in the fountain behind them, reminding him of a thousand rivers they had ridden over together, a thousand streams they had slept beside. "Because of Cristina," said Kieran. "She would not have agreed to a dishonorable plan. I understand you were trying to help your family, your sister. I understand why you were desperate. And I believe you would not have deceived me longer than you needed." Something behind his eyes suddenly seemed very old. "I will testify," he said. Mark started up. "Kieran, you don't--" Kieran's hands came up to cup Mark's face. His touch was gentle. "I am not doing it for you," he said. "This will be what I do for Emma and the others. Then that debt will be paid. You and I, our debts are paid already." He leaned forward and brushed his lips against Mark's. Mark wanted to chase the kiss, the warmth of it, the familiarity. He felt Kieran's hand come down to splay itself over his chest--over the elf-bolt that hung there, below his collarbone. "We will be done with each other." "No," Mark whispered. But Kieran was on his feet, the warmth of his hands gone from Mark's skin. His eyes were dark, his whole body tense. Mark shot to his feet after, meaning to demand that Kieran explain what he had meant by done --just as a terrible noise split the air. It was a noise that came from outside the Institute, though not very far at all. Not nearly far enough. A memory flashed through Mark's mind, of watching from horseback as a forest of trees was destroyed by lightning. Fire had flashed beneath him, the wrenching crash of branches and trunks like shrieks in his head. Kieran sucked in a breath. His eyes had gone distant, unfocused. "They have come," he said. "They are near." A crash ripped Emma out of sleep and out of Julian's arms. A crash that wasn't quite a crash; she thought at first that it sounded like two cars slamming into each other on the highway, the screech of brakes and the explosion of glass. It seemed to be coming from right outside; she bolted up and hurtled across the room to the window. There were five of them in the courtyard. They gleamed bronze in the morning light, both horses and riders. The steeds seemed metallic, their eyes bound with bronze silk, their hooves gleaming with a high polish. The faeries who sat astride them were just as shimmering and beautiful, their armor without visible jointure so that it looked like liquid bronze. Their faces were masked, their hair long and metallic. Somehow, here in the heart of London, they looked far more terrifying than they had the first time Emma had seen them. Julian was awake, sitting on the edge of the bed, reaching for the weapons belt that hung on the wall over the nightstand. "They came," she said. "It's the Riders." They raced to the library, all of them but Kit and Bridget, as Magnus had instructed. Magnus, Cristina, Ty, and Livvy were already there when Emma came bursting in with Cortana in her hand. Julian was a few paces behind her. They'd agreed it was better not to seem as if they'd been together. Everyone was standing at the windows, from which the curtains had been thrown back to provide an uninterrupted view of the courtyard and the front of the Institute. Magnus was leaning against the glass, arm extended, hand flat against the pane, his expression grim. There were black hollows under his eyes and he looked worryingly gaunt and exhausted. Mark and Kieran came in as Emma hooked her sword over her back and hurried to the windows. Julian slid in beside her and stared through the glass. The five Riders hadn't moved from the courtyard. They remained where they were, like statues. Their horses had no reins or bridles, nothing for them to hold. They sat with their swords unsheathed, held out ahead of them like a row of gleaming teeth. Kieran came forward before Mark, crossing the room to the window, and after a moment Mark followed. They stood in a line: the Shadowhunters, the warlock, and the faerie prince, staring grimly down at the courtyard. Kieran was silent and sick-looking, his hair a pale white, the color of bones. "They can't get inside the Institute," said Ty. "No," Magnus said. "The wards keep them out." "Nonetheless, we should get away as soon as we can," said Kieran. "I do not trust the Riders. They will think of some way in." "We need to contact Alicante," said Livvy. "Get them to open their side of a Portal so we can get out of here." "We can't do that without revealing that the Riders are here, and why," said Julian. "But-- we could still Portal away from here, even if we didn't go straight to Idris." He glanced sideways at Magnus. "The thing is, I can't make my side of a Portal right now," said Magnus. He spoke with some effort. "We need to hold out a few hours. I've exhausted my energy--I wasn't expecting to need to heal Kit, or to need to send Alec and the children away." There was an awful silence. It had never occurred to any of them that there were things Magnus couldn't do. That he had weaknesses, like anyone else. "There's a Portal in the crypt," said Ty. "But it only goes to the Cornwall Institute." No one asked him how he knew that. "That Institute is abandoned, though," said Julian. "The protections are probably stronger here." "We'd just be trading Institute for Institute," said Magnus. "We'd still be trapped inside, and with weaker protections. And believe me, they'd be able to follow us. There have never been greater hunters than the Riders of Mannan." "What about Catarina Loss?" said Livvy. "She got us out of the Los Angeles Institute." Magnus took a shaky breath. "The same wards keeping the Riders out also prevent anyone from trying to make a Portal from outside." "What about the Seelie Queen?" Emma said. "Might she be willing to help us fight the Riders?" "The Queen isn't on our side," said Julian. "She's only on her own side." There was a long silence. Magnus broke it. "I have to hand it to you," he said. "I never thought Jace and Clary would be topped by anyone else in terms of insane, self-destructive decisions, but you all are giving them a run for their money." "I really had nothing to do with this," Kieran pointed out stiffly. "I think you will find many poor decisions led you here, my friend," Magnus said. "All right, there are a few things I can do to try to bring my energy up. You--all of you--wait here. And don't do anything stupid." He strode out of the room on long, black-clad legs, swearing under his breath. "He's getting more and more like Gandalf," said Emma, watching him go. "I mean, a hot, younger-looking Gandalf, but I keep expecting him to start stroking his long white beard and muttering darkly." "At least he's willing to help us," said Julian. His gaze sharpened. A Rider was coming through the gates. The sixth rider, this one with a slighter build, a spill of long bronze hair. Ethna, Emma thought. The sister. Then her thoughts dissolved into a buzz of shock. A small figure was propped on the bronze horse's back in front of her. A little human girl, with short black hair. She dangled limply in the faerie woman's one-handed grip, but she was blinking, her face twisted in terror. She couldn't have been more than four years old--she wore leggings with a cheerful print of bees, and bright pink sneakers. In her other hand, Ethna held a dagger, the point of it against the back of the girl's neck. Julian had gone rigid as marble, his face white. Voices rose around Emma in the room, but they were only noise. She couldn't distinguish the words. She was staring at the little girl, and in her mind she saw Dru, Tavvy, even Livvy and Ty; they had all been that tiny once, that helpless. And Ethna was strong. All she had to do was drive that dagger forward, and she'd sever the child's head from her neck. "Get back from the window," said Julian. "Everyone, get back from the window. If they don't think we're watching them, they're less likely to hurt the girl." His hand was on Emma's arm. She staggered back with the others. She could hear Mark protesting. They should go down, he was saying. Fight off the Riders. "We can't," said Julian in anguish. "We'll be slaughtered." "I killed one of them before," said Emma. "I--" "They were caught off guard, though." Julian's voice reached her partially distorted through shock. "They didn't expect it--didn't think it was possible--this time they'll be prepared--" "He is right," said Kieran. "Sometimes the most ruthless heart speaks the most truth." "What do you mean?" Mark was flushed, his right hand gripping his wrist; Emma realized, distantly, that the mark of the binding spell was gone from his skin, and from Cristina's, too. "The children of Mannan have never been defeated," Kieran said. "Emma is the first ever to slay one. They have taken the child to lure us out, because they know they will have us in their power when we do." "They'll kill her," Emma said. "She's a baby." "Emma--" Julian reached out for her. She could read his face. Julian would do anything, brave anything, for his family. There was nothing and no one he wouldn't sacrifice. That was why this had to be her. She bolted. She heard Julian shout her name but she was out the library door; she slammed it behind her and took off running down the hall. She was already in gear, already had Cortana; she barreled down the steps, skidded through the entryway, and burst through the front doors of the Institute. She saw the blur of bronze that was the Riders, before she swung around and shoved the doors closed, whipping her stele from her pocket. She slashed a Locking rune across them just as she heard the dull thumps of bodies striking the other side, voices calling out to her not to be reckless, to open the doors, open them, Emma -- She put her stele in her pocket, raised Cortana, and descended the steps. <|title|>Chapter 28: The Sad Soul <|startofchapter|>"That's herf" Ethna cried, her voice rich and sweet. She drew the child in her grip closer to her, raised the blade in her hand. "That is the murderer who slew Fal." "It was a battle," Emma said. "He would have killed me." She looked at the other Riders. They stood in their row, facing her, a line of grim statuary. "I would think warriors would know the difference." "You should be killed like your parents," hissed one of the other Riders. Delan. "Tortured and carved with knives, like they were." Emma's heart lurched in her chest. Her fear for the girl was still there, but rage was starting to mix with it. "Let the girl go," she said. "Let her go and you can fight me. Revenge yourselves on me like you want to." She could hear pounding on the doors behind her. Soon enough they'd get them open; she didn't have any illusions of the locking rune holding forever. Her runes had surprising power now, because of Julian--but Julian would be a match for their capability. Emma raised Cortana, the morning sun sliding down the blade like melted butter. "I killed your brother with this sword," she said. "You want revenge? Let the girl go, and I'll fight you. Threaten her a moment longer and I'll go back inside the Institute." Her eyes flicked from one of them to the other. She thought of her parents, of their bodies, stripped and left on the beach for gulls to pick at. "We despoiled Fal's corpse," she lied. "Tore his armor from him, broke his weapon, left him for the rats and crows--" Ethna gave a high screech and shoved the small girl away from her. The girl toppled to the ground--Emma gasped--but she found her feet and ran, sobbing, for the road. She looked back over her shoulder only once, mouth wide in her tearstained face as she sprinted through the gate and disappeared. Relief shot through Emma. The girl was safe. And then Ethna charged, her horse's hooves silent on the courtyard stone. She was like a thrown spear hurtling through the air, noiseless and deadly; Emma bent her knees and sprang, using the height of the steps and the force of her fall to give the swing of her sword power. Their blades clanged together in midair. The shock rattled Emma's bones. Ethna's arm flew wide; Emma landed in a crouch and drove her sword upward, but the faerie woman had already flung herself from the back of her horse. She was on her feet, laughing; the other Riders had dismounted as well. Their horses vanished, as if absorbed into the air as the children of Mannan surged toward Emma, blades raised. She lifted herself out of her crouch, Cortana describing a wide arc above her head, striking each sword aside--Emma was reminded of a hand sliding across piano keys, hitting each note in turn. But it was close. The last sword, Delan's, caught Emma's shoulder. She felt her gear rip, her skin sting. Another scar to add to the map of them. She whirled, and Ethna was behind her. She held two shortswords, gleaming bronze, and slashed at Emma with first one and then the other. Emma leaped back, barely in time. If she hadn't been wearing gear, she knew, she'd be dead, her guts spilled out on the flagstones. She felt her jacket tear, and even in the cold of battle, a hot spike of fear went down her spine. This was impossible. No one person could fight six Riders. She'd been mad to try, but she thought of the little girl's feet in their pink sneakers and couldn't be sorry. Not even when she turned to find three Riders blocking the way back into the Institute. The door of the Institute had stopped shaking. Good, Emma thought. The others should stay safely inside; it was the wise thing to do, the smart thing. "Your friends have abandoned you," sneered one of the Riders blocking her way. His bronze hair was short and curling, giving him the look of a Greek kouros. He was lovely. Emma hated his guts. "Give yourself up now and we will make your death quick." "I could give myself a quick death, if that was what I wanted," Emma said, her sword outstretched to hold off the other three faeries. "As it happens." Ethna was glaring at her. The other Riders--she recognized Airmed, if not the others-- were whispering; she caught the last few words of a sentence. "--is the sword, as I told you." "But runed work cannot harm us," said Airmed. "Nor seraph blades." Emma dove for Ethna. The faerie woman spun, bringing her blades across in a whip-fast slashing gesture. Emma leaped. It was a move she had practiced over and over with Julian in the training room, using a bar that they raised just a little bit every day. The blades whipped by beneath her feet, and in her mind's eye she saw Julian, his arms raised to catch her. Julian. She landed on the other side of Ethna, whirled, and drove her blade into the faerie woman's back. Or tried, at least. Ethna spun at the last moment, and the blade sliced open her bronze armor, opening a gash in her side. She shrieked and staggered back and Emma jerked Cortana free, blood spattering from the blade onto the flagstones. Emma raised the sword. "This is Cortana," she gasped, her chest heaving. "Of the same steel and temper as Joyeuse and Durendal. There is nothing Cortana cannot cut." "A blade of Wayland the Smith," cried the Rider with the bronze curls, and to Emma's amazement, there was fear in his voice. "Silence, Karn," snapped one of the others. "It is yet only one blade. Kill her." Karri's beautiful face contracted. He lifted his weapon--a massive battle-ax--and started for Emma; she raised Cortana-- And the front door of the Institute burst open, disgorging Shadowhunters. Julian. Emma saw him first, a blur of gear and sword and dark hair. Then Mark, Cristina. Kieran, Ty, Livvy. And Kit, who must have come from the infirmary, since he seemed to have thrown gear on over his pajamas. At least he was wearing boots. They drove back the Riders on the steps, Julian and Mark first, their swords flashing in their hands. Neither of them carried seraph blades, Emma saw--they had taken only plain- bladed weapons, unruned, meant for slaying Downworlders. Even Kieran carried one, a sword whose pommel and grip gleamed with gold and silver instead of steel. One of the Riders let out a roar of rage when he saw Kieran. "Traitor!" he snarled. Kieran dropped a courtly little bow. "Eochaid," he said, by way of greeting. "And Etarlam." He winked at the sixth Rider, who made a sour face. "Well met." Eochaid lunged for him. Kieran dropped into a half crouch, swinging his sword with a lightness and skih that surprised Emma. The clash of their blades seemed to signal the beginning of a much larger battle. Julian and Mark had forced the Riders from the steps in the first surprise of their appearance. Now the others poured after them, hounding and worrying at them with blades. Mark, carrying a double-edged straight sword, went for Delan; the twins harried Airmed while Cristina, looking beyond furious, engaged Etarlam. Julian began to move through the blur of battle, slashing to either side of him, cutting his way toward Emma. His eyes suddenly widened. Behind you! She spun. It was Ethna, her face twisted into a mask of hatred. Her blades made a scissoring motion--Emma raised Cortana just in time, and Ethna's double blades closed on it with savage force. And shattered. The faerie woman gasped in surprise. A second later she was scrambling back, her hands moving in the air. Julian changed course and leaped after her, but another weapon was taking shape in her grasp, this one with a curved blade like a Persian shamshir. Julian's sword slammed against Ethna's. Emma felt the collision between their weapons. It forked through her like lightning. Suddenly everything was happening very fast: Julian twisted gracefully away from the blade, but the edge of it caught him across the top of the arm. Emma felt the pain of it, her parabatai's pain, just as she had felt his blade strike Ethna's. She launched herself at the two of them, but Eochaid rose up in front of her and the point of a sword hurtled toward her face, a silver blur cutting the air. It fell away to the side. Eochaid howled, a brutal, angry sound, and whirled from her to strike savagely at the figure who had come up behind him, whose blade had pierced his shoulder. Blood stained Eochaid's bronze armor. It was Kieran. His hair was a mass of black and white strands, sticky with blood over his temple. His clothes were stained with red, his lip split. He stared at Emma, breathing hard. Eochaid leaped for him and they began to fight savagely. The world seemed a din of clashing blades: Emma heard a cry and saw Cristina fighting to get to Kit, who had been knocked to the ground by Delan. The Riders had swarmed up to the steps to block the Institute doors. Julian was holding off Ethna; the twins were fighting back-to-back, trying to hack their way up the steps alongside Mark. Emma began to shove blindly toward Kit, a coldness at her heart. The Riders were too fierce, too strong. They wouldn't tire. Delan was standing over Kit, his blade high in the air. Kit was scrambling back on his elbows. A sword flashed in front of Emma; she knocked it away with Cortana, heard someone swear. Delan was staring at Kit intently, as if his face held a mystery. "Who are you, boy?" the Rider demanded, his blade stilled. Kit wiped blood from his face. There was a dagger near him on the flagstones, just out of reach of his hand. "Christopher Herondale," he said, his eyes flashing arrogantly. He was a Shadowhunter, Emma thought, through and through; he would never beg for his life. Delan snorted. "Qui omnia nomini debes," he said, and began to swing his sword down, just as Emma ducked and rolled under the blade, Cortana flashing up, shearing through Delan's wrist. The faerie warrior screamed, an echoing howl of rage and pain. The air was full of a mist of blood. Delan's hand thumped to the ground, still gripping his sword; a second later Kit was on his feet, snatching up the weapon, his eyes blazing. Emma was beside him; together they began to back Delan up, his blood painting the flagstones beneath them as he retreated. But Delan was laughing. "Slay me if you think you can," he sneered. "But look around you. You have already lost." Kit had his blade up, pointed directly at Delan's throat. "You look," he said steadily. "I'll stab." Emma's head snapped around. Airmed had backed Ty and Livvy against a wall. Ethna had her weapon at Julian's throat. Cristina had been driven to her knees by Etarlam. Mark was looking at her in horror but couldn't move--Eochaid had his sword against Mark's back, just where he could sever his spine. Karn stood at the top of the steps, his blade out, grinning across his cruel and lovely face. Emma swallowed. Kit swore softly under his breath. Karn spoke, his teeth flashing white with his smile. "Give us the Black Volume," he said. "We will let you go." Kieran stood frozen, staring from Mark to Cristina. "Do not listen!" he cried. "The Riders are wild magic--they can lie." "We don't have the book," Julian said steadily. "We've never had it. Nothing has changed." He looked calm, but Emma could see beneath the surface of him, behind his eyes. She could hear the noise of his thundering heart. He was looking at her, at Mark, at Ty and Livvy, and he was mortally terrified. "You are asking for something we cannot do," said Julian. "But maybe we can make a deal. We can swear to you that we will bring you the book when we find it--" "Your oaths mean nothing," snarled Ethna. "Let us kill them now and send a message to the Queen, that her tricks will not be countenanced!" Karn laughed. "Wise words, sister," he said. "Ready your blades--" Emma's hand clamped down on Cortana. Her mind whirled--she couldn't kill them all, couldn't prevent what they were going to do, but by the Angel she'd take some of them with her-- The gates of the courtyard burst open. They hadn't been locked, but they were flung wide now with such force that despite their weight, they flew to the sides, slamming into the stone walls of the yard, rattling like sundered chains. Beyond the gate was fog--thick and incongruous on such a sunny day. The violent tableau in the courtyard remained still, arrested in shock, as the fog cleared and a woman stepped into the yard. She was slight and of medium height, her hair a deep brown, falling to her waist. She wore a torn shift over a long skirt that didn't fit her well, and a pair of low boots. The bare skin of her arms and shoulders proclaimed her a Shadowhunter, with a Shadowhunter's scars. The Voyance rune decorated her right hand. She held no weapons. Instead she hugged a book to herself--an old volume, bound in dark leather, scuffed and worn. A folded piece of paper was stuck between two pages, like a bookmark. She raised her head and looked steadily before her at the scene in the courtyard; her expression was unsurprised, as if she'd expected nothing else. Emma's heart began to thump. She'd seen this woman before, though it had been a dark night in Cornwall. She knew her. "I am Annabel Blackthorn." The woman spoke in a clear, even tone, slightly accented. "The Black Volume is mine." Eochaid swore. He had a fine-boned, cruel face, like an eagle. "You lied to us," he snarled at Emma and the rest. "You told us you had no idea where the book was." "Nor did they," said Annabel, still with the same composure. "Malcolm Fade had it, and I took it from his dead body. But it is mine and always has been mine. It belonged in the library of the house I grew up in. The book has always been Blackthorn property." "Nevertheless," said Ethna, though she was looking at Annabel with a dubious respect. One due the undead, Emma suspected. "You will give it to us, or face the wrath of the Unseelie King." "The Unseelie King," murmured Annabel. Her face was placid in a way that chilled Emma --surely no one could be placid in this situation, no one who wasn't insane? "Give him my regards. Tell him I know his name." Delan blanched. "His what?" The true name of a faerie gave anyone who knew it power over them. Emma couldn't imagine what it would mean for the King to have his name revealed. "His name," Annabel said. "Malcolm was very close to him for many years. He learned your monarch's name. I know it too. If you do not clear off now, and return to the King with my message, I will tell it to everyone on the Council. I will tell every Downworlder. The King is not loved. He will find the results most unpleasant." "She lies," said Airmed, his hawk's eyes slitted. "Risk it with your King, then," she said. "Let him find out you are the ones responsible for the revelation of his name." "It would be easy enough to silence you," said Etarlam. Annabel did not move as he strode toward her, raising his free hand as if he meant to strike her across the face. He swung, and she caught his wrist, as lightly as a debutante taking her waltz partner's arm during a dance. And she flung him. He sailed across the courtyard and slammed into a wall with the clang of armor. Emma gasped. "Etar!" Ethna cried. She started toward her brother, abandoning Jules--and froze. Her curved sword was rising out of her hand. She reached for it, but it was floating above her head. More cries came from the other Riders--their swords were being jerked out of their grasps, gliding into the air above their heads. Ethna glared at Annabel. "You fool!" "That wasn't her," came a drawling voice from the doorway. It was Magnus, leaning heavily on Dru's shoulder. She seemed to be half-supporting him. Blue fire sparked from the fingers of his free hand. "Magnus Bane, High Warlock of Brooklyn, at your service." The Riders exchanged glances. Emma knew they could make new weapons easily, but what good would it do them if Magnus just snatched them out of their hands? Their eyes narrowed; their lips curled. "This is not finished," said Karn, and he looked across the courtyard directly at Emma as he said it. This is not finished between us. Then he vanished, and the remaining Riders followed. One moment they were there, the next gone, winking out of existence like vanishing stars. Their swords crashed to the ground with the loud clang of metal against stone. "Hey," muttered Kit. "Free swords." Magnus gave a low grunt and sagged backward; Dru caught at him, worry in her wide eyes. "Get inside, now. All of you." They scrambled to obey, the intact pausing to help those who had been injured, though none of the injuries were serious. Emma found Julian without even needing to look for him-- her parabatai senses were still humming, her body's interior knowledge that he had been cut, would need healing. She slid her arm around him as gently as she could, and he winced. His eyes met hers, and she knew he was feeling her own wound, the cut at the top of her shoulder. She wanted to throw her arms around him, wanted to wipe the blood from his face, kiss his closed eyes. But she knew how that would look. She held herself back with a control that hurt more than her injury did. Julian squeezed her hands and drew away reluctantly. "I have to go to Annabel," he said in a low voice. Emma started. She'd nearly forgotten Annabel, but she was still there, in the center of the courtyard, the Black Volume hugged to her chest. The others stood around her uncertainly-- after all the time spent looking for Annabel, it was clear no one had ever imagined she'd come to them. Even Julian paused before he reached her, hesitating as if deciding how to break the silence. Near him, Ty stood between Livvy and Kit, all of them staring at Annabel as if she were an apparition and not really there at all. "Annabel." It was Magnus. He had limped down the steps to the bottom; he had only a light hand on Dru's shoulder now, though there were dark crescents of exhaustion below his eyes. He sounded sad, that depthless sort of sadness that came out of a time, a life, that Emma could not even imagine. "Oh, Annabel. Why did you come here?" Annabel drew the folded piece of paper from the Black Volume. "I received a letter," she said, in a voice so soft it was barely audible. "From Tiberius Blackthorn." Only Kit didn't look surprised. He put his hand on Ty's arm as Tiberius scanned the ground furiously. "There was something in it," she said. "I had thought the world's hand turned against me, but as I read the letter, I imagined there was a chance it was not so." She raised her chin, that characteristic, defiant Blackthorn gesture that broke Emma's heart every time. "I have come to speak with Julian Blackthorn about the Black Volume of the Dead." "There is an undead person in our library," said Livvy. She was sitting on one of the long beds in the infirmary. They'd all gathered there--all but Magnus, who had closed himself into the library with Annabel. They were in various stages of being runed and patched up and cleaned. There was a small pile of bloody cloths growing on the counter. Ty was on the same bed as Livvy, his back to the headboard. As always after a battle, Emma noticed, he had withdrawn a bit, as if he needed time to recuperate from the clang and shock of it. He was twisting something between his fingers in regular rhythmic motions, though Emma couldn't see what it was. "It's not our library," he said. "It's Evelyn's." "Still strange," Livvy said. Neither she nor Ty had been injured in the fight, but Kit had, and she was finishing an iratze on his back. "All done," she said, patting his shoulder, and he drew his T-shirt down with a wince. "She isn't undead, not exactly," said Julian. Emma had given him an iratze, but some part of her had become afraid of drawing runes on him, and she'd stopped there, bandaging the wound instead. He'd had a long cut running down his upper arm, and even after he'd pulled his shirt back on, the bandages were visible through the fabric. "She's not a zombie or a ghost." One of the glasses of water on a nightstand fell over with a crash. "Jessamine didn't appreciate that," said Kit. Cristina laughed--she wasn't injured either, but she was worrying at the pendant around her throat as she watched Mark tend to Kieran's injuries. Hunters healed faster, Emma knew, but they also bruised easily, it seemed. A map of blue-black spread over Kieran's back and shoulders, and one of his cheekbones was darkening. With a cloth that Cristina had wet down in one of his hands, Mark was gently sponging away the blood. The elf-bolt gleamed around Mark's neck. Emma didn't know what was going on with Mark and Kieran and Cristina exactly--Cristina had been remarkably reluctant to explain-- but she knew Kieran had learned the truth about his and Mark's relationship. Still, Kieran hadn't taken his elf-bolt back, so that was something. She realized with a small jolt of surprise that she was hoping things worked out for them. She hoped that wasn't disloyal to Cristina. But she was no longer angry at Kieran--he might have made a mistake, but he'd made up for it many times over since then. "Where was Jessamine earlier?" said Julian. "Isn't she supposed to protect the Institute?" Another crash of glass. "She says she can't leave the Institute. She can only protect inside of it." Kit paused. "I don't know if I should repeat the rest of what she said." After a moment, he smiled. "Thank you, Jessamine." "What did she say?" Livvy asked, picking up her stele. "That I'm a true Herondale," he said. He frowned. "What did that metal guy say to me when I told him my name? Was it faerie language?" "Oddly, it was Latin," said Julian. "An insult. Something Mark Antony once said to Augustus Caesar--'you, boy, who owe everything to a name.' He was saying he would never have amounted to anything if he hadn't been a Caesar." Kit looked annoyed. "I've been a Herondale for like three weeks," he said. "And I'm not sure what I've gotten out of it." "Do not pay too much attention to the pronouncements of faeries," said Kieran. "They will get under your skin in any way they can." "Does that include you?" asked Cristina, with a smile. "Obviously," said Kieran, and he smiled too, just slightly. Theirs might be the weirdest friendship she'd ever seen, Emma thought. "We're off topic," said Livvy. "Annabel Blackthorn is in our library. That's weird, right? Doesn't anyone else think it's weird?" "Why is that weirder than vampires?" said Ty, clearly perplexed. "Or werewolves?" "Well, of course you wouldn't think it was," said Kit. "You're the one who told her to come." "Yes, about that," Julian began. "Is there a particular reason you didn't tell any of us--" Ty was saved from a brotherly chastisement by the infirmary door opening. It was Magnus. Emma didn't like the way he looked--he seemed grimly pale, his eyes shadowed, his movements stiff, as if he were bruised. His mouth was set in a serious line. "Julian," he said. "If you could come with me." "What for?" asked Emma. "I've been trying to talk to Annabel," Magnus said. "I thought she might be willing to open up to someone who wasn't a Shadowhunter if she had the option, but she's stubborn. She's stayed polite, but she says she'll only speak to Julian." "Does she not remember you?" Julian asked, getting up. "She remembers me," said Magnus. "But as a friend of Malcolm's. And she's not his biggest fan these days." Ungrateful, Emma remembered Kieran saying. But he was silent now, rebuttoning his torn shirt, his bruised eyes cast downward. "Why doesn't she want to talk to Ty?" said Livvy. "He sent her the message." Magnus shrugged an I couldn't tell you shrug. "All right, I'll be right back," said Julian. "We're leaving for Idris as soon as possible, so everyone grab anything they might need to take with them." "The Council meeting is this afternoon," Magnus said. "I'll have the strength to make a Portal in a few hours. We'll be sleeping in Alicante tonight." He sounded relieved about it. He and Julian headed out into the hallway. Emma meant to hang back, but she couldn't--she darted after them before the door closed. "Jules," she said. He had already started down the corridor with Magnus; at the sound of her voice, they both turned. She couldn't have done it in the infirmary, but it was just Magnus, and he already knew. She went up to Julian and put her arms around him. "Be careful," she said. "She sent us into a trap in that church. This could be a trap too." "I'll be right there, outside the room," Magnus said, subdued. "I'll be ready to intervene. But Julian, under no circumstances should you try to take the Black Volume from her, even if she isn't holding it. It's tied to her with pretty powerful magic." Julian nodded, and Magnus disappeared down the hallway, leaving them alone. For long moments, they held each other in silence, letting the anxiety of the day dissipate: their fear for each other in the battle, their fear for the children, their worry over what was going to happen in Alicante. Julian was warm and solid in her arms, his hand tracing a soothing line down her back. He smelled of cloves, as always, as well as antiseptic and bandages. She felt his chin nudge her hair as his fingers flew across the back of her shirt. D-O-N-TW-O-R-R-Y. "Of course I'm worried," said Emma. "You saw what she did to Etarlam. Do you think you can convince her to just give you the book?" "I don't know," Julian said. "I'll know when I talk to her." "Annabel's been lied to so much," said Emma. "Don't promise anything we can't deliver." He kissed her forehead. His lips moved against her skin, his voice so low that no one who didn't know him as well as Emma did could have understood him at all. "I will do," he said, "whatever I need to do." She knew he meant it. There was nothing more to say; she watched him go down the corridor toward the library with troubled eyes. Kit was in his room packing his meager belongings when Livvy came in. She'd dressed for the trip to Idris, in a long black skirt and a round-collared white shirt. Her hair was loose down her back. She looked at Ty, sitting on Kit's bed. They'd been discussing Idris and what Ty remembered of it. "It's not like any place else," he'd told Kit, "but when you get there, you'll feel like you've been there before." "Ty-Ty," Livvy said. "Bridget says you can take one of the old Sherlock Holmes books from the library and keep it." Ty's face lit up. "Which one?" "Whichever you want. Your choice. Just hurry up; we're going to leave as soon as we can, Magnus said." Ty bounded to the door, seemed to remember Kit, and swung back around. "We can talk more later," he said, and darted off down the hallway. "Only one book! One!" Livvy called after him with a laugh. "Ouch!" She reached up to fiddle with something at the back of her neck, her face crinkled in annoyance. "My necklace is caught on my hair--" Kit reached up to untangle the thin gold chain. A locket dangled from it, kissing the hollow of her throat. Up close, she smelled like orange blossoms. Their faces were very close together, and the pale curve of her mouth was near his. Her lips were light rose pink. Confusion stirred in Kit. But it was Livvy who shook her head. "We shouldn't, Kit. No more kissing. I mean, we only did it once anyway. But I don't think that's how we're meant to be." The necklace came free. Kit drew his hands away quickly, confused. "Why?" he asked. "Did I do something wrong?" "Not even a little." She looked at him for a moment with her wise and thoughtful eyes; there was a soft happiness in Livvy that drew Kit, but not in a romantic way. She was right, and he knew it. "Everything's great. Ty even says he thinks we should be parabatai, after all this is cleared up." Her face glowed. "I hope you'll come to the ceremony. And you'll always be my friend, right?" "Of course," he said, and only later did he stop to think that she had said my friend, and not our friend, hers and Ty's. Right now he was just relieved that he didn't feel hurt or bothered by her decision. He felt instead a pleasant anticipation of getting through this Council meeting and going home--back to Los Angeles--where he could start his training and have the twins to help him through the rough parts. "Friends always." Julian felt a twist of apprehension in his stomach as he entered the library. Part of him half- expected Annabel to have vanished, or to be drifting around the stacks of books like a long- haired ghost in a horror movie. He'd seen one once where the ghost of a girl had crawled out of a well, her pale face hidden behind masses of wet, dark hair. The memory gave him shivers even now. The library was well illuminated by its rows of green banker's lamps. Annabel sat at the longest table, the Black Volume in front of her, her hands clasped in her lap. Her hair was long and dark, and half-hid her face, but it wasn't wet and there wasn't anything obviously uncanny about her. She looked--ordinary. He sat down across from her. Magnus must have brought her something to wear from the storage room: She was in a very plain blue dress, a little short in the sleeves. Jules guessed she had been around nineteen when she died, maybe twenty. "That was quite a trick you pulled," he said, "with the note in the church. And the demon." "I didn't expect you to burn the church down." That pronounced accent was back in her voice, the strangeness of a way of speaking long outdated now. "You surprised me." "And you've surprised me, coming here," Julian said. "And saying you'd only talk to me. You don't even like me, I thought." "I came because of this." She drew the folded paper from the book and held it out to him. Her fingers were long, the joints strangely misshapen. He realized he was looking at evidence that her fingers had been broken, more than once, and that the bones had knit back together oddly. The visible remnants of torture. He felt a little sick as he took the letter and opened it. To; Annabel Blackthorn Annabel, You might not know me, but we are related. My name is Tiberius Blackthorn. My family and I are looking for the Black Volume of the Dead. We know you have it, because my brotherJulian saw you take it from Malcolm Fade. I'm not blaming you. Malcolm Fade is not our friend. He tried to hurt our family, to destroy us if he could. He's a monster. But the thing is, we need the book now. We need it so that we can save our family. We're a good family. You would like us if you knew us. There's me -- I'm going to be a detective. There is Livvy, my twin, who can fence, and Drusilla, who loves everything scary, and Tavvy, who likes stories read to him. There is Mark, who is part faerie. He's an excellent cook. There is Helen, who was exiled to guard the wards, but not because she did anything wrong. And Emma, who isn't strictly a Blackthorn but is like our extra sister anyway. And there is Jules. You might like him the best. He is the one who takes care of us all. He is the reason we're all okay and still together. I don't think he knows we know that, but we do. Sometimes he might tell us what to do or not listen, but he would do anything for any of us. People say we're unlucky because we don't have parents. But I think they're unlucky because they don't have a brother like mine. Julian had to stop there. The pressure behind his eyes had built to a shattering intensity. He wanted to put his head down on the table and burst into unmanly, undignified tears--for the boy he had been, scared and terrified and twelve years old, looking at his younger brothers and sisters and thinking, They're mine now. For them, their faith in him, their expectation his love would be unconditional, that he wouldn't need to be told he was loved back because of course he was. Ty thought this about him and probably thought it was obvious. But he had never guessed. He forced himself to stay silent, to keep his face expressionless. He laid the letter down on the table so that the shaking of his hand was less visible. There was only a little writing left. Don't think I'm asking you to do us a favor for nothing in return. Julian can help you. He can help anyone. You can't want to he running and hiding. I know what happened to you, what the Clave and Council did. Things are different now. Let us explain. Let us show you how you don't have to he exiled or alone. You don't have to give us the hook. We just want to help. We're at the London Institute. Whenever you want to come, you'd he welcome. Yours, Tiherius Nero Blackthorn "How does he know what happened to me?" Annabel didn't sound angry, only curious. "What the Inquisitor and the others did to me?" Julian got to his feet and went across the room to where the aletheia crystal rested on a bookcase. He brought it back and gave it to her. "Ty found this in Blackthorn Hall," he said. "These are someone's memories of your--trials--in the Council chamber." Annabel raised the crystal to eye level. Julian had never seen the expression of someone looking into an aletheia crystal before. Her eyes widened, tracking back and forth as she gazed at the scene moving before her. Her cheeks flushed, her lips shook. Her hand began to jerk uncontrollably, and she flung the crystal away from her; it hit the table, denting the wood without breaking. "Oh God, is there to be no mercy?" she said in an empty voice. "Will there never be any mercy or forgetfulness?" "Not while this is still an injustice." Julian's heart was beating hard, but he knew he showed no outward signs of agitation. "It will always hurt as long as they haven't recompensed you for what they did." She raised her eyes to his. "What do you mean?" "Come with me to Idris," Julian said. "Testify in front of the Council. And I will see to it that you get justice." She turned pale and swayed slightly. Julian half-rose from his chair. He reached for her and stopped; maybe she wouldn't want to be touched. And there was some part of him that didn't want to touch her. He'd seen her when she was a skeleton held together with a fragile cobwebbing of yellowed skin and tendon. She looked real and solid and alive now, but he couldn't help but feel his hand would pass through her skin and strike crumbling bone beneath. He drew his hand back. "You cannot offer me justice," she said. "You cannot offer me anything I want." Julian felt cold all over, but he could not deny the excitement sparking through his nerves. He saw the plan, suddenly, in front of him, the strategy of it, and the excitement of that overrode even the chill of the razor's edge he was walking. "I never told anyone you were in Cornwall," he said. "Even after the church. I kept your secret. You can trust me." She looked at him with wide eyes. This was why he had done it, Julian thought. He had kept this information to himself as possible leverage, even when he hadn't known for sure that there would ever be a moment he could use it. Emma's voice whispered in his head. Julian, you scared me a little. "I wanted to show you something," Julian said, and drew from his jacket a rolled-up paper. He handed it across the table to Annabel. It was a drawing he had done of Emma, on Chapel Cliff, the sea breaking under her feet. He had been pleased with the way he had captured the wistful look on her face, the sea thick as paint below her, the weak sun gray-gold on her hair. "Emma Carstairs. My parabatai," said Julian. Annabel raised grave eyes. "Malcolm spoke of her. He said she was stubborn. He spoke of all of you. Malcolm was afraid of you." Julian was stunned. "Why?" "He said what Tiberius said. He said you would do anything for your family." You have a ruthless heart. Julian pushed away the words Kieran had said to him. He couldn't be distracted. This was too important. "What else can you tell from the picture?" he said. "That you love her," said Annabel. "With all of your soul." There was nothing suspicious in her gaze; parabatai were meant to love each other. Julian could see the prize, the solution. Kieran's testimony was one piece of the puzzle. It would help them. But the Cohort would object to it, to any alliance with faeries. Annabel was the key to destroying the Cohort and ensuring the safety of the Blackthorns. Julian could see the image of his family safe, Aline and Helen returned, in front of him like a shimmering city on a hill. He went toward it, thinking of nothing else. "I saw your sketches and paintings," he said. "I could tell from them what you loved." "Malcolm?" she said, with her eyebrows raised. "But that was a long time ago." "Not Malcolm. Blackthorn Manor. The one in Idris. Where you lived when you were a child. All your drawings of it were alive. Like you could see it in your mind. Touch it with your hand. Be there in your heart." She laid his sketch down on the table. She was silent. "You could get that back," he said. "The manor house, all of it. I know why you ran. You expected that if the Clave caught you, they'd punish you, hurt you again. But I can promise you they won't. They're not perfect, they're far from perfect, but this is a new Clave and Council. Downworlders sit on our Council." Her eyes flew open. "Magnus said that, but I didn't believe him." "It's true. Marriage between a Downworlder and a Shadowhunter isn't illegal anymore. If we bring you before the Clave, they won't just not hurt you--you'll be reinstated. You'll be a Shadowhunter again. You could live in Blackthorn Manor. We'd give it to you." "Why?" She rose to her feet and began to pace. "Why would you do all that for me? For the book? Because I will not give it to you." "Because I need you to stand up in front of the Council and say that you killed Malcolm," he told her. She had left the Black Volume on the table before him. She was still pacing, not looking at him. Recalling Magnus's warning-- under no circumstances should you try to take the Black Volume from her, even if she isn't holding it --Julian opened it cautiously, peered at a page of cramped, unreadable lettering. An idea was beginning to unfurl inside his mind, like a cautious flower. He reached into his pocket. "That I killed Malcolm?" She spun to stare at him. He had his phone out, but he suspected it meant nothing to her--she'd probably seen mundanes wandering around with cell phones, but she'd never think of it as a camera. In fact, a camera wouldn't mean anything to her either. "Yes," he said. "Believe me, you'll be hailed as a hero." She'd begun pacing again. Julian's shoulders ached. The position he was in, both hands occupied and leaning forward, was an awkward one. But if this worked, it would be more than worth the pain. "There is someone who is lying," he said. "Taking credit for Malcolm's death. She is doing it so that she can get control of an Institute. Our Institute." He took a deep breath. "Her name is Zara Dearborn." The name electrified her, as he had suspected it would. "Dearborn," she breathed. "The Inquisitor who tortured you," said Julian. "His descendants are no better. They will all be there now, carrying their signs shaming Downworlders, shaming those who stand up to the Clave. They would bring an awful darkness down on us. But you can prove them liars. Discredit them." "Surely you could tell them the truth--" "Not without revealing how I know. I saw you kill Malcolm in the Seelie Queen's scrying glass. I'm telling you this because I am desperate--if you heard Malcolm speaking of the Cold Peace, you must know contact with faeries is forbidden. What I did would be considered treason. I'd take the punishment for it, but--" "Your brothers and sisters couldn't bear that," she finished for him. She turned back toward him just as he leaned away from the book. Were her eyes more like Livvy's or Dru's? They were blue-green and depthless. "I see things have not changed as much as all that. The Law is still hard, and is still the Law." Julian could hear the hate in her voice, and knew he had her. "But the Law can be circumvented." He leaned across the table. "We can trick them. And shame them. Force them to confront their lies. The Dearborns will pay. They'll all be there-- the Consul, the Inquisitor, all those who have inherited the power that was abused when they hurt you." Her eyes glittered. "You will make them acknowledge it? What they did?" "Yes." "And in return--?" "Your testimony," he said. "That's all." "You wish me to come to Idris with you. To stand before the Clave and Council, and the Inquisitor, as I did before?" Julian nodded. "And if they call me mad, if they declare I am lying, or under Malcolm's duress, you will stand for me? You will insist I am sane?" "Magnus will be with you every step of the way," Julian said. "He can stand beside you on the dais. He can protect you. He is the warlock representative on the Council, and you know how powerful he is. You can trust him even if you don't trust me." It was not a real answer, but she took it for one. Julian had known she would. "I do trust you," she said with wonder. She came forward and picked up the Black Volume, hugging it to her chest. "Because of your brother's letter. It was honest. I had not thought of an honest Blackthorn before. But I could hear the truth in how he loves you. You must be worthy of such love and trust, to have inspired it in one so truthful." Her eyes bored into him. "I know what you want--what you need. And yet now that I have come to you, you have not once asked for it. That should count for something. Though you failed my trial, I understand it now. You were acting for your family." He could see her swallow, the muscles moving in her thin, scarred throat. "You swear that if the Black Volume is given to you, you will keep it hidden from the Lord of Shadows? You will use it only to help your family?" "I swear on the Angel," said Julian. He knew how powerful an oath on the Angel was, and Annabel would know it too. But he was speaking only the truth, after all. His heart was beating in swift and powerful hammer-blows. He was blinded by the light of what he could imagine, what the Queen could do for them if they gave her the Black Volume: Helen, Helen could come back, and Aline, and the Cold Peace could end. And the Queen knows. She knows... He forced the thought back. He could hear Emma's voice, a whisper in the back of his mind. A warning. But Emma was good in her heart: honest, straightforward, a terrible liar. She didn't understand the brutality of need. The absoluteness of what he would do for his family. There was no end to its depth and breadth. It was total. "Very well," Annabel said. Her voice was strong, forceful: He could hear the unbreakable cliffs of Cornwall in her accent. "I will come with you to the City of Glass and speak before the Council. And if I am acknowledged, then the Black Volume will be yours." <|title|>Chapter 29: Ultima Thule <|startofchapter|>The sun was shining in Alicante. The first time Emma had been in Idris, it had been winter, cold as death, and there had been death all around--her parents had just been killed, and the Dark War had ravaged the city. They hadn't been able to burn the bodies of Shadowhunters killed in the streets fast enough, and the corpses had stacked up in the Hall like discarded children's toys. "Emma." Julian was pacing the long corridor in the Gard, lined with doors, each leading to the office of a different official. Alternating between the doors were windows letting in the bright light of late summer, and tapestries depicting significant events in Shadowhunter history. Most had small woven banners across the tops, describing what they were: THE BATTLE OF THE BUND, VALENTINE'S LAST STAND, THE PARIS ENGAGEMENT, THE UPRISING. "Do you remember... ?" She did remember. They'd stood in this exact place five years ago, listening to Lucian Graymark and Jia Penhallow discuss the exile of Mark and Helen, before Emma had thrown open the door to shout at them. It was one of the few times she'd seen Julian lose control. She could hear his voice in her head, even now. You promised the Clave would never abandon Mark while he was living--you promised! "Like I could forget," she said. "This is where we told the Consul we wanted to be parabatai." Julian touched her hand with his. It was only a brush of fingers--they were both conscious anyone could come down the corridor at any moment. Getting to Alicante had been difficult--Magnus had managed the Portal, though it seemed to have taken the last of his energy in a way that frightened Emma. He had been kneeling by the time the familiar swirling lights had formed, and he'd had to lean on Mark and Julian to rise. Still he had brushed off all concerns and informed them that they needed to go through the Portal quickly. Idris was warded and Portaling there was a complex business, since someone had to be on the other side to receive you. It was doubly complex now since Kieran was with them, and though Jia had waived the anti-Faerie protections on the Gard temporarily, the window for safe travel was short. Then the Portal had terrified Annabel. She had never seen one before, and despite everything she had been through, despite all the awful magic she had seen Malcolm wreak, the sight of the whirling chaos inside the doorway made her scream. In the end, after the Shadowhunters had all entered the Portal, she went through with Magnus, clutching the Black Volume in her hands, her face hidden against his shoulder. Only to be met on the other side by a crowd of Council members and the Consul herself. Jia had blanched when she saw Annabel and said in an astonished voice, "Is that really her?" Magnus had locked eyes with the Consul for a moment. "Yes," he said firmly. "It is. She is." There was a babble of questions. Emma couldn't blame the assembled Council members. There had been quite a few questions for Julian when he'd emerged from the library and told a waiting Magnus and Emma that Annabel was coming with them to Idris. As he'd outlined his plan, Emma had caught sight of the expression on Magnus's face. The warlock had looked at Julian with a mixture of astonishment, respect, and something that might have looked a little like horror. But it had probably just been surprise. After all, Magnus had seemed sanguine enough, and had immediately set about sending a fire-message to Jia to let her know what to expect. Emma had drawn Julian aside while blue sparks flew from Magnus's fingers. "What about the book?" she'd whispered. "What about the Queen?" Julian's eyes glittered. "If this works, Annabel will give us the Black Volume," he'd replied in a whisper, and he'd been looking at the library door as if Annabel, behind it, were the answer to all their prayers. "And if not--I have a plan for that, too." There'd been no chance to ask him what the plan was: Annabel had stepped out of the library, looking fearful and shy. She looked even more fearful now as the hubbub rose around her: Kieran drew some of the fire by stepping up to announce himself as the envoy of the Seelie Queen, sent to speak on the behalf of the Seelie Court to the Council of Shadowhunters. He'd been expected, but there was still a burst of more excited talking. "Put the wards back up," said the Consul, inclining her head to Kieran. Her expression was polite, but the message was clear: Though Kieran was there to help them, all full-blood faeries were still going to be treated with extreme suspicion by the Clave. Mark and Cristina moved to Kieran's side protectively, while Magnus spoke quietly with the Consul. After a moment, she nodded, and gestured at Emma and Julian. "If you want to speak to Robert, go ahead," she said. "But keep it short--the meeting is soon." Emma was unsurprised, as she and Julian headed toward the Gard's offices, to see that Livvy, Ty, Kit, and Dru had flanked Annabel protectively. Ty, especially, had his chin jutting out, his hands in fists. Emma wondered if he felt responsible for Annabel because his letter had brought her to them, or if he felt some kind of kinship for those at odds with the Clave's standards for "normalcy." A door swung open. "You can come in now," said a guard. It was Manuel Villalobos, wearing his Centurion uniform. His start of surprise at seeing them was quickly hidden by a smirk. "An unexpected pleasure," he said. "We're not here to see you," said Julian. "Though nice to know you're opening doors for the Inquisitor these days. Is he here?" "Let them in, Centurion," Robert called, which was all the permission needed for Emma to shove by Manuel and stalk down the hallway. Julian followed her. The short hall ended in the Inquisitor's office. He was sitting behind his desk, looking much the same as he had the last time Emma had seen him at the Los Angeles Institute. A big man only now beginning to show the marks of age--his shoulders were a little hunched, his dark hair woven thickly with gray--Robert Lightwood cut an imposing figure behind his massive mahogany desk. The room was largely unfurnished aside from the desk and two chairs. There was an unlit fireplace, above whose mantel hung one of the series of tapestries on display in the hall outside. This one said THE BATTLE OF THE BURREN. Figures in red clashed with figures in black --Shadowhunters and the Endarkened Ones--and above the melee, a dark-haired archer was visible standing on a tipped boulder, holding a drawn bow and arrow. To anyone who knew him, it was very clearly Alec Lightwood. Emma wondered what thoughts went through Robert Lightwood's mind as he sat each day in his office and looked at the portrait of his son, a hero of a now-famous battle. Pride, of course, but there must also be some wonder, that he had created this person--these people, really, for Isabelle Lightwood was no slouch in the heroics department--who had become so fierce and amazing in their own right. Someday Julian would have that pride, she thought, in Livvy and Ty and Tavvy and Dru. But her parents had never had a chance to feel it. She'd never had a chance to make them proud. She felt the familiar wave of bitterness and resentment, pressing against her heart. Robert gestured for them to be seated. "I hear you wanted to talk to me," he said. "I hope this isn't meant to be some sort of distraction." "Distraction from what?" Emma asked, settling herself into the uncomfortable wing- backed chair. "Whatever you're up to." He sat back. "So what is it?" Emma's heart seemed to flip. Was this a good idea, or a terrible one? It felt as if everything in her had been armoring against this moment, against the idea that she and Julian would have to spread their feelings out under the feet of the Clave for them to tread on. She watched Julian as he leaned forward and began to speak. He seemed absolutely calm as he spoke of his and Emma's early friendship, their affection for each other, their decision to b eparabatai, brought on by the Dark War and the loss of their parents. He made it sound like a reasonable decision--no one's fault--who could have blamed them, any of them? The Dark War had stricken them all with loss. No one could be at fault for overlooking details. For mistaking their feelings. Robert Lightwood's eyes began to widen. He listened in silence as Julian spoke of his and Emma's growing feelings for each other. How they both had realized what they felt separately, struggled in silence, confessed their emotions, and finally decided to seek the Inquisitor's assistance and even the exercise of the Law. "We know we've broken the Law," Julian finished, "but it was not intentional, or under our control. All we want is your help." Robert Lightwood got to his feet. Emma could see the glass towers through his window, glimmering like burning banners. She could hardly believe that just that morning they'd been fighting the Riders in the courtyard of the London Institute. "No one's ever asked me if they could be exiled before," he said, finally. "But you were exiled yourself, once," said Julian. "Yes," Robert said. "With my wife, Maryse, and Alec, when he was a toddler. And for good reason. It's a lonely thing, exile. And for someone as young as Emma..." He glanced at them. "Does anyone else know about you?" "No." Julian's voice was calm and firm. Emma knew he was trying to protect those who had guessed or been told--but it unnerved her anyway, the way he could sound so absolutely sincere when he was lying. "And you're sure? This isn't a crush, or just --parabatai feelings can be very intense." Robert sounded awkward as he clasped his hands behind his back. "They're easy to misconstrue." "We," said Julian, "are absolutely sure." "The usual measure would be separation, not exile." Robert looked from one of them to the other as if he still couldn't quite believe what was in front of him. "But you don't want that. I can see that already. You wouldn't have come to me if you thought I could only offer you the standard measures--separation, stripping of your Marks." "We can't risk breaking the Law, and the punishments that entails." Julian's voice was still calm, but Emma could see his hands, white-knuckled, gripping his chair arms. "My family needs me. My brothers and sisters are still young, and they have no parents. I've raised them and I can't leave them. It's out of the question. But Emma and I know we can't trust ourselves just to stay away from each other." "So you want to be separated by the Clave," said Robert. "You want exile, but you don't want to wait to be caught. You've come to me so you can choose which of you leaves, and for how long, and what punishment the Clave, directed by me, will decide on." "Yes," said Julian. "And though you're not saying it, I think you want some of what exile will do for you," said Robert. "It'll deaden your bond. Maybe you think it'll make it easier for you to stop loving each other." Neither Emma or Julian spoke. He was uncomfortably close to the truth. Julian was expressionless; Emma tried to school her features to match his. Robert was tapping his fingertips together. "We just want to be able to be normal parabatai," said Julian finally, but Emma could hear the silent words beneath the audible ones: We will never give each other up, never. "It's quite something to ask." Emma strained to hear anger or reproach or disbelief in the Inquisitor's voice, but he sounded neutral. It frightened her. "You had a parabatai," she said in desperation. "Didn't you?" "Michael Wayland." Robert's tone was wintry. "He died." "I'm so sorry." Emma had known that, but the sympathy was sincere. She could imagine little more horrible than Julian dying. "I bet he would have wanted you to help us," Julian said. Emma had no idea if he spoke from knowledge of Michael Wayland or just intuition, that skill he had of reading the look in people's eyes, the truth in the way they frowned or smiled. "Michael would have--yes," Robert murmured. "He would have. By the Angel. Exile will be a heavy burden for Emma. I can try to limit the terms of the punishment, but you'll still lose some of your Nephilim powers. You'll need permission to enter Alicante. There will be some Marks you can't use. Seraph blades won't light for you." "I have Cortana," said Emma. "That's all I need." There was sadness in Robert's smile. "If there's a war, you can't fight in it. That's why my exile was lifted--because Valentine returned and began the Mortal War." Julian's expression was so tight that his cheekbones seemed to stand out like knife blades. "We won't accept the exile unless Emma's allowed to keep enough of her Nephilim power to be safe," he said. "If she's hurt because of this exile--" "The exile is your idea," said Robert. "Are you sure you'll be able to fall out of love?" "Yes," Julian lied. "Separation would be the first move, anyway, wouldn't it? We're just asking for a little extra surety." "I've heard things," Robert said. "The Law against parabatai falling in love exists for a reason. I don't know the reason, but my guess is that it's significant. If I thought you knew what it was--" He shook his head. "But you can't possibly. I could speak with the Silent Brothers ...." No, Emma thought. They'd risked so much already, but if Robert learned of the curse, they'd be in very dangerous waters. "Magnus said you would help us," she said, in a soft voice. "He said we could trust you and that you'd understand and keep it secret." Robert looked up at the tapestry that hung over his mantel. At Alec. He touched the Lightwood ring on his finger; a likely unconscious gesture. "I trust Magnus," he said. "And I owe him a great deal." His gaze was distant. Emma wasn't sure if he was thinking about the past or considering the future; she and Julian sat tensely while he considered. Finally, he said, "All right. Give me a few days--the two of you will have to remain in Alicante while I look into managing the exile ceremony, and you must stay in separate houses. I need to see a good faith effort to avoid each other. Is that clear?" Emma swallowed hard. The exile ceremony. She hoped Jem could be there: Silent Brothers were the ones who presided over ceremonies, and even though he no longer was one, he had been at her parabatai ceremony with Julian. If he could be there for this, she would feel a little less alone. She could see Julian's expression: He looked much as she felt, as if relief and dread were warring inside him. "Thank you," he said. "Thank you, Inquisitor," she echoed, and Robert looked surprised. She suspected no one had ever thanked him for a sentence of exile before. Cristina had never been in the Gard's Council Hall before. It was a horseshoe-shaped space, rows of benches marching toward a slightly raised dais; a second balcony level, containing more benches and seats, rose high above. Above the dais hung a huge golden clock, gorgeously made with delicate scrollwork and a repeated Latin phrase, ULTIMA THULE, marching around the rim. Behind the dais was an incredible wall of windows, giving out onto a view of Alicante below. She raised herself a little bit on tiptoe, to see the winding streets, the blue slashes of the canals, the demon towers rising like clear needles against the sky. The Hall was beginning to fill. Annabel and Kieran had been taken to a waiting room, along with Magnus. The rest of them had been allowed in early and had claimed two rows of benches near the front. Ty, Kit, and Livvy were sitting, engaged in conversation. Dru sat quietly on her own, seeming lost in thought. Cristina was about to start toward her when she felt a light tap on her shoulder. It was Mark. He had dressed carefully for the Council visit, and she felt a pang as she looked at him--he was so gorgeous in his pressed, old-fashioned clothes, like a marvelously colored old photograph. The dark jacket and waistcoat fit him well, and he had brushed his blond hair so that it covered the tips of his ears. He had even shaved, and nicked himself slightly on the chin--which was ridiculous because Mark had no facial hair to speak of. He looked to Cristina like a little boy wanting to make a good impression on the first day of school. Her heart went out to him--he cared so much about the good opinion of a group of people who had agreed to abandon him to the Wild Hunt despite the pleas of his family, just because of who he was. "Do you think Kieran will be all right?" Mark said. "They ought to treat an envoy from the Court with more honor. Instead they practically ran to put the wards back up as soon as we arrived." "He'll be fine," Cristina reassured him. Both Kieran and Mark, she thought, were stronger than the other one could believe, maybe because they'd been so vulnerable in the Hunt. "Though I can't imagine Annabel is much of a conversationalist. At least Magnus is with them." Mark gave a strained smile as a low murmur swept through the room. The Centurions had arrived in full dress. They wore their uniforms of red, gray, and silver, with their silver pins on display. Each carried a staff of solid adamas. Cristina recognized some from Los Angeles, like Zara's friend Samantha, with her thin, nasty face, and Rayan, looking around the room with an expression of concern. Zara led the procession, her head held high, her mouth a slash of bright red. Her lips curled in distaste as she passed Mark and Cristina. But why wasn't Diego beside her? Had he not come with them? But no, there he was, almost at the end of the line, looking gray and tired, but definitely present. He paused in front of Mark and Cristina as the other Centurions passed by. "I got your message," he said to Cristina, in a low voice. "If it's what you want--" "What message?" Mark said. "What's going on?" Zara appeared at Diego's side. "A reunion," she said. "How nice." She smiled at Cristina. "I'm sure you'll all be pleased to hear how well everything went in Los Angeles after you left." "Very impressive of you, killing Malcolm," said Mark. His eyes were flat and glittering. "It seems to have resulted in quite a bit of advancement. Well-earned, I'm sure." "Thank you." Zara laughed breathlessly, laying her hand on Diego's arm. "Oh," she said, with a sharply artificial enthusiasm. "Look!" More Shadowhunters had entered the room. They were a mix of ages, from old to young. Some wore Centurion uniforms. Most wore gear or ordinary clothes. What was unusual about them was that they were carrying placards and signs. REGISTER ALL WARLOCKS. DOWNWORLDERS MUST BE CONTROLLED. PRAISE THE COLD PEACE. APPROVE THE REGISTRY. Among them was a stolid brown-haired man with a bland sort of face, the kind of face where you could never really remember the features later. He winked at Zara. "My father," she said proudly. "The Registry was his idea." "What interesting signs," said Mark. "How wonderful to see people expressing their political views," said Zara. "Of course the Cold Peace has truly created a generation of revolutionaries." "It is unusual," said Cristina, "for a revolution to call for fewer rights for people, not more." For a moment Zara's mask slipped, and Cristina saw through the artifice of politeness, the breathy little-girl voice and demeanor. There was something cold behind it all, something without warmth or empathy or affection. "People," she said. "What people?" Diego took hold of her arm. "Zara," he said. "Let's go sit down." Mark and Cristina watched them go in silence. "I hope Julian's right," Livvy said, staring at the empty dais. "He usually is," Ty said. "Not about everything, but about this sort of thing." Kit sat between the twins, which meant they were talking over him. He wasn't entirely sure how he'd ended up in this position. Not that he minded or even noticed at the moment. He was stunned into near silence--something that never happened--by where he was: in Alicante, the heart of the Shadowhunters' country, gazing at the legendary demon towers. He'd fallen in love with Idris at first sight. He hadn't expected that at all. It was like walking into a fairy tale. And not the sort he'd grown used to at the Shadow Market, where faeries were another kind of monster. The kind he'd seen on TV and in books when he was little, a world of magnificent castles and lush forests. Livvy winked at Kit. "You've got that look on your face." "What look?" "You're impressed by Idris. Admit it, Mr. Nothing Impresses Me." Kit was going to do no such thing. "I like the clock," he said, pointing up at it. "There's a legend about that clock." She wiggled her eyebrows at him. "For a second, when it chimes the hour, the gates to Heaven open." Livvy sighed; a rare wistfulness flashed across her face. "As far as I'm concerned, Heaven is just the Institute being ours again. And all of us going home." That surprised Kit; he'd been thinking of this trip to Idris as the end of their chaotic adventure. They'd return to Los Angeles and he'd start his training. But Livvy was right: Things weren't that assured. He glanced over at Zara and her immediate circle, bristling with their ugly signs. "There's still the Black Volume, too," said Ty. He looked formal and neat-haired in a way he didn't usually; Kit was used to him being casual in his hoodies and jeans, and handsome, older-looking Ty left him a bit tongue-tied. "The Queen still wants it." "Annabel will give it to Jules. I believe in his ability to charm anything out of anyone," Livvy said. "Or trick anything out of anyone. But yeah, I wish they didn't have to actually meet with the Queen afterwards. I don't like the sound of her." "I think there's a saying about this," said Kit. "Something about bridges and crossing them when you get there." Ty had gone rigid, like a hunting dog spotting a fox. "Livvy." His sister followed his gaze, and so did Kit. Coming toward them through the crowd was Diana, a smile breaking across her face, her koi fish tattoo shimmering across one dark cheekbone. With her were two young women in their early twenties. One resembled Jia Penhallow more than a little; she also had dark hair and a decided chin. The other looked incredibly like Mark Blackthorn, down to the curling, pale blond hair and pointed ears. They were both bundled in unseasonably warm clothes, as if they'd come from a cold climate. Kit realized who they were a moment before Livvy's face lit like the sun. "Helen!" she screamed, and bolted into her sister's arms. The clock in the Council Hall was chiming through the Gard, signaling that all Nephilim were to gather for the meeting. Robert Lightwood had insisted on leading Julian from his office to the room where Magnus, Kieran, and Annabel were waiting. Unfortunately for Emma, that meant she was stuck with Manuel as her escort to the Council Hall. Emma had wished she could have a moment alone with Julian, but it wasn't going to happen. They exchanged a wry look before going their separate ways. "Looking forward to the meeting?" Manuel asked. He had his hands in his pockets. His dirty-blond hair was artfully tousled. Emma was surprised he wasn't whistling. "No one looks forward to meetings," said Emma. "They're a necessary evil." "Oh, I wouldn't say no one," said Manuel. "Zara loves meetings." "She seems in favor of all forms of torture," Emma muttered. Manuel spun around, walking backward down the corridor. They were in one of the larger hallways that had been built after the Gard burned in the Dark War. "You ever thought about becoming a Centurion?" he said. Emma shook her head. "They don't let you have a parabatai." "I always figured that was kind of a pity thing, you and Julian Blackthorn," said Manuel. "I mean, look at you. You're hot, you're skilled, you're a Carstairs. Julian--he spends all his time with little kids. He's an old man at seventeen." Emma wondered what would happen if she threw Manuel through a window. Probably it would delay the meeting. "I'm just saying. Even if you don't want to go to the Scholomance, the Cohort could use someone like you. We're the future. You'll see." His eyes glittered. For a moment, they weren't amused or joking. It was the glitter of real fanaticism, and it made Emma feel hollow inside. They had reached the doors of the Council Hall. There was no one in view; Emma kicked her leg out and swept Manuel's feet out from under him. He went over in a blur and hit the ground; he pushed up instantly on his elbows, looking furious. She doubted she'd hurt him, except maybe where his dignity was located--which had been the point. "I appreciate your offer," she said, "but if joining the Cohort means I have to spend my life stuck halfway up a mountain with a bunch of fascists, I'll take living in the past." She heard him hiss something not very nice in Spanish as she stepped over him and walked into the Hall. She reminded herself to ask Cristina for a translation when she got a chance. "You don't need to be here, Julian," said Jia firmly. They were in a massive room whose picture window gave out onto views of Brocelind Forest. It was a surprisingly fancy room--Julian had always thought of the Gard as a place of dark stone and heavy wood. This room had brocade wallpaper and gilt furniture upholstered in velvet. Annabel sat in a wing-backed armchair, looking ill at ease. Magnus was leaning against a wall, seemingly bored. He looked exhausted, too--the shadows under his eyes were nearly black. And Kieran stood by the picture window, his attention fixed on the sky and the trees outside. "I would like him to be with me," said Annabel. "He is the reason I came." "We all appreciate that you're here, Annabel," said Jia. "And we appreciate that you had past bad experiences with the Clave." She sounded calm. Julian wondered if she'd have sounded so calm if she'd seen Annabel rise from the dead, covered in blood, and stab Malcolm through the heart. Kieran turned away from the window. "We know Julian Blackthorn," he said to Jia. He sounded much more human to Julian than he had when they'd first met, as if his Faerie accent was fading. "We don't know you." "By which you mean you and Annabel?" Jia said. Kieran made an expressive faerie gesture that seemed to encompass the room in general. "I am here because I am the messenger of the Queen," he said. "Annabel Blackthorn is here for her own reasons. And Magnus is here as he puts up with all of you because of Alec. But do not think that makes it a good idea for you to order us around." "Annabel is a Shadowhunter," Robert began. "And I am a prince of Faerie," said Kieran. "Son of the King, Prince of the Frost Court, Keeper of the Cold Way, Wild Hunter, and Sword of the Host. Do not annoy me." Magnus cleared his throat. "He has a point." "About Alec?" said Robert, raising an eyebrow. "More generally," said Magnus. "Kieran is a Downworlder. Annabel suffered a fate worse than death at the Clave's hands because she cared for Downworlders. Out there in the Council Hall is the Cohort. Today is their grab for power. Preventing them from taking it is more important than rules about where Julian should or shouldn't be standing." Jia looked at Magnus for a moment. "And you?" she said, surprisingly gently. "You're a Downworlder, Bane." Magnus gave a slow, tired shrug. "Oh," he said. "Me, I'm--" The glass he was holding slipped out of his hand. It hit the floor and broke, and a moment later Magnus followed it. He seemed to fold up like paper, his head striking the stone with an ugly thump. Julian lunged forward, but Robert had already grabbed him by the arm. "Go to the Council Hall," he said. Jia was kneeling next to Magnus, her hand on his shoulder. "Get Alec." He turned Julian free, and Julian ran. Emma fought her way through the Council Hall in a state of numb horror. Any pleasure she'd felt over knocking Manuel on his butt had dissolved. The whole room seemed to be a whirlwind of ugly shouting and waving signs: MAKE THE CLAVE PURE and WEREWOLF CONTAINMENT IS THE ANSWER and KEEP DOWNWORLDERS CONTROLLED. She pushed past a knot of people, Zara at the center, heard someone saying, "Can't believe you had to kill that monster Malcolm Fade yourself, after the Clave failed!" There was a chorus of agreement. "Shows what comes of letting warlocks do what they like," said someone else. "They're too powerful. It doesn't make practical sense." Most of the faces in the room were unfamiliar to Emma. She should have known more of them, she thought, but the Blackthorns had lived a life of isolation in their way, rarely leaving the L.A. Institute. Among the cluster of unfamiliar faces, she caught sight of Diana, tall and regal as always. She was striding through the crowd, and hurrying along in her wake were two familiar figures. Aline and Helen, both of them pink-cheeked, wrapped in massive coats and shawls. They must have just arrived from Wrangel Island. Now Emma could see the rest of the Blackthorns--Livvy, Ty, and Dru were spilling out of the seats, running to Helen, who bent down to open her arms and gather them all in, hugging them tightly. Helen was brushing back Dru's hair, hugging the twins, tears sliding down her face. Mark was there too, striding toward his sister, and Emma watched with a smile as they threw their arms around each other. In a way, it hurt--she would never have that with her parents, never hug them or squeeze their hands again--but it was a good sort of pain. Mark lifted his sister off her feet, and Aline watched smiling as the two embraced. "Manuel Villalobos is limping," said Cristina. She had come up behind Emma and wrapped her arms around her from behind, resting her chin on her friend's shoulder. "Did you do that?" "I might have," Emma murmured. She heard Cristina giggle. "He was trying to talk me into joining the Cohort." She turned around and squeezed Cristina's hand. "We're going to take them down. They won't win. Right?" She glanced at Cristina's pendant. "Tell me the Angel is on our side." Cristina shook her head. "I am worried," she said. "Worried for Mark, for Helen--and for Kieran." "Kieran's a witness for the Clave. The Cohort can't touch him." "He's a prince of Faerie. Everything they hate. And I do not think I realized, until we arrived here, how much they hate. They will not want him to speak, and they will absolutely not want the Council to listen." "That's why we're here to make them listen," Emma began, but Cristina was looking past her, a startled expression on her face. Emma turned to see Diego, miraculously without Zara, beckoning to Cristina from an empty row of seats. "I must go and talk to him," Cristina said. She squeezed Emma's shoulder, looking suddenly hopeful. Emma wished her luck and Cristina disappeared into the crowd, leaving Emma looking around for Julian. She didn't see her parabatai anywhere. But what she did see was a tight group of Shadowhunters, Mark among them, and the sudden silver flash of weapons. Samantha Larkspear had pulled a wicked-looking blade. Emma headed toward the raised voices, her hand already reaching for Cortana's hilt. Mark loved all his brothers and sisters, none more than the others. Still, Helen was special. She was like him --half-faerie, drawn to its temptations. Helen even claimed she could remember their mother, Nerissa, though Mark couldn't. He set Helen down on her feet, ruffling her pale hair. Her face--she looked different, older. Not in lines around her eyes or coarsening skin, just in a certain cast of her features. He wondered if she had named the stars through the years, as he did: Julian, Tiberius, Livia, Drusilla, Octavian. And she would have added another, that he never had: Mark. "I would speak to you," he said. "Of Nene, our mother's sister." An echo of faerie formality was in her voice when she replied. "Diana told me you met her in Faerie. I knew of her, but not where she could be found. We should speak of her, and of other matters as pressing." She looked up at him and sighed, touching her hand to his cheek. "Such as when you got so tall." "I think it happened when I was in the Hunt. Should I apologize?" "Not at all. I was worried--" She stepped back to look at him quizzically. "I think I may owe Kieran Kingson some thanks for his care of you." "As I owe Aline, for her care of you." Helen smiled at that. "She is the light of my days." She glanced up at the large clock over the dais. "We have little time now, Mark. If all goes as we hope, we will have forever to confer with one another. But either way, Aline and I will remain this night in Alicante, and from what Jia says, so will you. It will give us a chance to talk." "That depends how tonight goes, doesn't it?" A sharp voice interrupted them. It was Samantha Larkspear. Mark vaguely remembered that she had a brother who looked a great deal like her. She wore Centurion gear and carried a placard that said THE ONLY GOOD FAERIE IS A DEAD faerie. There was a blob of what looked like black paint at the bottom of the sign. "Pithy," Mark said. But Helen had paled with shock, staring at the words on the placard. "After this afternoon's vote, if scum like you are allowed in Alicante, I'd be very surprised," Samantha said. "Enjoy it while you can." "You're talking to the wife of the Consul's daughter," said Aline, her nostrils flaring. "Watch your mouth, Samantha Larkspear." Samantha made an odd, gulping, hissing noise, and reached for her weapons belt, flashing a dagger with a thick knuckle-guard hilt. Mark could see her brother, pale and black- haired as she was, pushing toward them through the crowd. Helen had her hand on the seraph blade in her belt. Moving instinctively, Mark reached for the blade at his own hip, tensed for violence. Kit looked up when Julian's hand fell on his shoulder. He'd been slouching in his chair, mostly looking at Alicante through the big glass window behind the wooden stagelike thing at the front of the room. He'd been deliberately not looking at Livvy and Ty greeting their sister. Something about the tight knot of Blackthorns hugging and exclaiming over each other reminded him exactly how much he wasn't one of them in a way he hadn't been reminded since Los Angeles. "Your sister's here," he said to Julian. He pointed. "Helen." Julian glanced over at his siblings briefly; Kit had the feeling he already knew. He looked tense and sparking at the edges, like snapped electrical wire. "I need you to do something," he said. "Alec's guarding the east doors to the Hall. Go find him and bring him to Magnus. Tell him Magnus is in the Consul's guest quarters; he'll know where that is." Kit swung his legs off the chair in front of him. "Why?" "Just trust me." Julian stood up. "Make it look like it's your idea, like you need Alec to show you something or help you find someone. I don't want anyone's curiosity stirred up." "You're not really thinking about fighting in the middle of the Council Hall, are you?" said Emma. "I mean, considering that would be illegal and all that." She clicked her tongue against her teeth. "Not a good idea, Samantha. Put that dagger away." The small group--Helen, Aline, Mark, and Samantha--turned to stare at Emma as if she'd appeared in a puff of smoke. They'd all been too angry to notice her approach. The gold clock overhead began to chime urgently. The crowd started to unknot itself, Shadowhunters searching for empty seats in the rows facing the dais. Dane Larkspear, who'd been coming toward his sister, had halted in the middle of an aisle; Emma saw to her surprise that Manuel was blocking his way. Maybe Manuel didn't think a Centurion brawling on the floor of the Council Hall would be a great idea either. Zara was looking over too, her red mouth set in an angry line. "You don't get to pull rank on me, Aline Penhallow," said Samantha, but she shoved her dagger back into its sheath. "Not when you're married to that--that thing." "Did you draw that?" Emma interrupted, pointing at the blobby sketch on Samantha's placard. "Is that supposed to be a dead faerie?" She was pretty sure it was. The sketch had arms and legs and dragonfly wings, sort of. "Impressive," said Emma. "You've got talent, Samantha. Real talent." Samantha looked surprised. "You think so?" "God, no," said Emma. "Now go and sit down. Zara's waving at you." Samantha hesitated and then turned away. Emma grabbed hold of Helen's hand. She started to walk toward the long bench where the Blackthorns were seated. Her heart was thumping. Not that Samantha was much danger, but if they'd started something, and the rest of Zara's friends had joined in, it could have been a real fight. Aline and Mark were on either side of them. Helen's fingers curled around Emma's arm. "I remember this," she said in a low voice. Her fingertips brushed the scar that Cortana had made years ago, when Emma had clutched the blade to her body after her parents' death. It was Helen who had been there when Emma woke up in a world where her parents were gone forever, though it was Julian who had placed the sword in Emma's arms. But now Cortana was strapped to her back. Now was their chance to right the wrongs of the past--the wrongs done to Helen and Mark and those like them by the Clave, the wrong the Clave had done to the Carstairs in ignoring their deaths. It made the knowledge that she would soon be exiled hurt even more, the thought that she would not be with the Blackthorns when they were reunited. They sped up as they got close to the other Blackthorns, and there was Julian, standing among his siblings. His eyes met Emma's. She could see even across the distance between them that his had turned nearly black. She knew without having to ask: Something was very wrong. Alec Lightwood was very hard to keep up with. He was older than Kit, and he had longer legs, and he'd taken off flat-out running the moment Kit told him that Magnus needed him. Kit wasn't sure their cover story that he wanted Alec to show him around the Gard was going to hold up if anyone stopped them. But no one did; the loud chiming was still sounding, and everyone was hurrying toward the main Council Hall. When they burst into the high-ceilinged Consul's quarters, they found Magnus lying on a long sofa. Kieran and Annabel were at opposite ends of the room, staring like cats just introduced to a new environment. Jia and Robert stood by the sofa; Alec started toward it, and his father moved to put a hand on his shoulder. Alec stopped where he was, his whole body tense. "Let me go," he said. "He's fine," said Robert. "Brother Enoch was just here. His magic's depleted and he's weak, but--" "I know what's wrong with him," Alec said, pushing past the Inquisitor. Robert watched his son as Alec knelt down by the side of the long couch. He brushed Magnus's hair back from his forehead, and the warlock stirred and murmured. "He hasn't been well for a while," said Alec, half to himself. "His magic gets depleted so fast. I told him to go to the Spiral Labyrinth, but there hasn't been time." Kit stared. He'd heard of Magnus even before he'd met him, of course; Magnus was famous in Downworld. And when he had met Magnus, the warlock had been so full of kinetic energy, a whirl of dry wit and blue fire. It hadn't even occurred to him that Magnus might get sick or tired. "Isn't there any way to make him better?" said Annabel. She was vibrating with tension, her hands working at her sides. He noticed for the first time that she was missing a finger on her right hand. He hadn't looked at her too closely before. She gave him the creeps. "I--I need him." Admirably, Alec didn't lose his temper. "He needs rest," he said. "We could delay the meeting--" "Alec, we can't." Jia spoke gently. "Obviously Magnus should rest. Annabel, you'll be taken care of. I promise." "No." Annabel shrank back against the wall. "I want Magnus with me. Or Julian. Get Julian." "What's going on?" Kit recognized her voice even before he turned to see Zara in the doorway. Her lipstick looked like a harsh slash of blood against her pale skin. She was looking at Magnus, the corner of her mouth twisted in a smirk. "Consul," she said, and bowed to Jia. "Everyone is assembled. Should I tell them the meeting will be delayed?" "No, Miss Dearborn," said Jia, smoothing down her embroidered robe. "Thank you, but we don't need you to handle this for us. The assembly will go as planned." "Dearborn," Annabel echoed. Her gaze was fixed on Zara. Her eyes had gone flat and glittering like a snake's. "You're a Dearborn." Zara looked merely puzzled, as if wondering who Annabel might be. "Zara is quite an advocate for restricting the rights of Downworlders," Jia said neutrally. "We're interested in safety," Zara said, clearly stung. "That's all." "We had better go," said Robert Lightwood. He was still looking at Alec, but Alec wasn't looking at him; he was sitting by Magnus, his hand against Magnus's cheek. "Alec, if you need me, send for me." "I'll send Kit," Alec said, without looking around. "I'll return for you," Robert said to Kieran, who had remained silently by the window, barely a shadow in the room's shadows. Kieran nodded. Robert squeezed Alec's shoulder briefly. Jia extended a hand to Annabel, and after a moment of staring at Zara, Annabel followed the Consul and the Inquisitor from the room. "Is he sick?" Zara said, looking at Magnus with a distant interest. "I didn't think warlocks got sick. Wouldn't it be funny if he died before you? I mean, what with him being immortal, you must have thought it would go the other way." Alec raised his head slowly. "What'?" "Well, I mean since Magnus is immortal and you, you know, aren't," she clarified. "He's immortal?" Alec's voice was colder than Kit had ever heard it. "I wish you'd told me before. I would have turned back time and found myself a nice mortal husband to grow old with." "Well, wouldn't that be better?" Zara said. "Then you could get old and die at the same time." "At the same time?" Alec echoed. He had barely moved or raised his voice, but his rage seemed to fill the room. Even Zara was starting to look uneasy. "How would you suggest we arrange that? Jump off a cliff together when one of us started feeling sickly?" "Maybe." Zara looked sulky. "You have to agree the situation you're in is a tragedy." Alec rose to his feet and in that moment was the famous Alec Lightwood Kit had heard about, the hero of past battles, the archer boy with deadly aim. "This is what I want and what I've chosen," he said. "How dare you tell me it's a tragedy? Magnus never pretended, he never tried to fool me into thinking it would be easy, but choosing Magnus is one of the easiest things I've ever done. We all have a lifetime, Zara, and none of us know how long or short it might be. Surely even you know that. I expect you mean to be rude and cruel, but I doubt you meant to sound stupid as well." She flushed. "But if you die of old age and he lives forever--" "Then he'll be there for Max, and that makes both of us happy," said Alec. "And I will be a uniquely lucky person, because there will be someone who always remembers me. Who will always love me. Magnus won't always mourn, but until the end of time he will remember me and love me." "What makes you so sure?" said Zara, but there was an edge of uncertainty in her voice. "Because he's three thousand times the human being you'll ever be," said Alec. "Now get out of here before I risk his life by waking him up so he can turn you into a garbage fire. Something that would match your personality." "Oh!" said Zara. "So rude!" Kit thought it was more than rude. He thought Alec meant it. He kind of hoped Zara would stick around to test the theory. Instead she stalked toward the door and paused there, glancing back at them both with dislike. "Come on, Alec," she said. "The truth is that Shadowhunters and Downworlders aren't meant to be together. You and Bane are a disgrace. But you can't just be content with the Clave letting you pervert your angelic lineage. No, you have to force it on the rest of us." "Really?" said Kieran, who Kit had nearly forgotten was there. "You all have to sleep with Magnus Bane? How exciting for you." "Shut up, faerie dirt," said Zara. "You'll learn. You've picked the wrong side, you and those Blackthorns and Jace Herondale and that ginger bitch Clary--" She was breathing hard, her face flushed. "I'll enjoy watching you all go down," she said, and flounced from the room. "Did she really say 'pervert your angelic lineage'?" said Alec, looking stupefied. "Faerie dirt," mused Kieran. "That is, as Mark would say, a new one." "Unbelievable." Alec sat down next to the sofa again, drawing up his knees. "Nothing she said surprised me," said Kieran. "That is how they are. That is how the Cold Peace has made them. Afraid of what is new and different, and filled with hatred like ice. She may seem ridiculous, Zara Dearborn, but do not make the mistake of underestimating her and her Cohort." He looked back at the window. "Hate like that can tear down the world." "This is a very strange request," said Diego. "You're the one in a fake relationship," said Cristina. "I am sure you've been asked for stranger things." Diego laughed, not with much humor. They were sitting a row away from the Blackthorns in the Council Hall. The clock had stopped chiming to announce the meeting's beginning and the room was full, though the dais was still empty. "I am glad Jaime told you," he said. "Selfishly. I could bear that you hated me, but not that you despised me." Cristina sighed. "I am not sure I ever really did despise you," she said. "I should have told you more," he said. "I wanted to keep you safe--and I denied to myself that the Cohort and their plans were your problem. I didn't know they had designs on the Los Angeles Institute until too late. And I was mistaken in Manuel, as much as anyone. I trusted him." "I know," Cristina said. "It is not that I blame you for anything. I--for such a long time, we were Cristina-and-Diego. A pair, together. And when that was over, I felt half myself. When you came back, I thought we could be as we were before, and I tried, but--" "You don't love me like that anymore," he finished. She paused for a moment. "No," she said. "I don't. Not like that. It was like trying to return to a place in your childhood you remember as perfect. It will always have changed, because you have changed." Diego's Adam's apple moved as he swallowed. "I can't blame you. I don't like myself much right now." "Maybe this could help you like yourself a little more. It would be a great kindness, Diego." He shook his head. "Trust you, I suppose, to take pity on a lost faerie." "It isn't pity," said Cristina. She glanced back over her shoulder; Zara had left the room some moments earlier and hadn't returned yet. Samantha was glaring at her, though, apparently in the belief that Cristina was trying to steal Zara's fiance. "They frighten me. They will kill him after he testifies." "The Cohort is frightening," Diego said. "But the Cohort is not the Centurions, and not all Centurions are like Zara. Rayan, Divya, Gen are good people. Like the Clave, it is an organization that has a cancer at its heart. Some of the body is sick and some healthy. Our mission is to discover a way to kill the sickness without killing all of the body." The doors of the Council Hall opened. The Consul, Jia Penhallow, entered, her silver- flecked dark robes sweeping around her. The room, which had been full of lively chatter, sank to hushed murmurs. Cristina sat back as the Consul began to climb the stairs to the dais. "Thank you all for coming on such short notice, Nephilim." The Consul stood in front of a low wooden podium, its base decorated with the sigil of four Cs. There was gray in her black hair now that Emma didn't remember seeing before, wrinkles at the corners of her eyes. It couldn't be easy, being the Consul during a time of unspoken war. "Most of you know about Malcolm Fade. He was one of our closest allies, or so we thought. He betrayed us some weeks ago, and even now we are still learning of the bloody and terrible crimes he committed." The murmur that went around the room sounded to Emma like the rush of the tide. She wished Julian was next to her so that she could bump his shoulder with hers, or squeeze his hand, but--mindful of the Inquisitor's instruction--they had sat at the opposite end of the long bench after he'd told her Magnus had collapsed. "I promised Annabel Magnus would be with her," he'd said in a low voice, not wanting the younger Blackthorns to hear and be panicked. "I gave my word." "You couldn't have guessed. Poor Magnus. There was no way to know he was sick." But she remembered herself, saying, Don't promise what you can't deliver. And she felt cold, all over. "There is a longer story to Fade's betrayal, one you might not know," Jia said. "In 1812 he fell in love with a Shadowhunter girl, Annabel Blackthorn. Her family deplored the idea of her marrying a warlock. In the end, she was murdered--by other Nephilim. Malcolm was told she had become an Iron Sister." "Why didn't they kill him, too?" called someone from the crowd. "He was a powerful warlock. A valuable asset," said Jia. "In the end it was decided to leave him alone. But when he discovered what had actually happened to Annabel, he lost his mind. This past century he has spent seeking revenge against Shadowhunters." "My lady." It was Zara, upright and very prim; she'd just come in through the Hall doors and was standing in the aisle. "You tell us this story as if you mean for us to have sympathy for the girl and the warlock. But Malcolm Fade was a monster. A murderer. Some girl's infatuation with him doesn't excuse what he did." "I find," said Jia, "that there is a difference between an excuse and an explanation." "Then why are we being treated to this explanation? The warlock is dead. I hope this is not some attempt to wring reparations out of the Council. No one associated with that monster deserves any recompense for his death." Jia's look was like the edge of a blade. "I understand that you've been very active in Council affairs lately, Zara," she said. "That does not mean you can interrupt the Consul. Go and sit down." After a moment, Zara sat, looking angry. Aline pumped her fist. "Go, Mom," she whispered. However, someone else had risen up to take Zara's place. Her father. "Consul," he said. "We're not ignorant; we were told this meeting would involve significant testimony by a witness that would impact the Clave. Isn't it about time you brought that witness out? If indeed, they exist?" "Oh, she exists," Jia said. "It is Annabel. Annabel Blackthorn." Now the murmur that went through the room sounded like the crash of a wave. A moment later Robert Lightwood appeared, wearing a grim expression. Behind him came two guards, and between them walked Annabel. Annabel seemed quite small as she came up on the dais beside the Inquisitor. The Black Volume was hanging from a strap over her back, which made her look even younger, like a girl on her way to school. A hiss went through the room. Undead, Emma heard, and Unclean. Annabel shrank back against Robert. "This is an outrage," sputtered Zara's father. "Did we not all suffer enough from the corrosive filth of the Endarkened? Must you bring this thing in front of us?" Julian sprang to his feet. "The Endarkened were not undead," he said, turning to face the Hall. "They were Turned by the Infernal Cup. Annabel is exactly who she was in life. She was tortured by Malcolm, kept in a half-alive state for years. She wants to help us." "Julian Blackthorn," sneered Dearborn. "My daughter told me about you--your uncle was mad, your whole family's mad, only a madman would find this a good idea--" "Do not," said Annabel, and her voice rang out clear and strong, "speak that way to him. He is my blood kin." "Blackthorns," said Dearborn. "Seems they're all mad, dead, or both!" If he'd expected a laugh, he didn't get one. The room was silent. "Sit," the Consul said to Dearborn coldly. "It appears your family has an issue with the way Nephilim are meant to comport themselves. Interrupt me again and you'll be thrown out of the Hall." Dearborn sat, but his eyes gleamed with rage. He wasn't the only one. Emma scanned the room quickly and saw clusters of hateful glares directed at the dais. She choked back her nerves; Julian had pushed his way into the aisle and was standing facing the front of the room. "Annabel," he said, his voice low and encouraging. "Tell them about the King." "The Unseelie King," Annabel said softly. "The Lord of Shadows. He was in league with Malcolm. It is important you all know this, because even now, he plans the destruction of all Shadowhunter s. " "But the Fair Folk are weak!" A man in an embroidered gandora was on his feet, dark eyes sparking with concern. Cristina murmured into Emma's ear that he was the head of the Marrakech Institute. "Years of the Cold Peace have weakened them. The King cannot hope to stand against us." "Not in a clash of equal armies, no," Annabel said in her small voice. "But the King has harnessed the power of the Black Volume, and he has learned how to destroy the power of the Nephilim. How to cancel out runes, seraph blades, and witchlight. You would be fighting his forces with no more power than mundanes--" "This absolutely cannot be true!" It was a thin, dark-haired man Emma remembered from the long-ago discussion of the Cold Peace. Lazio Balogh, head of the Budapest Institute. "She is lying." "She has no reason to lie!" Diana was on her feet now too, her shoulders set back in a fighting stance. "Lazio, of all the people--" "Miss Wrayburn." The Hungarian man's expression hardened. "I think we all know you should recuse yourself from the discussion." Diana froze. "You fraternize with faeries," he went on, smacking his lips as he spoke. "You've been observed." "Oh, by the Angel, Lazio," said the Consul. "Diana has nothing to do with this other than having the bad fortune to disagree with you!" "Lazio's right," said Horace Dearborn. "The Blackthorns are faerie sympathizers, betrayers of the Law--" "But we're not liars," said Julian. His voice was steel edged in ice. Dearborn took the bait. "What's that supposed to mean?" "Your daughter didn't kill Malcolm Fade," said Julian. "Annabel did." Zara popped to her feet like a puppet jerked upward on strings. "That's a lie!" she shrieked. "It is not a lie," said Annabel. "Malcolm raised me from the dead. He used the blood of Arthur Blackthorn to do it. And for that, and for his torture and abandonment of me, I killed him." Now the room exploded. Shouts echoed off the walls. Samantha and Dane Larkspear were on their feet, shaking their fists. Horace Dearborn was roaring that Annabel was a liar, that all Blackthorns were. "Enough!" shouted Jia. "Silence!" "La Spada Mortale." A small olive-skinned woman rose from a place near the back. She wore a plain dress, but her thick necklace sparkled with jewels. Her hair was a deep gray, worn nearly to her hips, and her voice carried enough authority to cut through the noise in the room. "What did you say, Chiara?" Jia demanded. Emma knew her name--Chiara Malatesta, head of the Rome Institute in Italy. "The Mortal Sword," said Chiara. "If there is a question of whether this person--if that's what she can be called--is telling the truth, ply her with Maellartach. Then we can dispense with pointless arguments about whether she's lying." "No." Annabel's eyes darted around the room in a panic. "Not the Sword--" "See, she's lying," said Dane Larkspear. "She fears the Sword will reveal the truth!" "She fears the Sword because she was tortured by the Council!" Julian said. He started toward the dais, but two of the Council guards seized him, holding him back. Emma started to rise, but Helen pressed her firmly back into her seat. "Not yet," Helen whispered. "It will make things worse--she has to at least try--" But Emma's heart was racing. Julian was still being restrained from approaching the dais. Every nerve in her body was shrieking as Robert Lightwood moved away and returned carrying something long and sharp and silver. Something that gleamed like dark water. She saw-- she felt --Julian inhale sharply; he had held the Mortal Sword himself before and knew the pain it caused. "Don't do this!" he said, but his voice was drowned in the swell of other voices, the clamor in the room as various Shadowhunters rose to their feet, craning for a glimpse of what was going on. "She's a filthy undead creature!" Zara shouted. "She should be put out of her misery, not standing up in front of the Council!" Annabel blanched. Emma could feel Julian's tension, knew what he was thinking: If Magnus were here, Magnus could explain: Annabel was not a revenant. She had been brought back to life. She was a living Shadowhunter. Magnus was a Downworlder that the Clave trusted, one of the few. None of this would be happening if he'd been able to join the meeting. Magnus, Emma thought, oh Magnus, I hope you're all right. I wish you were with us. "The Sword will determine Annabel's fitness to give testimony," Jia said in a hard voice that carried to the back of the room. "That is the Law. Stand back and let the Mortal Sword work." The crowd fell silent. The Mortal Instruments were the highest power the Shadowhunters knew outside of the Angel himself. Even Zara closed her mouth. "Take your time," Robert said to Annabel. The compassion in his face surprised Emma. She remembered him forcing the blade into Julian's hands, and Julian had been only twelve. She had been angry with Robert for a long time after that, though Julian didn't appear to bear a grudge. Annabel was panting like a frightened rabbit. She looked at Julian, who gave her an encouraging nod, and reached her hands out slowly. When she took the Sword, a shudder went through her body, as if she'd touched an electric fence. Her face tensed--but she held the sword unharmed. Jia exhaled with visible relief. The Sword had proved it--Annabel was a Shadowhunter. The Hall remained silent, as everyone stared. Both the Consul and the Inquisitor stepped back, giving Annabel space. She stood in the center of the dais, a lonely figure in an ill-fitting dress. "What is your name?" Robert asked her, his tone deceptively mild. "Annabel Callisto Blackthorn." She spoke between quick breaths. "And who are you standing on this dais with?" Her blue-green eyes darted desperately between them. "I don't know you," she breathed. "You are Consul and Inquisitor--but not the ones I knew. You are clearly a Lightwood, but..." She shook her head before her face brightened. "Robert," she said. "Julian called you Robert." Samantha Larkspear laughed derisively, and several of the other placard-bearers joined her. "There isn't enough left of her brain to give decent evidence!" "Be silent!" thundered Jia. "Miss Blackthorn, you knew--you were the lover of Malcolm Fade, High Warlock of Los Angeles?" "He was only a warlock when I knew him, of no rank." Annabel's voice shook. "Please. Ask me if I killed him. I can't stand much more of this." "What we discuss here is not your choice." Jia didn't seem angry, but Annabel visibly flinched. "This is a mistake," Livvy whispered to Emma. "They need to just ask her about Malcolm and end this. They can't make this into an interrogation." "It'll be fine," Emma said. "It will." But her heart was racing. The other Blackthorns were watching with visible tension. On her other side, Emma could see Helen, gripping the arms of her seat. Aline was rubbing her shoulder. "Ask her," Julian said. "Just ask her, Jia." "Julian. Enough," Jia said, but she turned to Annabel, her dark eyes expectant. "Annabel Callisto Blackthorn. Did you kill Malcolm Fade?" "Yes." Hate crystallized Annabel's voice, strengthened it. "I cut him open. I watched him bleed to death. Zara Dearborn did nothing. She has been lying to you all." A gasp ran around the room. For a moment Julian relaxed, and the guards who had been holding him released their grips. Zara, red-faced, gaped from the crowd. Thank the Angel, Emma thought. They'll have to listen now. Annabel faced the room, the Sword in her hand, and for that moment Emma could see what Malcolm must have fallen in love with. She looked proud, delighted, beautiful. Something sailed past her head and smashed into the lectern. A bottle, Emma thought-- glass shattered outward from it. There was a gasp, and then a giggle, and then other objects began flying through the air--the crowd seemed to be flinging whatever they had to hand. Not the whole crowd, Emma realized. It was the Cohort and their supporters. There weren't that many of them--but there were enough. And their hate was bigger than the whole room. Emma met Julian's eyes; she saw the despair in his. They had expected better. Even after everything that they'd been through, they'd expected better, somehow. It was true that many Shadowhunters were now on their feet shouting at the Cohort to stop. But Annabel had crumpled to her knees, her head down, her hands still gripping the Sword. She hadn't raised her hands to shield herself from the objects flying at her--they smacked into the floor and the lectern and the window: bottles and bags, coins and stones, even watches and bracelets. "Stop!" Julian shouted, and the cold rage with which he spoke was enough to shock at least a few into silence. "By the Angel, this is the truth. She's telling you the truth! About Malcolm, about the Unseelie King--" "How are we supposed to know that?" hissed Dearborn. "Who says the Mortal Sword works on that--that thing? She is tainted--" "She is a monster," shouted Zara. "This is a conspiracy to try to drag us into a war with the Unseelie Court! The Blackthorns care about nothing but their lies and their filthy faerie siblings!" "Julian," Annabel gasped, the Mortal Sword held so tightly in her hands that blood began to bloom on her skin where she gripped the blade. "Julian, help me--Magnus--where's Magnus--" Julian struggled against the guards' hold. Robert hurried forward, his big hands outstretched. "Enough," he said. "Come with me, Annabel--" "Leave me alone!" With a hoarse shout, Annabel flinched back from him, raising the blade in her hand. Emma was reminded suddenly and coldly of two things: The Mortal Sword was not just an instrument of justice. It was a weapon. And Annabel was a Shadowhunter, with a weapon in her hand. As if he couldn't believe what was happening, Robert took another step toward Annabel, reaching out for her, as if he could calm her, convince her. He opened his mouth to speak, and she thrust the blade up between them. It pierced through Robert Lightwood's robes and sliced into his chest. Kit felt like someone who'd wandered into another family's hospital room by mistake and wasn't allowed to leave. Alec sat by Magnus's side, occasionally touching his shoulder or saying something in a low voice. Kieran stared out the window as if he could transport himself through the glass. "Do you want... I mean, should someone tell the kids? Max and Rafe?" Kit asked finally. Alec stood up and crossed the room, where a carafe of water rested on a side table. He poured himself a glass. "Not right now," he said. "They're safe in the city with my mother. They don't need--Magnus doesn't need--" He took a drink of water. "I was hoping he'd get better and we wouldn't have to tell them anything." "You said you knew what was wrong with him," said Kit. "Is it--dangerous?" "I don't know," Alec said. "But I do know one thing. It isn't just him. It's other warlocks too. Tessa and Jem have been looking for a cause or cure, but she's sick too--" He broke off. A dull roar was audible; a sound like waves rising, about to crash. Alec blanched. "I've heard that sound before," he said. "Something's happening. In the Hall." Kieran was off the windowsill in a fluid, single motion. "It is death." "It might not be," said Kit, straining his ears. "I can smell blood," Kieran said. "And hear screams." He climbed up on the windowsill and jerked down one of the curtains. He seized up the curtain rod, which had a sharply pointed finial, and leaped to the floor, brandishing it like a spear. His silver-black eyes gleamed. "I will not be found weaponless when they come." "You should stay here. Both of you. I'll find out what's going on," Alec said. "My father--" The door flew open. Kieran flung his curtain rod. Diego, who had just appeared in the doorway, ducked as it flew by and slammed into the wall, where it jammed point first. "Que chingados ?" said Diego, looking stunned. "What the hell?" "He thinks you're here to kill us," said Kit. "Are you?" Diego rolled his eyes. "Things have gone bad in the Hall," he said. "Has anyone been injured?" Alec asked. Diego hesitated. "Your father--" he began. Alec set his glass down and walked across the room to Magnus. He bent and kissed him on the forehead and the cheek. Magnus didn't move, only slept on peacefully, his cat's eyes closed. Kit envied him. "Stay here," Alec said to Kit and Kieran. Then he turned and walked out of the room. Diego looked after him grimly. Kit felt a little sick. He had a feeling that whatever had happened to Alec's father, it hadn't been minor. Kieran yanked his curtain rod out of the wall and pointed it at Diego. "You have delivered your message," he said. "Now go. I will protect the boy and the warlock." Diego shook his head. "I am here to get you"--he pointed at Kieran--"and take you to the Scholomance." "I will not go anywhere with you," said Kieran. "You have no morality. You brought dishonor upon Lady Cristina." "You've no idea what happened between me and Cristina," added Diego in a frozen voice. Kit noticed that Perfect Diego was looking a little less than perfect. The shadows under his eyes were deep and violet, and his brown skin was sallow. Exhaustion and tension drew his fine features tight. "Say what you will of faeries," Kieran said. "We have no greater scorn than that we hold toward those who betray a heart given into their keeping." "It was Cristina," said Diego, "who asked me to come here and bring you to the Scholomance. If you refuse, you will be dishonoring her wishes." Kieran scowled. "You are lying." "I am not," said Diego. "She feared for your safety. The Cohort's hatred is at a fever pitch and the Hall runs wild. You will be safe if you come with me, but I can promise nothing otherwise." "How would I be safe at the Scholomance, with Zara Dearborn and her friends?" "She won't be there," said Diego. "She and Samantha and Manuel plan to remain here, in Idris, at the heart of power. Power is all they have ever wanted. The Scholomance is a place of peaceful study." He held his hand out. "Come with me. For Cristina." Kit stared, his breath caught. It was a very strange moment. He had learned enough about Shadowhunters now to understand what it meant that Diego was a Centurion, and what laws he was breaking, offering to smuggle Kieran to the Scholomance. And he understood enough of the pride of the Fair Folk to know what Kieran was accepting if he agreed. There was another roar of noise outside. "If you're here," Kit said cautiously, "and the Cohort attacks you, Mark and Cristina will want to protect you. And they could get hurt doing it." Kieran set the curtain rod down on the floor. He looked at Kit. "Tell Mark where I have gone," he said. "And give Cristina my thanks." Kit nodded. Diego inclined his head before stepping forward and taking Kieran awkwardly by the arm. He pressed the fingers of his other hand against the Primi Ordines pin on his gear. Before Kit could speak, Diego and Kieran vanished, a swirl of bright light streaking across the air where they had stood. The guards surged forward as Jia reached to catch Robert's slumping body. Her face a mask of horror, Jia sank to her knees, reaching for her stele, carving an iratze onto Robert's limp, dangling arm. His blood spread out around them both, a sluggishly moving pool of scarlet. "Annabel." Julian's voice was barely a whisper of bone-deep shock. Emma could almost see the abyss of guilt and self-blame opening at his feet. He began to struggle frantically against the grip of the guards holding him. "Let me go, let me go--" "Stay back!" Jia screamed. "All of you, stay back!" She was kneeling beside Robert, her hands wet with his blood as she tried again and again to cut the healing rune into his skin. Two other guards pounded up the steps and halted uncertainly at her words. Annabel, her blue dress splashed with blood, held the Sword in front of her like a barrier. Robert's blood was already sinking into the blade, as if it were porous stone drinking up water. Julian tore free of his restraints and leaped onto the bloody dais. Emma shot to her feet, Cristina seizing the back of her shirt, but to no avail: She was already clambering onto the narrow back of the bench. Thank the Angel for all the hours she'd spent practicing on the rafters in the training room, she thought, and ran, leaping from the end of the bench into the aisle. There were voices shouting at her, to her, a roar like waves; she ignored them. Julian rose slowly to his feet, facing Annabel. "Stay away!" Annabel shrieked, waving the Mortal Sword. It seemed to be glowing, pulsing even, in her grip, or was that Emma's imagination? "Stay away from me!" "Annabel, stop." Julian spoke calmly, his hands up to show they were empty-- empty ? Emma fumed, where was his sword, where were his weapons?--his eyes wide and guileless. "This will only make things worse." Annabel was sobbing harsh breaths. "Liar. Get back, get away from me." "I never lied to you--" "You told me they would give me Blackthorn Manor! You told me Magnus would protect me! But look!" She swept her arm in a wide arc, indicating the whole room. "I am tainted to them--despised, a criminal--" "You can still come back." Julian's voice was a marvel of steadiness. "Put the Sword down." For a moment, Annabel seemed to hesitate. Emma was at the foot of the dais steps; she saw Annabel's grip loosen on the hilt of the Sword-- Jia stood up. Her robes were wet with Robert's blood, her stele limp in her hand. "He's dead," she said. It was like a key turning in the lock of a cage, freeing the occupants: The guards lunged up the steps, leaping toward Annabel, blades outstretched. She spun with inhuman quickness, striking at them, and the Sword slashed across both their chests. There were screams as they collapsed, and Emma was running up the stairs, drawing Cortana, leaping in front of Julian. From here, she could see all of the Council Hall. It was a melee. Some were fleeing through the doors. The Blackthorns and Cristina were on their feet, fighting toward the dais, though a line of guards had appeared to hold them back. As Emma watched, Livvy ducked under a guard's arm and began to shove her way toward them. A longsword glimmered in her hand. Emma looked back at Annabel. It was clear this near to her that something had snapped inside her. She looked blank, her eyes dead and disconnected. Her gaze shifted past Emma. Alec had burst through the doors--he stared up at the dais, his face a mask of grief and shock. Emma wrenched her eyes away from him as Annabel sprang for Julian like a cat, her sword cutting the air before her. Instead of raising Cortana to meet Annabel's thrust, Emma threw herself to the side, knocking Julian to the polished floor of the dais. For a moment he was against her; they were together, body to body, and she felt the parabatai strength flow through her. The Mortal Sword came down again and they sprang apart, redoubled in strength, as it sliced through the wood at their feet. The room was full of screaming. Emma thought she heard Alec calling for Robert: Dad, please, Dad. She thought of the tapestry of him in Robert's room. She thought of Isabelle. She whirled with Cortana in her hand, and the flat of the blade slammed against Maellartach. Both swords shuddered. Annabel jerked her sword arm back, her eyes suddenly almost feral. Someone was shouting for Julian. It was Livvy, clambering up the side of the dais. "Livvy!" Julian yelled. "Livvy, get out of here--" Annabel swung again, and Emma raised Cortana, cutting on the upstroke, pushing closer, slamming her sword against Annabel's with all the force in her body, bringing the blades together with a massive, echoing clang. And the Mortal Sword shattered. It cracked jaggedly along the blade, the top half shearing away. Annabel shrieked and stumbled backward, and black fluid spilled from the broken sword like sap from a felled tree. Emma collapsed to her knees. It was as if the hand that held Cortana had been struck by lightning. Her wrist was humming and a ringing sounded all the way up her bones, making her body shake. She grabbed for Cortana's hilt with her right hand, panicking, desperate not to drop it. "Emma!" Julian was holding his own arm stiffly, Emma saw, as if he had been hurt too. The humming was receding. Emma tried to get to her feet and stumbled; her teeth bit down into her lip with frustration. How dare her body betray her. "I'm fine--fine--" Livvy gasped at the sight of the smashed Mortal Sword. She had reached the top of the dais; Julian reached out, and Livvy tossed him the sword she was holding. He caught it neatly and spun to face Annabel, who was staring down at the broken weapon in her hand. The Consul had seen what had happened too, and was striding toward them. "It's over, Annabel," Julian said. He didn't look triumphant; he looked weary. "It's done." Annabel gave a growl low in her throat and lunged. Julian raised his blade. But Annabel whipped past him, her black hair seeming to soar around her. Her feet left the ground, and for a moment she was truly beautiful, a Shadowhunter in full flowering glory, just before she landed lightly on the wooden floor at the dais's edge and drove her jagged, broken half blade into Livvy's heart. Livvy's eyes shot wide. Her mouth formed an O, as if she were astonished by discovering something small and surprising, like a mouse on the kitchen counter. An overturned vase of flowers, a broken wristwatch. Nothing huge. Nothing terrible. Annabel stepped back, breathing hard. She no longer looked beautiful. Her dress, her arm, was soaked in red and black. Livvy raised her hand and wonderingly touched the hilt protruding from her chest. Her cheeks flared red. "Ty?" she whispered. "Ty, I--" Her knees went out from under her. She thudded hard to the ground on her back. The blade was like an ugly massive insect fastened to her chest, a metal mosquito sucking the blood that ran from her wound, red mixed with the black of the sword, spilling across the floor. In the aisle of the Council Hall, Ty looked up, his face turning the color of ashes. Emma had no idea if he could see them through the teeming crowd--see his sister, see what had happened--but his hands flew to his chest, pressing over his heart. He pitched to his knees, soundlessly, just as Livvy had, and crumpled to the ground. Julian made a noise. It was a noise Emma couldn't have described, not as human a sound as a howl or a scream. It sounded like it was ripped out of the inside of him, like something brutal was tearing through his chest. He dropped the longsword Livvy had risked so much to bring him, fell to his knees, and crawled to her, pulling her into his lap. "Livvy, Livvy, my Livvy," he whispered, cradling her, feverishly stroking her blood-wet hair away from her face. There was so much blood. He was covered in it in seconds; it had soaked through Livvy's clothes, even her shoes were drenched in it. "Livid." His hands shook; he fumbled out his stele, put it to her arm. The healing rune vanished as quickly as he drew it. Emma felt as if someone had punched her in the stomach. There were wounds that were beyond an iratze's power. Healing runes only vanished from skin when occult poison was involved--or when the person was already dead. "Livia." Julian's voice rose, cracking and tumbling over itself like a wave breaking far out to sea. "Livvy, my baby, please, sweetheart, open your eyes, it's Jules, I'm here for you, I'm always here for you, please, please --" Blackness exploded behind Emma's eyes. The pain in her arm was gone; she felt nothing at all but rage. Rage that bleached everything else out of the world except the sight of Annabel cringing against the lectern, staring at Julian cradling his sister's dead body. At what she'd done. Emma whirled and stalked toward Annabel. There was nowhere she could go. The guards had circled the dais. The rest of the room was a seething mass of confusion. Emma hoped Ty was unconscious. She hoped he was seeing none of this. He would wake up eventually, and the horror of what he would wake up to drove her forward. Annabel staggered back. Her foot slipped, and she tumbled to the floor. She raised her head as Emma loomed up over her. Her face was a mask of fear. Emma heard Arthur's voice in her head. Mercy is better than revenge. But it was fainter than Julian's whispers or Dru's sobs. She brought Cortana down, scything the blade through the air--but as it sliced the air, inky smoke erupted from the window behind Annabel. It had the force of an explosion, the concussive wave knocking Emma backward. As she stumbled to her knees she caught sight of a moving shape inside the smoke--the gleam of gold, the flash of a symbol burned onto her brain: a crown, broken in half. The smoke vanished, and Annabel vanished with it. Emma curled her body over Cortana, clutching the blade to herself, her soul corroded with despair. All around her she could hear the rising voices in the room, cries and shrieks. She could see Mark bent over Ty, who was crumpled on the floor. Mark's shoulders were shaking. Helen was struggling through the crowd toward both of them. Dru was on the ground, sobbing into her hands. Alec had slumped back against the doors of the Hall, staring at the devastation. And there in front of her was Julian, his eyes and ears closed to anything but Livvy, her body cradled against his. She seemed a drift of fragile ash or snow, something impermanent that had blown into his arms accidentally: the petal of a faerie flower, the white feather of an angel's wing. The dream of a little girl, the memory of a sister reaching up her arms: Julian, Julian, carry me. But the soul, the spirit that made her Livvy was no longer there: It was something that had gone away to a far and untouchable place, even as Julian ran his hands over her hair again and again and begged her to wake up and look at him just one more time. High above the Council Hall, the golden clock began to chime the hour. <|startofbook|><|title|>Queen of Air and Darkness <|title|>Chapter 1: Death Looks Down <|startofchapter|>There was blood on the Council dais, blood on the steps, blood on the walls and the floor and the shattered remnants of the Mortal Sword. Later Emma would remember it as a sort of red mist. A piece of broken poetry kept going through her mind, something about not being able to imagine people had so much blood in them. They said that shock cushioned great blows, but Emma didn't feel cushioned. She could see and hear everything: the Council Hall full of guards. The screaming. She tried to fight her way through to Julian. Guards surged up in front of her in a wave. She could hear more shouting. "Emma Carstairs shattered the Mortal Sword! She destroyed a Mortal Instrument! Arrest her!" She didn't care what they did to her; she had to get to Julian. He was still on the ground with Livvy in his arms, resisting all efforts by the guards to lift her dead body away from him. "Let me through," she said. "I'm his parabatai, let me through." "Give me the sword." It was the Consul's voice. "Give me Cortana, Emma, and you can help Julian." She gasped, and tasted blood in her mouth. Alec was up on the dais now, kneeling by his father's body. The floor of the Hall was a mass of rushing figures; among them Emma glimpsed Mark, carrying an unconscious Ty out of the Hall, shouldering other Nephilim aside as he went. He looked grimmer than she'd ever seen him. Kit was with him; where was Dru? There--she was alone on the ground; no, Diana was with her, holding her and weeping, and there was Helen, fighting to get to the dais. Emma took a step back and almost stumbled. The wood floor was slippery with blood. Consul Jia Penhallow was still in front of her, her thin hand held out for Cortana. Cortana. The sword was a part of Emma's family, had been a part of her memory for as long as she could recall. She could still remember Julian laying it in her arms after her parents had died, how she'd held the sword to her as if it were a child, heedless of the deep cut the blade left on her arm. Jia was asking her to hand over a piece of herself. But Julian was there, alone, bowed in grief, soaked in blood. And he was more of herself than Cortana was. Emma surrendered the sword; feeling it yanked from her grip, her whole body tensed. She almost thought she could hear Cortana scream at being parted from her. "Go," Jia said; Emma could hear other voices, including Horace Dearborn's, raised, demanding she be stopped, that the destruction of the Mortal Sword and the disappearance of Annabel Blackthorn be answered for. Jia was snapping at the guards, telling them to escort everyone from the Hall: now was a time of grief, not a time for revenge--Annabel would be found-- go with dignity, Horace, or you'll be escorted out, now is not the time --Aline helping Dru and Diana to their feet, helping them walk from the room... Emma fell to her knees by Julian. The metallic smell of blood was everywhere. Livvy was a crumpled shape in his arms, her skin the color of skimmed milk. He had stopped calling for her to come back and was rocking her as if she were a child, his chin against the top of her head. "Jules," Emma whispered, but the word sat bitterly on her tongue: that was her childhood name for him, and he was an adult now, a grieving parent. Livvy had not just been his sister. For years he had raised her as a daughter. "Julian." She touched his cold cheek, then Livvy's colder one. "Julian, love, please, let me help you...." He raised his head slowly. He looked as if someone had flung a pail full of blood at him. It masked his chest, his throat, spattered his chin and cheeks. "Emma." His voice was barely a whisper. "Emma, I drew so many iratzes --" But Livvy had already been dead when she hit the wood of the dais. Before Julian even lifted her into his arms. No rune, no iratze, would have helped. "Jules!" Helen had finally forced her way past the guards; she flung herself down beside Emma and Julian, heedless of the blood. Emma watched numbly as Helen carefully removed the broken shard of the Mortal Sword from Livvy's body and set it on the ground. It stained her hands with blood. Her lips white with grief, she put her arms around Julian and Livvy both, whispering soothing words. The room was emptying around them. Magnus had come in, walking very slowly and looking pale. A long row of Silent Brothers followed him. He ascended the dais and Alec rose to his feet, flinging himself into Magnus's arms. They held each other wordlessly as four of the Brothers knelt and lifted Robert Lightwood's body. His hands had been folded over his chest, his eyes carefully closed. Soft murmurs of "ave atque vale, Robert Lightwood," echoed behind him as the Brothers carried his body from the room. The Consul moved toward them. There were guards with her. The Silent Brothers hovered behind them, like ghosts, a blur of parchment. "You have to let go of her, Jules," Helen said in her gentlest voice. "She has to be taken to the Silent City." Julian looked at Emma. His eyes were stark as winter skies, but she could read them. "Let him do it," Emma said. "He wants the last person to carry Livvy to be him." Helen stroked her brother's hair and kissed his forehead before rising. She said, "Jia, please." The Consul nodded. Julian got slowly to his feet, Livvy cradled against him. He began to move toward the stairs that led down from the dais, Helen at his side and the Silent Brothers following, but as Emma rose too, Jia put a hand out to hold her back. "Only family, Emma," she said. I am family. Let me go with them. Let me go with Livvy, Emma screamed silently, but she kept her mouth firmly closed: She couldn't add her own sadness to the existing horror. And the rules of the Silent City were unchangeable. The Law is hard, but it is the Law. The small procession was moving toward the doors. The Cohort had gone, but there were still some guards and other Shadowhunters in the room: a low chorus of "hail and farewell, Livia Blackthorn," followed them. The Consul turned, Cortana flashing in her hand, and went down the steps and over to Aline, who had been watching as Livvy was carried away. Emma began to shiver all over, a shiver that started deep down in her bones. She had never felt so alone--Julian was going away from her, and the other Blackthorns seemed a million miles away like distant stars, and she wanted her parents with a painful intensity that was almost humiliating, and she wanted Jem and she wanted Cortana back in her arms and she wanted to forget Livvy bleeding and dying and crumpled like a broken doll as the window of the Council Hall exploded and the broken crown took Annabel-- had anyone else seen it but her? "Emma." Arms went around her, familiar, gentle arms, raising her to her feet. It was Cristina, who must have waited through all the chaos for her, who had stayed stubbornly in the Hall as the guards shouted for everyone to leave, stayed to remain by Emma's side. "Emma, come with me, don't stay here. I'll take care of you. I know where we can go. Emma. Corazoncita. Come with me." Emma let Cristina help her to her feet. Magnus and Alec were coming over to them, Alec's face tight, his eyes reddened. Emma stood with her hand clasped in Cristina's and looked out over the Hall, which seemed to her an entirely different place than it had when they had arrived hours ago. Maybe because the sun had been up then, she thought, dimly hearing Magnus and Alec talking to Cristina about taking Emma to the house that had been set aside for the Blackthorns. Maybe because the room had darkened, and shadows were thick as paint in the corners. Or maybe because everything had changed, now. Maybe because nothing at all would ever be the same again. "Dru?" Helen knocked gently on the closed door of the room. "Dru, can I talk to you?" At least, she was fairly sure it was Dru's room. The canal house next to the Consul's residence on Princewater Street had been prepared for the Blackthorns before the meeting, since everyone had assumed they would spend several nights in Idris. Helen and Aline had been shown it earlier by Diana, and Helen had appreciated the light touch of Diana's loving hands everywhere: There were flowers in the kitchen, and rooms had names taped to the doors--the one with two narrow beds was for the twins, the one for Tavvy full of books and toys Diana had brought from her own home over the weapons shop. Helen had stopped in front of a small room with flowered wallpaper. "For Dru, maybe?" she'd said. "It's pretty." Diana had looked dubious. "Oh, Dru isn't like that," she'd said. "Maybe if the wallpaper had bats on it, or skeletons." Helen had winced. Aline had taken her hand. "Don't worry," she'd whispered. "You'll get to know them all again." She'd kissed Helen's cheek. "It'll be easy-peasy." And maybe it would have been, Helen thought, staring at the door with the note that said Drusilla on it. Maybe if everything had gone well. Grief s sharp agony flared up in her chest--she felt as she imagined a fish caught on a hook might feel, twisting and turning to get away from the spike of pain driven into its flesh. She remembered this pain from the death of her father, when only the thought that she had to take care of her family, had to look after the children, had gotten her through. She was trying to do the same now, but it was clear the children--if they could even really be called that; only Tavvy was truly a child, and he was at the Inquisitor's house, having thankfully missed the horror in the Council Hall--felt awkward around her. As if she were a stranger. Which only made the pain pierce deeper in her chest. She wished Aline was with her, but Aline had gone to be with her parents for a few hours. "Dru," Helen said again, knocking with more force. "Please let me in." The door flew open and Helen jerked her hand back before she accidentally punched Dru in the shoulder. Her sister stood in front of her, glaring in her ill-fitting black meeting clothes, too tight in the waist and chest. Her eyes were so red-rimmed it looked as if she had smeared scarlet eye shadow across her lids. "I know you might want to be alone," said Helen. "But I need to know that you're--" "All right?" Dm said, a little sharply. The implication was clear: How could I possibly be all right? "Surviving." Dm glanced away for a moment; her lips, pressed tightly together, trembled. Helen ached to grab her little sister and hug her, to cuddle Dru the way she had years ago when Dru was a stubborn toddler. "I want to know how Ty is." "He's asleep," said Helen. "The Silent Brothers gave him a sedative potion, and Mark's sitting with him. Do you want to sit with him too?" "I . . ." Dru hesitated, while Helen wished she could think of something comforting to say about Ty. She was terrified of what would happen when he woke up. He'd fainted in the Council Hall, and Mark had carried him to the Brothers, who were already in the Gard. They'd examined him in eerie silence and stated that physically he was healthy, but they would give him herbs that would keep him sleeping. That sometimes the mind knew when it needed to shut down to prepare itself to heal. Though Helen didn't know how a night of sleep, or even a year of it, would prepare Ty for losing his twin. "I want Jules," Dru said finally. "Is he here?" "No," Helen said. "He's still with Livvy. In the Silent City." She wanted to say he'd be back any moment--Aline had said the ceremony of laying someone out in the City as a preparation for cremation was a short one--but she didn't want to say anything to Dru that would turn out not to be true. "What about Emma?" Dru's voice was polite but clear: I want the people I know, not you. "I'll go look for her," Helen said. She had barely turned away from Dru's door when it shut behind her with a small but determined click. She blinked away tears--and saw Mark, standing in the hallway a few feet from her. He had come close so soundlessly that she hadn't heard him approach. He held a crumpled piece of paper in his hand that looked like a fire-message. "Helen," he said. His voice was rough. After all his years in the Hunt, would he grieve as faeries grieved? He looked rumpled, weary: There were very human lines under his eyes, at the sides of his mouth. "Ty is not alone-- Diana and Kit are with him, and he sleeps on, besides. I needed to speak with you." "I have to get Emma," Helen said. "Dm wants her." "Her room is just there; we can certainly get her before we leave," Mark said, indicating the farther end of the corridor. The house was paneled in honey-colored wood, the witchlight lamps lighting it to warmth; on another day, it would have been a pretty place. "Leave?" Helen said, puzzled. "I have had a message from Magnus and Alec, at the Inquisitor's house. I must go and fetch Tavvy and tell him our sister is dead." Mark reached out a hand for her, his face twisting with pain. "Please, Helen. Come with me." When Diana was young, she had visited a museum in London where the star attraction was a Sleeping Beauty made of wax. Her skin was like pale tallow, and her chest rose and fell as she "breathed" with the help of a small motor implanted in her body. Something about Ty's stillness and pallor reminded her now of the wax girl. He lay partly covered with the blankets on his bed, his only movement his breath. His hands were loose and open at his sides; Diana longed for nothing more than to see his fingers moving, playing with one of Julian's creations or the cord of his headphones. "Is he going to be all right?" Kit spoke in a half whisper. The room was papered in cheerful yellow, both twin beds covered in rag bedspreads. Kit could have sat on the empty bed that was meant to be Livvy's, but he hadn't. He was crouched in a corner of the room, his back against the wall, his legs drawn up. He was staring at Ty. Diana put her hand to Ty's forehead; it was cool. She felt numb throughout her body. "He's fine, Kit," she said. She tugged the blanket up over Ty; he stirred and murmured, shrugging it off. The windows were open--they'd thought the air might be better for Ty--but Diana crossed the room to close them now. Her mother had always been obsessed with the idea that the worst thing that could happen to someone was catching a chill, and apparently you never forgot what your parents told you. Beyond the window she could see the city, outlined in the early dusk, and the rising moon. She thought of a figure on horseback, riding across that vast sky. She wondered if Gwyn knew of this afternoon's events, or if she would have to send him a message. And what would he do or say when he received it? He had come to her once before when Livvy, Ty, and Kit were in danger, but he had been called upon by Mark then. She still wasn't sure if he'd done it because he was genuinely fond of the children, or if he had simply been discharging a debt. She paused, hand on the window curtain. In truth, she knew little about Gwyn. As the leader of the Wild Hunt he was almost more mythic than human. She wondered how emotions must be felt by those so powerful and old they had become part of myths and stories. How could he really care about any mortal's little life given the scope of what he had experienced? And yet he had held her and comforted her in her old bedroom, when she had told him what she had only ever told Catarina and her parents before, and her parents were dead. He had been kind--hadn't he? Stop it. She turned back to the room; now wasn't the time to think about Gwyn, even if some part of her hoped he would come and comfort her again. Not when Ty might wake up any moment into a world of new and terrible pain. Not when Kit was crouched against the wall as if he had fetched up on some lonely beach after a disaster at sea. She was about to put her hand on Kit's shoulder when he looked up at her. There were no marks of tears on his face. He had been dry-eyed after his father's death too, she recalled, when he had opened the door of the Institute for the first time and realized he was a Shadowhunter. "Ty likes familiar things," said Kit. "He won't know where he is when he wakes up. We should make sure his bag is here, and whatever stuff he brought from London." "It's over there." Diana pointed to where Ty's duffel had been placed under the bed that should have been Livvy's. Without looking at her, Kit got to his feet and went over to it. He unzipped it and took out a book--a thick book, with old-fashioned page binding. Silently, he placed it on the bed just next to Ty's open left hand, and Diana caught a glimpse of the title embossed in gold across the cover and realized that even her numb heart could twinge with pain. The Return of Sherlock Holmes. The moon had begun to rise, and the demon towers of Alicante glowed in their light. It had been many years since Mark had been in Alicante. The Wild Hunt had flown over it, and he remembered seeing the land of Idris spread out below him as the others in the Hunt whooped and howled, amused at flying over Nephilim land. But Mark's heart had always beaten faster at the sight of the Shadowhunter homeland; the bright silver quarter of Lake Lyn, the green of Brocelind Forest, the stone manor houses of the countryside, and the glimmer of Alicante on its hill. And Kieran beside him, thoughtful, watching Mark as Mark watched Idris. My place, my people. My home, he'd thought. But it seemed different from ground level: more prosaic, filled with the smell of canal water in summer, streets illuminated by harsh witchlight. It wasn't far to the Inquisitor's house, but they were walking slowly. It was several minutes before Helen spoke for the first time: "You saw our aunt in Faerie," she said. "Nene. Only Nene, right?" "She was in the Seelie Court." Mark nodded, glad to have the silence broken. "How many sisters did our mother have?" "Six or seven, I think," said Helen. "Nene is the only one who is kind." "I thought you didn't know where Nene was?" "She never spoke of her location to me, but she has communicated with me on more than one occasion since I was sent to Wrangel Island," said Helen. "I think she felt sympathy in her heart for me." "She helped hide us, and heal Kieran," said Mark. "She spoke to me of our faerie names." He looked around; they had reached the Inquisitor's house, the biggest on this stretch of pavement, with balconies out over the canal. "I never thought I would come back here. Not to Alicante. Not as a Shadowhunter." Helen squeezed his shoulder and they walked up to the door together; she knocked, and a harried-looking Simon Lewis opened the door. It had been years since Mark had seen him, and he looked older now: His shoulders were broader, his brown hair longer, and there was stubble along his jaw. He gave Helen a lopsided smile. "The last time you and I were here I was drunk and yelling up at Isabelle's window." He turned to Mark. "And the last time I saw you, I was stuck in a cage in Faerie." Mark remembered: Simon looking up at him through the bars of the fey- wrought cage, Mark saying to him: I am no faerie. I am Mark Blackthorn of the Los Angeles Institute. It doesn't matter what they say or what they do to me. I still remember who I am. "Yes," Mark said. "You told me of my brothers and sisters, of Helen's marriage. I was grateful." He swept a small bow, out of habit, and saw Helen look surprised. "I wish I could have told you more," Simon said, in a more serious voice. "And I'm so sorry. About Livvy. We're grieving here, too." Simon swung the door open wider. Mark saw a grand entryway inside, with a large chandelier hanging from the ceiling; off to the left was a family room, where Rafe, Max, and Tavvy sat in front of an empty fireplace, playing with a small stack of toys. Isabelle and Alec sat on the couch: She had her arms around his neck and was sobbing quietly against his chest. Low, hopeless sobs that struck an echo deep inside his own heart, a matching chord of loss. "Please tell Isabelle and Alec we are sorry for the loss of their father," said Helen. "We did not mean to intrude. We are here for Octavian." At that moment, Magnus appeared from the entryway. He nodded at them and went over to the children, lifting Tavvy up in his arms. Though Tavvy was getting awfully big to be carried, Mark thought, but in many ways Tavvy was young for his age, as if early grief had kept him more childlike. As Magnus approached them, Helen began to lift her hands, but Tavvy held out his arms to Mark. In some surprise, Mark took the burden of his little brother in his arms. Tavvy squirmed around, tired but alert. "What's happened?" he said. "Everyone's crying." Magnus ran a hand through his hair. He looked extremely weary. "We haven't told him anything," he said. "We thought it was for you to do." Mark took a few steps back from the door, Helen following after him so that they stood in the lighted square of illumination from the entryway. He set Tavvy down on the pavement. This was the way the Fair Folk broke bad news, face-to-face. "Livvy is gone, child," he said. Tavvy looked confused. "Gone where?" "She has passed into the Shadow Lands," said Mark. He was struggling for the words; death in Faerie was such a different thing than it was to humans. Tavvy's blue-green Blackthorn eyes were wide. "Then we can rescue her," he said. "We can go after her, right? Like we got you back from Faerie. Like you went after Kieran." Helen made a small noise. "Oh, Octavian," she said. "She is dead," Mark said helplessly, and saw Tavvy wince away from the words. "Mortal lives are short and--and fragile in the face of eternity." Tavvy's eyes filled with tears. "Mark," Helen said, and knelt down on the ground, reaching her hands out to Tavvy. "She died so bravely," she said. "She was defending Julian and Emma. Our sister--she was courageous." The tears began to spill down Tavvy's face. "Where's Julian?" he said. "Where did he go?" Helen dropped her hands. "He's with Livvy in the Silent City--he'll be back soon--let us take you back home to the canal house--" "Home?" Tavvy said scornfully. "Nothing here is home." Mark was aware of Simon having come to stand beside him. "God, poor kid," he said. "Look, Mark--" "Octavian." It was Magnus's voice. He was standing in the doorway still, looking down at the small tearstained boy in front of him. There was exhaustion in his eyes, but also an immense compassion: the kind of compassion that came with great old age. He seemed as if he would have said more, but Rafe and Max had joined him. Silently they filed down the steps and went over to Tavvy; Rafe was nearly as tall as he was, though he was only five. He reached to hug Tavvy, and Max did too--and to Mark's surprise, Tavvy seemed to relax slightly, allowing the embraces, nodding when Max said something to him in a quiet voice. Helen got to her feet, and Mark wondered if his face wore the same expression hers did, of pain and shame. Shame that they could not do more to comfort a younger brother who barely knew them. "It's all right," Simon said. "Look, you tried." "We did not succeed," said Mark. "You can't fix grief," said Simon. "A rabbi told me that when my father died. The only thing that fixes grief is time, and the love of the people who care about you, and Tavvy has that." He squeezed Mark's shoulder briefly. "Take care of yourself," he said. "Shelo tecl'u od tza'ar, Mark Blackthorn." "What does that mean?" said Mark. "It's a blessing," said Simon. "Something else the rabbi taught me. 'Let it be that you should know no further sorrow.'" Mark inclined his head in gratitude; faeries knew the value of blessings freely given. But his chest felt heavy nonetheless. He could not imagine the sorrows of his family would be ending soon. <|title|>Chapter 2: Melancholy Waters <|startofchapter|>Cristina stood despairingly in the extremely clean kitchen of the Princewater Street canal house and wished there was something she could tidy up. She'd washed dishes that didn't need washing. She'd mopped the floor and set and reset the table. She'd arranged flowers in a vase and then thrown them out, and then retrieved them from the trash and arranged them again. She wanted to make the kitchen nice, the house pretty, but was anyone really going to care if the kitchen was nice and the house was pretty? She knew they wouldn't. But she had to do something. She wanted to be with Emma and comfort Emma, but Emma was with Drusilla, who had cried herself to sleep holding Emma's hands. She wanted to be with Mark, and comfort Mark, but he'd left with Helen, and she could hardly be anything but glad that at last he was getting to spend time with the sister he'd missed for so long. The front door rattled open, startling Cristina into knocking a dish from the table. It fell to the floor and shattered. She was about to pick it up when she saw Julian come in, closing the door behind him--Locking runes were more common than keys in Idris, but he didn't reach for his stele, just looked sightlessly from the entryway to the stairs. Cristina stood frozen. Julian looked like the ghost from a Shakespeare play. He clearly hadn't changed since the Council Hall; his shirt and jacket were stiff with dried blood. She never quite knew how to talk to Julian anyway; she knew more about him than was comfortable, thanks to Emma. She knew he was desperately in love with her friend; it was obvious in the way he looked at Emma, spoke to her, in gestures as tiny as handing her a dish across a table. She didn't know how everyone else didn't see it too. She'd known other parabatai and they didn't look at each other like that. Having such personal information about someone was awkward at the best of times. This wasn't the best of times. Julian's expression was blank; he moved into the hall, and as he walked, his sister's dried blood flaked off his jacket and drifted to the floor. If she just stood still, Cristina thought, he might not see her, and he might go upstairs and they'd both be spared an awkward moment. But even as she thought it, the bleakness in his face tugged at her heart. She was in the doorway before she realized she'd moved. "Julian," she said quietly. He didn't seem startled. He turned to face her as slowly as an automaton winding down. "How are they?" How did you answer that? "They're well taken care of," she said finally. "Helen has been here, and Diana, and Mark." "Ty..." "Is still asleep." She tugged nervously at her skirt. She'd changed all her clothes since the Council Hall, just to feel clean. For the first time, he met her eyes. His were shot through with red, though she didn't remember having seen him cry. Or maybe he had cried when he was holding Livvy--she didn't want to remember that. "Emma," he said. "Is she all right? You'd know. She would--tell you." "She's with Drusilla. But I'm sure she'd like to see you." "But is she all right?" "No," Cristina said. "How could she be all right?" He glanced toward the steps, as if he couldn't imagine the effort it would take to climb them. "Robert was going to help us," he said. "Emma and me. You know about us, I know that you do, that you know how we feel." Cristina hesitated, stunned. She'd never thought Julian would mention any of this to her. "Maybe the next Inquisitor--" "I passed through the Gard on my way back," Julian said. "They're already meeting. Most of the Cohort and half the Council. Talking about who's going to be the next Inquisitor. I doubt it's going to be someone who will help us. Not after today. I should care," he said. "But right now I don't." A door opened at the top of the steps, and light spilled onto the dark landing. "Julian?" Emma called. "Julian, is that you?" He straightened a little, unconsciously, at the sound of her voice. "I'll be right there." He didn't look at Cristina as he went up the stairs, but he nodded to her, a quick gesture of acknowledgment. She heard his footsteps die away, his voice mingling with Emma's. She glanced back at the kitchen. The broken dish lay in the corner. She could sweep it up. It would be the more practical thing to do, and Cristina had always thought of herself as practical. A moment later she had thrown her gear jacket on over her clothes. Tucking several seraph blades into her weapons belt, she slipped quietly out the door and into the streets of Alicante. Emma listened to the familiar sound of Julian coming up the stairs. The tread of his feet was like music she had always known, so familiar it had almost stopped being music. Emma resisted calling out again--she was in Dru's room, and Dru had just fallen asleep, worn-out, still in the clothes she'd worn to the Council meeting. Emma heard Julian's step in the hall, and then the sound of a door opening and closing. Careful not to wake Dru, she slipped out of the room. She knew where Julian was without having to wonder: Down the hall a few doors was Ty's borrowed bedroom. Inside, the room was softly lit. Diana sat in an armchair by the head of Ty's bed, her face tight with grief and weariness. Kit was asleep, propped against the wall, his hands in his lap. Julian stood by Ty's bed, looking down, his hands at his sides. Ty slept without restlessness, a drugged sleep, hair dark against the white pillows. Still, even in sleep he kept himself to the left side of the bed, as if leaving the space beside him open for Livvy. "... his cheeks are flushed," Julian was saying. "Like he has a fever." "He doesn't," Diana said firmly. "He needs this, Jules. Sleep heals." Emma saw the open doubt on Julian's face. She knew what he was thinking: Sleep didn't heal me when my mother died, or my father, and it won't heal this, either. It will always be a wound. Diana glanced over at Emma. "Dru?" she said. Julian looked up at that, and his eyes met Emma's. She felt the pain in his gaze like a blow to her chest. It was suddenly hard to breathe. "Asleep," she said, almost in a whisper. "It took a little while, but she finally crashed." "I was in the Silent City," he said. "We brought Livvy down there. I helped them lay her body out." Diana reached up to put her hand on his arm. "Jules," she said quietly. "You need to go and get yourself cleaned up, and get some rest." "I should stay here," Julian said in a low voice. "If Ty wakes up and I'm not here--" "He won't," Diana said. "The Silent Brothers are precise with their doses." "If he wakes up and you're standing here covered in Livvy's blood, Julian, it won't help anything," Emma said. Diana looked at her, clearly surprised by the harshness of her words, but Julian blinked as if coming out of a dream. Emma held out her hand to him. "Come on," she said. The sky was a mixture of dark blue and black, where storm clouds had gathered over the mountains in the distance. Fortunately, the way up to the Gard was lit by witchlight torches. Cristina slipped along beside the path, keeping to the shadows. The air held the ozone tang of an oncoming storm, making her think of the bitter-penny tang of blood. As she reached the front doors of the Gard, they opened and a group of Silent Brothers emerged. Their ivory robes seemed to glimmer with what looked like raindrops. Cristina pressed herself back against the wall. She wasn't doing anything wrong--any Shadowhunter could come to the Gard when they liked--but she instinctively didn't want to be seen. As the Brothers passed close by her, she saw that it wasn't rain after all sparkling on their robes but a fine dusting of glass. They must have been in the Council Hall. She remembered the window smashing inward as Annabel had disappeared. It had been a blur of noise, splintering light: Cristina had been focused on the Blackthorns. On Emma, the look of devastation on her face. On Mark, his body hunched inward as if he were absorbing the force of a physical blow. The inside of the Gard was quiet. Head down, she walked rapidly down the corridors, following the sound of voices toward the Hall. She veered aside to take the stairs up to the second-floor seats, which jutted out over the rest of the room like the balcony in a theater. There was a crowd of Nephilim milling around on the dais below. Someone (the Silent Brothers?) had cleared away the broken glass and blood. The window was back to normal. Clear up the evidence all you want, Cristina thought as she knelt down to peer over the railing of the balcony. It still happened. She could see Horace Dearborn, seated on a high stool. He was a big, bony man, not muscular though his arms and neck were ropy with tendons. His daughter, Zara Dearborn--her hair in a neat braid around her head, her gear immaculate--stood behind him. She didn't resemble her father much, except perhaps in the tight anger of their expressions and in their passion for the Cohort, a faction within the Clave who believed in the primacy of Shadowhunters over Downworlders, even when it came to breaking the Law. Crowded around them were other Shadowhunters, young and old. Cristina recognized quite a few Centurions--Manuel Casales Villalobos, Jessica Beausejours, and Samantha Larkspear among them--as well as many other Nephilim who had been carrying Cohort signs at the meeting. There were quite a few, though, who as far as she knew were not members of the Cohort. Like Lazio Balogh, the craggy head of the Budapest Institute, who had been one of the main architects of the Cold Peace and its punitive measures against Downworlders. Josiane Pontmercy she knew from the Marseilles Institute. Delaney Scarsbury taught at the Academy. A few others she recognized as friends of her mother's--Trini Castel from the Barcelona Conclave, and Luana Carvalho, who ran the Institute in Sao Paulo, had both known her when she was a small girl. They were all Council members. Cristina said a silent prayer of thanks that her mother wasn't here, that she'd been too busy dealing with an outbreak of Halphas demons in the Alameda Central to attend, trusting Diego to represent her interests. "There is no time to lose," Horace said. He exuded a sense of humorless intensity, just like his daughter. "We are without an Inquisitor, now, at a critical time, when we are under threat from outside and inside the Clave." He glanced around the room. "We hope that after today's events, those of you who have doubted our cause will come to be believers." Cristina felt cold inside. This was more than just a Cohort meeting. This was the Cohort recruiting. Inside the empty Council Hall, where Livvy had died. She felt sick. "What do you think you've learned, exactly, Horace?" said a woman with an Australian accent. "Be clear with us, so we're all understanding the same thing." He smirked a little. "Andrea Sedgewick," he said. "You were in favor of the Cold Peace, if I recall correctly." She looked pinched. "I don't think much of Downworlders. But what happened here today..." "We were attacked," said Dearborn. "Betrayed, attacked, inside and out. I'm sure you all saw what I saw--the sigil of the Unseelie Court?" Cristina remembered. As Annabel had disappeared, borne away through the shattered window of the Hall as if by unseen hands, a single image had flashed on the air: a broken crown. The crowd murmured their assent. Fear hung in the air like a miasma. Dearborn clearly relished it, almost licking his lips as he gazed around the room. "The Unseelie King, striking at the heart of our homeland. He sneers at the Cold Peace. He knows we are weak. He laughs at our inability to pass stricter Laws, to do anything that would really control the fey--" "No one can control the fey," said Scarsbury. "That's exactly the attitude that's weakened the Clave all these years," snapped Zara. Her father smiled at her indulgently. "My daughter is right," he said. "The fey have their weaknesses, like all Downworlders. They were not created by God or by our Angel. They have flaws, and we have never exploited them, yet they exploit our mercy and laugh at us behind their hands." "What are you suggesting?" said Trini. "A wall around Faerie?" There was a bit of derisive laughter. Faerie existed everywhere and nowhere: It was another plane of existence. No one could wall it off. Horace narrowed his eyes. "You laugh," he said, "but iron doors at all the entrances and exits of Faerie would do a great deal to prevent their incursions into our world." "Is that the goal?" Manuel spoke lazily, as if he didn't have much invested in the answer. "Close off Faerie?" "There is not only one goal, as you well know, boy," said Dearborn. Suddenly he smiled, as if something had just occurred to him. "You know of the blight, Manuel. Perhaps you should share your knowledge, since the Consul has not. Perhaps these good people should be aware of what happens when the doors between Faerie and the world are flung wide." Holding her necklace, Cristina seethed silently as Manuel described the patches of dead blighted earth in Brocelind Forest: the way they resisted Shadowhunter magic, the fact that the same blight seemed to exist in the Unseelie Lands of Faerie. How did he know that? Cristina agonized silently. It had been what Kieran was going to tell the Council, but he hadn't had the chance. How did Manuel know? She was only grateful that Diego had done what she had asked him to do, and taken Kieran to the Scholomance. It was clear there would have been no safety for a full-blood faerie here. "The Unseelie King is creating a poison and beginning to spread it to our world--one that will make Shadowhunters powerless against him. We must move now to show our strength," said Zara, cutting Manuel off before he was finished. "As you moved against Malcolm?" said Lazio. There were titters, and Zara flushed--she had proudly claimed to have slain Malcolm Fade, a powerful warlock, though it had later turned out she had lied. Cristina and the others had hoped the fact would discredit Zara--but now, after what had happened with Annabel, Zara's lie had become little more than a joke. Dearborn rose to his feet. "That's not the issue now, Balogh. The Blackthorns have faerie blood in their family. They brought a creature--a necromantic half-dead thing that slew our Inquisitor and filled the Hall with blood and terror--into Alicante." "Their sister was killed too," said Luana. "We saw their grief. They did not plan what happened." Cristina could see the calculations going on inside Dearborn's head--he would have dearly liked to blame the Blackthorns and see them all tossed into the Silent City prisons, but the spectacle of Julian holding Livvy's body as she died was too raw and visceral for even the Cohort to ignore. "They are victims too," he said, "of the Fair Folk prince they trusted, and possibly their own faerie kin. Perhaps they can be brought around to see a reasonable point of view. After all, they are Shadowhunters, and that is what the Cohort is about --protecting Shadowhunters. Protecting our own." He laid a hand on Zara's shoulder. "When the Mortal Sword is restored, I am sure Zara will be happy to lay any doubts you have about her accomplishments to rest." Zara flushed and nodded. Cristina thought she looked guilty as sin, but the rest of the crowd had been distracted by the mention of the Sword. "The Mortal Sword restored?" said Trini. She was a deep believer in the Angel and his power, as Cristina's family was too. She looked anxious now, her thin hands working in her lap. "Our irreplaceable link to the Angel Raziel --you believe it will be returned to us?" "It will be restored," Dearborn said smoothly. "Jia will be meeting with the Iron Sisters tomorrow. As it was forged, so can it be reforged." "But it was forged in Heaven," protested Trini. "Not the Adamant Citadel." "And Heaven let it break," said Dearborn, and Cristina suppressed a gasp. How could he claim such a brazen thing? Yet the others clearly trusted him. "Nothing can shatter the Mortal Sword save Raziel's will. He looked upon us and he saw we were unworthy. He saw that we had turned away from his message, from our service to angels, and were serving Downworlders instead. He broke the sword to warn us." His eyes glittered with a fanatic light. "If we prove ourselves worthy again, Raziel will allow the Sword to be reforged. I have no doubts." How dare he speak for Raziel? How dare he speak as if he were God? Cristina shook with fury, but the others seemed to be looking at him as if he offered them a light in darkness. As if he were their only hope. "And how do we prove ourselves worthy?" said Balogh in a more somber voice. "We must remember that Shadowhunters were chosen," said Horace. "We must remember that we have a mandate. We stand first in the face of evil, and therefore we come first. Let Downworlders look to their own. If we work together with strong leadership--" "But we don't have strong leadership," said Jessica Beausejours, one of Zara's Centurion friends. "We have Jia Penhallow, and she is tainted by her daughter's association with faeries and half-bloods." There was a gasp and a titter. All eyes turned toward Horace, but he only shook his head. "I will not utter a word against our Consul," he said primly. More murmurs. Clearly Horace's pretense of loyalty had won him some support. Cristina tried not to grind her teeth. "Her loyalty to her family is understandable, even if it may have blinded her," said Horace. "What matters now is the Laws the Clave passes. We must enforce strict regulations on Downworlders, the strictest of all on the Fair Folk--though there is nothing fair about them." "That won't stop the Unseelie King," said Jessica, though Cristina got the feeling she didn't so much doubt Horace as desire to prompt him to go further. "The issue is preventing faeries and other Downworlders from joining the King's cause," said Horace. "That is why they need to be observed and, if necessary, incarcerated before they have a chance to betray us." "Incarcerated?" Trini echoed. "But how--?" "Oh, there are several ways," said Horace. "Wrangel Island, for instance, could hold a host of Downworlders. The important thing is that we begin with control. Enforcement of the Accords. Registration of each Downworlder, their name and location. We would start with the faeries, of course." There was a buzz of approval. "We will, of course, need a strong Inquisitor to pass and enforce those laws," said Horace. "Then let it be you!" cried Trini. "We have lost a Mortal Sword and an Inquisitor tonight; let us at least replace one. We have a quorum--enough Shadowhunters are here to put Horace forward for the Inquisitor's position. We can hold the vote tomorrow morning. Who is with me?" A chant of "Dearborn! Dearborn!" filled the room. Cristina hung on to the railing of the balcony, her ears ringing. This couldn't happen. It couldn't. Trini wasn't like that. Her mother's friends weren't like that. This couldn't be the real face of the Council. She scrambled to her feet, unable to stand another second of it, and bolted from the gallery. Emma's room was small and painted an incongruously bright shade of yellow. A white-painted four-poster bed dominated the space. Emma tugged Julian toward it, sitting him down gently, and went to bolt the door. "Why are you locking it?" Julian raised his head. It was the first thing he'd said since they'd left Ty's room. "You need some privacy, Julian." She turned toward him; God, the way he looked broke her heart. Blood freckled his skin, darkened his stiff clothes, had dried in patches on his boots. Livvy's blood. Emma wished she'd been closer to Livvy in those last moments, paid more attention to her, rather than worrying about the Cohort, about Manuel and Zara and Jessica, about Robert Lightwood and exile, about her own broken, messed-up heart. She wished she had held Livvy one more time, marveling at how tall and grown-up she was, how she had changed from the chubby toddler Emma recalled in her own earliest memories. "Don't," Julian said roughly. Emma came closer to him; she couldn't stop herself. He had to look up to meet her eyes. "Don't do what?" "Blame yourself," he said. "I can feel you thinking about how you should have done something different. I can't let those kind of thoughts in, or I'll go to pieces." He was sitting on the very edge of the bed, as if he couldn't bear the thought of lying down. Very gently, Emma touched his face, sliding the palm of her hand across his jaw. He shuddered and caught her wrist, hard. "Emma," he said, and for one of the first times in her life, she couldn't read his voice--it was low and dark, rough without being angry, wanting something, but she didn't know what. "What can I do," she breathed. "What can I do, I'm your parabatai, Julian, I need to help you." He was still holding her wrist; his pupils were wide disks, turning the blue-green of his irises into halos. "I make plans one step at a time," he said. "When everything seems overwhelming, I ask myself what problem needs to be solved first. When that's solved, the next one. But I can't even begin here." "Julian," she said. "I am your warrior partner. Listen to me now. This is the first step. Get up." He narrowed his eyes at her for a moment, then obliged by rising to his feet. They were standing close together; she could feel the solidity and warmth of him. She pushed his jacket off his shoulders, then reached up and gripped the front of his shirt. It had a texture like oilcloth now, tacky with blood. She pulled at it and it tore open, leaving it hanging from his arms. Julian's eyes widened but he made no move to stop her. She ripped away the shirt and tossed it to the ground. She bent down and yanked off his bloodied boots. When she rose up, he was looking at her with eyebrows raised. "You're really going to rip my pants off?" he said. "They have her blood on them," she said, almost choking on the words. She touched his chest, felt him draw in a breath. She imagined she could feel the jagged edges of his heart beneath the muscle. There was blood on his skin, too: Patches of it had dried on his neck, his shoulder. The places he had held Livvy close against him. "You need to shower," she said. "I'll wait for you." He touched her jaw, lightly, with the tips of his fingers. "Emma," he said. "We both need to be clean." He turned and went into the bathroom, leaving the door wide open. After a moment, she followed. He had left the rest of his clothes in a pile on the floor. He was standing in the shower in just his underwear, letting the water run down over his face, his hair. Swallowing hard, Emma stripped down to her panties and camisole and stepped in after him. The water was scalding hot, filling the small stone space with steam. He stood unmoving under the spray, letting it streak his skin with pale scarlet. Emma reached around him and turned the temperature down. He watched her, wordless, as she took up a bar of soap and lathered it between her hands. When she put her soapy hands on his body he inhaled sharply as if it hurt, but he didn't move even an inch. She scrubbed at his skin, almost digging her fingers in as she scraped at the blood. The water ran pinkish red into the drain. The soap had a strong smell of lemon. His body was hard under her touch, scarred and muscled, not a young boy's body at all. Not anymore. When had he changed? She couldn't remember the day, the hour, the moment. He bent his head and she worked the lather into his hair, stroking her fingers through the curls. When she was done, she tilted back his head, let the water run over both of them until it ran clear. She was soaked to the skin, her camisole sticking to her. She reached around Julian to turn the water off and felt him turn his head into her neck, his lips against her cheek. She froze. The shower had stopped running, but steam rose up around them. Julian's chest was rising and falling fast, as if he were close to collapsing after a race. Dry sobs, she realized. He didn't cry--she couldn't remember the last time she'd seen him cry. He needed the release of tears, she thought, but he'd forgotten the mechanisms of weeping after so many years of holding back. She put her arms around him. "It's all right," she said. His skin was hot against hers. She swallowed the salt of her own tears. "Julian--" He drew back as she raised her head, and their lips brushed--and it was instant, desperate, more like a tumble over a cliff s edge than anything else. Their mouths collided, teeth and tongues and heat, jolts shuddering through Emma at the contact. "Emma." He sounded stunned, his hands knotting in the soaked material of her camisole. "Can I--?" She nodded, feeling the muscles in his arms tighten as he swung her up into his arms. She shut her eyes, clutching at him, his shoulders, his hair, her hands slippery with water as he carried her into her bedroom, tumbling her onto the bed. A second later he was above her, braced on his elbows, his mouth devouring hers feverishly. Every movement was fierce, frantic, and Emma knew: These were the tears he couldn't cry, the words of grief he couldn't speak. This was the relief he could only allow himself like this, in the annihilation of shared desire. Frantic gestures rid them of their wet garments. She and Julian were skin to skin now: She was holding him against her body, her heart. His hand slid down, shaking fingers dancing across her hipbone. "Let me--" She knew what he wanted to say: Let me please you, let me make you feel good first. But that wasn't what she wanted, not now. "Come closer," she whispered. "Closer--" Her hands curved over the wings of his shoulder blades. He kissed her throat, her collarbones. She felt him flinch, hard, and whispered, "What--?" He had already drawn away from her. Sitting up, he reached for his clothes, pulling them on with shaking hands. "We can't," he said, his voice muffled. "Emma, we can't." "All right--but, Julian--" She struggled into a sitting position, pulling the blanket up over herself. "You don't have to go--" He leaned over the edge of the bed to grab his torn and bloodied shirt. He looked at her with a sort of wildness. "I do," he said. "I really do." "Julian, don't--" But he was already up, retrieving the rest of his clothes, yanking them on while she stared. He was gone without putting his boots on, almost slamming the door behind him. Emma stared into the darkness, as stunned and disoriented as if she had fallen from a great height. Ty woke up suddenly, like someone exploding through the surface of water, gasping for air. The noise snapped Kit out of his doze--he'd been fitfully sleeping, dreaming about his father, walking around the Shadow Market with a massive wound across his stomach that seeped blood. "This is how it is, Kit," he'd been saying. "This is life with the Nephilim." Still half-asleep, Kit pushed himself up the wall with one hand. Ty was a motionless shadow on the bed. Diana was no longer there--she was probably catching a few moments of sleep in her own room. He was alone with Ty. It came to him how completely unprepared he was for all of this. For Livvy's death, yes, though he'd seen his own father die, and he knew there were still aspects of that loss he hadn't faced. Never having coped with that loss, how could he cope with this one? And given that he'd never known how to help anyone else, how to offer normal kinds of comfort, how could he help Ty? He wanted to shout for Julian, but something told him not to--that the shouting might alarm Ty. As Kit's eyes adjusted, he could see the other boy more clearly: Ty looked... "disconnected" might be the best word for it, as if he hadn't quite alighted back on earth. His soft black hair seemed crumpled, like dark linen, and there were shadows under his eyes. "Jules?" he said, his voice low. Kit pushed himself fully upright, his heart beating unevenly. "It's me," he said. "Kit." He had braced himself for Ty's disappointment, but Ty only looked at him with wide gray eyes. "My bag," Ty said. "Where is it? Is it over there?" Kit was too stunned to speak. Did Ty remember what had happened? Would it be worse if he did or didn't? "My duffel bag," Ty said. There was definite strain in his voice now. "Over there--I need it." The duffel bag was under the second bed. As Kit went to retrieve it, he glanced out at the view--the crystal spires of the demon towers reaching toward the sky, the water glimmering like ice in the canals, the walls of the city and the fields beyond. He had never been in a place so beautiful or so unreal-looking. He carried the bag over to Ty, who was sitting with his legs dangling over the side of the bed. Ty took the duffel and started to rummage through it. "Do you want me to get Julian?" Kit said. "Not right now," Ty said. Kit had no idea what to do. He'd never in his entire life had so little idea what to do, in fact. Not when he'd found a golem examining the ice cream in his fridge at four a.m. when he was ten. Not when a mermaid had camped out for weeks on his sofa when he was twelve and spent every day eating goldfish crackers. Not even when he'd been attacked by Mantid demons. There had been an instinct then, a Shadowhunter sense that had kicked in and propelled his body into action. Nothing was propelling him now. He was overwhelmed by the desire to drop down to his knees and grab Ty's hands, and hold him the way he had on the rooftop in London when Livvy had been hurt. At the same time, he was just as overwhelmed by the voice in his head that told him that would be a terrible idea, that he had no clue what Ty needed right now. Ty was still rustling around in his bag. He must not remember, Kit thought with rising panic. He must have blanked out the events in the Council Hall. Kit hadn't been there when Robert and Livvy died, but he'd heard enough from Diana to know what Ty must have witnessed. People forgot horrible things sometimes, he knew, their brains simply refusing to process or store what they'd seen. "I'll get Helen," he said finally. "She can tell you--what happened--" "I know what happened," Ty said. He had located his phone, in the bottom of the bag. The tension left his body; his relief was clear. Kit was baffled. There was no signal anywhere in Idris; the phone would be useless. "I'm going to go back to sleep now," Ty said. "There are still drugs in my system. I can feel them." He didn't sound pleased. "Should I stay?" Kit said. Ty had tossed the duffel bag onto the floor and lain back on the pillows. He was gripping the phone in his right hand, so tightly that his knuckles were white, but otherwise he showed no recognizable signs of distress. He looked up at Kit. His gray eyes were silver in the moonlight, flat as two quarters. Kit couldn't imagine what he was thinking. "Yes, I'd rather you did," he said. "And go to sleep if you want. I'll be fine." He closed his eyes. After a long moment, Kit sat down on the bed opposite Ty's, the one that was supposed to be Livvy's. He thought of the last time he'd seen her alone, helping her with her necklace before the big Council meeting, the way she'd smiled, the color and life in her face. It seemed absolutely impossible that she was gone. Maybe Ty wasn't the one acting oddly at all-- maybe the rest of them, in accepting the fact of her death, were the ones who didn't understand. It felt like a hundred miles between Emma's room and his, Julian thought. Like a thousand. He made his way through the halls of the canal house as if he were in a dream. His shoulder burned and ached. Emma was the only person he had ever desired, and the force of that desire sometimes stunned him. Never more than tonight. He had lost himself in her, in them, for some totality of time; he had felt only his body and the part of his heart that loved and was uninjured. Emma was all the good in him, he thought, all that burned bright. But then the pain had come, and the sense of something wrong, and he had known. As he hurried toward his room, fear tapped against the outside of his consciousness, howling to be let in and acknowledged, like skeleton hands scratching at a window. It was the fear of his own despair. He knew that he was cushioned by shock now, that he had only touched the tip of the iceberg of grief and howling loss. It would come, the darkness and the horror: He had lived through it before, with the loss of his father. And this--Livvy--would be worse. He couldn't control his grief. He couldn't control his feelings for Emma. His whole life had been built around exerting control over himself, over the mask he showed the world, and now it was cracking. "Jules?" He had reached his bedroom, but he wasn't home free. Mark was waiting for him, leaning against the door. He looked bone tired, hair and clothes rumpled. Not that Julian had any ground to stand on, since his own clothes were torn and bloody, his feet bare. Julian stopped dead. "Is everything all right?" They were going to be asking each other that constantly for quite some time, he guessed. And it never would really be okay, but they would reassure each other anyway about the small things, the measure of tiny victories: yes, Dm slept a little; yes, Ty is eating a bit; yes, were all still breathing. Julian listened mechanically as Mark explained to him that he and Helen had picked up Tavvy, and Tavvy knew about Livia now, and it wasn't good but it was all right and Tavvy was sleeping. "I didn't want to bother you in the middle of the night," Mark said, "but Helen insisted. She said otherwise the first thing that would happen when you woke up was that you'd freak out about Tavvy." "Sure," said Julian, amazed he sounded so coherent. "Thanks for letting me know." Mark gave him a long look. "You were very young when we lost Eleanor, your mother," he said. "She told me once there is a clock in the hearts of parents. Most of the time it is silent, but you can hear it ticking when your child is not with you and you do not know where they are, or when they are awake in the night and wanting you. It will tick until you are with them again." "Tavvy isn't my child," said Julian. "I'm not a parent." Mark touched his brother's cheek. It was almost more a faerie touch than a human one, though Mark's hand felt warm and calloused and real. Actually, it didn't feel like a touch at all, Julian thought. It felt like a blessing. "You know you are," Mark said. "I must ask your forgiveness, Julian. I told Helen of your sacrifice." "My--sacrifice?" Julian's mind was a blank. "The years you ran the Institute in secret," said Mark. "How you have taken care of the children. The way they look to you, and how you have loved them. I know it was a secret, but I thought she should know it." "That's fine," Julian said. It didn't matter. Nothing did. "Was she angry?" Mark looked surprised. "She said she felt such pride in you that it broke her heart." It was like a tiny point of light, breaking through the darkness. "She-- did?" Mark seemed about to reply when a second hot dart of pain went through Julian's shoulder. He knew exactly the location of that twinge. His heartbeat sped up; he said something to Mark about seeing him later, or at least he thought he did, before going into his bedroom and bolting the door. He was in the bathroom in seconds, turning up the witchlight's brilliance as he gazed into the mirror. He drew aside the collar of his shirt to get a better look--and stared. There was his parabatai rune. It was stark against his skin--but no longer black. Within the thickly drawn lines he saw what looked like red and glowing flecks, as if the rune had begun to burn from the inside out. He grabbed the rim of the sink as a wave of dizziness passed over him. He'd been forcing himself not to think about what Robert's death meant, about their broken plans for exile. About the curse that would come on any parabatai who fell in love. A curse of power and destruction. He had been thinking only of how much he desperately needed Emma, and not at all of the reasons that he couldn't have her, which remained unchanged. They had forgotten, reaching for each other in the abyss of grief, as they had always reached for each other all their lives. But it couldn't happen, Julian told himself, biting down hard on his lip, tasting his own blood. There could be no more destruction. It had begun to rain outside. He could hear the soft patter on the roof of the house. He bent down and tore a strip of material from the shirt he'd worn at the Council meeting. It was stiff and dark with his sister's dried blood. He tied it around his right wrist. It would stay there until he had vengeance. Until there was justice for Livvy. Until all this bloody mess was cleared up. Until everyone he loved was safe. He went back out into the bedroom and began to hunt for clean clothes and shoes. He knew exactly where he needed to go. Julian ran through the empty streets of Idris. Warm summer rain plastered his hair to his forehead and soaked his shirt and jacket. His heart was pounding: He missed Emma already, regretted leaving her. And yet he couldn't stop running, as if he could outrun the pain of Livvy's death. It was almost a surprise that he could grieve his sister and love Emma at the same time and feel both, neither diminishing the other: Livvy had loved Emma too. He could imagine how thrilled Livvy would have been to know he and Emma were together; if it were possible for them to get married, Livvy would have been wild with delight at the idea of helping plan a wedding. The thought was like a stabbing blow to the midsection, the twist of a blade in his guts. Rain was splashing down into the canals, turning the world to mist and water. The Inquisitor's house loomed up out of the fog like a shadow, and Julian ran up the front steps with such force that he nearly crashed into the front door. He knocked and Magnus opened it, looking pinched and unusually pale. He wore a black T-shirt and jeans with a blue silk robe thrown over them. His hands were bare of their usual rings. When he saw Julian, he sagged a little against the doorframe. He didn't move or speak, just stared, as if he were looking not at Julian but at something or someone else. "Magnus," Julian said, a little alarmed. He recalled that Magnus wasn't well. He'd nearly forgotten it. Magnus had always seemed the same: eternal, immutable, invulnerable. "I--" "I'm here on my own account," Magnus said, in a low and distant voice. "I need your help. There is absolutely no one else that I can ask." "That's not what I..." Julian pushed sopping-wet hair out of his eyes, his voice trailing off in realization. "You're remembering someone." Magnus seemed to shake himself a little, like a dog emerging from the sea. "Another night, a different boy with blue eyes. Wet weather in London, but when was it anything else?" Julian didn't press it. "Well, you're right. I do need your help. And there isn't anyone else I can ask." Magnus sighed. "Come in, then. But be quiet. Everyone's asleep, and that's an achievement, considering." Of course, Julian thought, following Magnus into a central drawing room. This was also a house of grief. The interior of the house was grand in its scope, with high ceilings and furniture that looked heavy and expensive. Robert seemed to have added little in terms of personality and decoration. There were no family pictures, and little art on the wall besides generic landscapes. "I haven't seen Alec cry in a long time," Magnus said, sinking onto the sofa and staring into the middle distance. Julian stood where he was, dripping onto the carpet. "Or Isabelle. I understand what it's like to have a father who's a bastard. He's still your bastard. And he did love them, and tried to make amends. Which is more than you can say for mine." He flicked a glance at Julian. "I hope you don't mind if I don't use a drying spell on you. I'm trying to conserve energy. There's a blanket on that chair." Julian ignored the blanket and the chair. "I shouldn't be here," he said. Magnus's gaze dropped to the bloody cloth tied around Julian's wrist. His expression softened. "It's all right," he said. "For the first time in a long time, I'm feeling despair. It makes me lash out. My Alec lost his father, and the Clave has lost a decent Inquisitor. But you, you lost your hope of salvation. Don't think I don't understand that." "My rune started to burn," Julian said. "Tonight. As if it had been drawn on my skin with fire." Magnus hunched forward and rubbed wearily at his face. Lines of pain and tiredness were etched beside his mouth. His eyes looked sunken. "I wish I knew more about it," he said. "What destruction this will bring to you, to Emma. To others." He paused. "I should be kinder to you. You've lost a child." "I thought it would wipe everything else out," Julian said, his voice scraped raw. "I thought there wouldn't be anything else in my heart but agony, but there's room in there for me to be terrified for Ty, and panicked about Dru, and there's room for more hate than I ever thought anyone could feel." The pain in hi parabatai rune flared, and he felt his legs give out. He staggered and went down on his knees in front of Magnus. Magnus didn't seem surprised that he was kneeling. He only looked down at Julian with a quiet, rarefied patience, like a priest hearing a confession. "What hurts more," Magnus asked, "the love or the hate?" "I don't know," Julian said. He dug wet fingers into the carpet on either side of his knees. He felt as if he were having a hard time catching his breath. "I still love Emma more than I ever thought was possible. I love her more every day, and more every time I try to stop. I love her like I'm being ripped in half. And I want to cut the throats of everyone in the Cohort." "There's an unconventional love speech," Magnus said, leaning forward. "What about Annabel?" "I hate her, too," said Julian, without emotion. "There's plenty of room for me to hate them all." Magnus's cat eyes glittered. "Don't think I don't know what you feel," he said. "And there is something I could do. It would be a stopgap. A harsh one. And I wouldn't do it lightly." "Please." Kneeling on the ground in front of the warlock, Julian looked up; he had never begged for anything in his life, but he didn't care if he was begging now. "I know you're sick, I know I shouldn't even ask, but I have nothing else I can do and nowhere else I can go." Magnus sighed. "There would be consequences. Have you ever heard the expression 'the sleep of reason brings forth monsters'?" "Yes," Julian said. "But I'm going to be a monster either way." Magnus stood up. For a moment he seemed to tower over Julian, a figure as tall and dark as the grim reaper in a child's nightmare. "Please," Julian said again. "I don't have anything left to lose." "Yes, you do," said Magnus. He raised his left hand and looked at it quizzically. Cobalt sparks had begun to burn at the tips of each of his fingers. "Oh yes, you do." The room lit with blue fire, and Julian closed his eyes. <|title|>Chapter 3: Eternal Rest <|startofchapter|>The funeral was set for noon, but Emma had been tossing and turning since three or four in the morning. Her eyes felt dry and itchy and her hands shook as she brushed her hair and wound it carefully into a knot on the back of her head. After Julian had left, she'd run to the window, wrapped in a sheet, and stared out in mingled shock and disbelief. She'd seen him come out of the house and run into the drizzling rain, not even bothering to slow down to zip his jacket. After that, there hadn't seemed like much she could do. It wasn't like Julian was in danger in the streets of Alicante. Still, she'd waited until she heard his step on the stairs, returning, and heard his bedroom door open and close. She'd gotten up then and gone to check on Ty, who was still asleep, Kit beside him. She'd realized Livvy's duffel bag was still in the room and taken it, afraid that it would hurt Ty to see it when he woke up. In her room, she'd sat on the bed and unzipped it briefly. There hadn't been much to Livvy's scant belongings--some shirts and skirts, a book, carefully packed toothbrush and soap. One of the shirts had dirt on it, and Emma thought maybe she should wash Livvy's clothes, maybe that would be helpful, and then she'd realized exactly why it wouldn't be helpful and didn't matter and she'd curled up over the bag, sobbing as if her heart would crack in half. In the end, she'd fallen into a fitful sleep full of dreams of fire and blood. She'd been woken up by the sound of Cristina knocking on her door with a mug of tea and the unpleasant news that Horace had been elected the new Inquisitor in an emergency vote that morning. She'd already told the rest of the family, who were awake and readying themselves for the funeral. The tea had about three thousand tablespoons of sugar in it, which was both sweet and sweet of Cristina, but it didn't take the edge off the bitterness of the Inquisitor news. Emma was looking out the window when Cristina came in again, this time carrying a pile of clothes. She was dressed all in white, the color of Shadowhunter mourning and funerals. White gear jacket, white shirt, white flowers in her loose dark hair. Cristina frowned. "Come away from there." "Why?" Emma glanced through the window; the house had a commanding view out over the lower part of the city. The walls were visible, and green fields beyond. She could see a line of very distant figures in white, filing through the gates of the city. In the center of the green fields, two massive stacks of kindling rose like pyramids. "They already built the pyres," Emma said, and a wave of dizziness came over her. She felt Cristina's warm hand close over hers, and a moment later they were both sitting on the edge of the bed and Cristina was telling her to breathe. "I'm sorry," Emma said. "I'm sorry. I didn't mean to go to pieces." Some of Emma's hair had come down out of its knot. Cristina's hands were skillful as she reached up to tuck the strands back in place. "When my uncle died," she said, "he was buried in Idris, and I could not come to the funeral, because my mother thought Idris was still dangerous. When she came home, I went to hug her and her clothes smelled like smoke. I thought: that is all there is left of my uncle now, this smoke on my mother's jacket." "I need to be strong," Emma said. "I have to be there for the Blackthorns. Julian is--" Broken, smashed up, in pieces. Missing. No, not missing. Just not with me. "You can grieve Livvy too," said Cristina. "She was a sister to you. Family is more than blood." "But--" "Grief does not make us weak," Cristina said firmly. "It makes us human. How could you comfort Dru, or Ty, or Jules, if you didn't know what they missed about her? Sympathy is common. Knowing the exact shape of the hole someone's loss leaves in your heart is rare." "I don't think any of us can understand the shape of what Ty lost," said Emma. Her fear for Ty was intense, like a constant bitter taste in the back of her throat, mixing with her grief for Livvy until she thought she might choke. Cristina gave Emma a last pat on the hand. "You'd better get dressed," she said. "I'll be down in the kitchen." Emma dressed in a half-dazed state. When she was done, she glanced at herself in the mirror. The white gear was covered with the scarlet runes of mourning, over and over, an overlapping pattern that became quickly meaningless to the eye like a word that is said repeatedly becomes meaningless to the ear. It made her hair and skin look paler, and even her eyes seemed cold. She looked like an icicle, she thought, or the blade of a knife. If only she had Cortana with her. She could go into Brocelind and scream and scream and slash at the air until she fell exhausted to the ground, the agony of loss seeping from her every pore like blood. Feeling incomplete without her sword, she headed downstairs. Diana was in the kitchen when Ty came downstairs. There was no one with him, and her hand tightened on the glass she was holding so fiercely that her fingers ached. She wasn't sure what she'd expected. She'd sat with Ty much of the night as he slept, a dead, silent, unmoving sleep. She'd tried to remember how to pray to Raziel, but it had been such a long time. She had made offerings of incense and flowers in Thailand after her sister had died, but none of it had helped or come close to healing the hole in her heart where Aria should have been. And Livvy was Ty's twin. Neither had ever known a world without the other one in it. Livvy's last words had been Ty, I--. No one would ever know the rest of what she'd wanted to say. How could he cope? How could anyone? The Consul had provided them all with mourning clothes, which had been kind. Diana wore her own white gown and a gear jacket, and Ty was in full formal mourning dress. Elegantly cut white coat, white trousers and boots, his hair very stark and black against it all. For the first time Diana realized that when Ty grew up he was going to be stunning. She'd thought about him as an adorable child for so long it had never crossed her mind that one day the more adult concept of beauty or handsomeness might be applied to him. He frowned. He was very, very, pale, almost the color of bleached paper, but his hair was neatly brushed and he looked otherwise put together and almost ordinary. "Twenty-three minutes," he said. "What?" "It will take us twenty-three minutes to get down to the Fields, and the ceremonies begin in twenty-five. Where is everyone?" Diana almost reached for her phone to text Julian before remembering phones didn't work in Idris. Focus, she told herself. "I'm sure they're on their way--" "I wanted to talk to Julian." Ty didn't sound demanding; he sounded more as if he were trying to remember a significant list of things he needed, in proper order. "He went with Livvy to the Silent City. I need to know what he saw and what they did to her there." I wouldn't have wanted to know those things about Aria, Diana thought, and immediately chided herself. She was not Ty. Ty took comfort from facts. He hated the unknown. Livvy's body had been taken away and locked behind stone doors. Of course he would want to know: Had they honored her body, had they kept her things, had they cleaned the blood from her face? Only by knowing would he be able to understand. There was a clatter of feet on the stairs. Suddenly the kitchen was full of Blackthorns. Ty moved to stand out of the way as Dru came down, red-eyed in a gear jacket a size too small. Helen, carrying Tavvy, both of them in white; Aline and Mark, Aline with her hair up and small gold earrings in the shape of mourning runes. Diana realized with a start she had been looking for Kieran beside Mark, expecting him there now, and had forgotten he was gone. Cristina followed and then Emma, both subdued. Diana had put out toast and butter and tea, and Helen put Tavvy down and went to get him some. No one else seemed interested in eating. Ty glanced anxiously at the clock. A moment later Kit was downstairs, looking uncomfortable in a white gear jacket. Ty didn't say anything, or even glance over at him, but the tension in his shoulders relaxed slightly. To Diana's surprise, the last to come down the stairs was Julian. She wanted to run over to him to see if he was all right, but it had been a long time since he'd let her do that. If he ever had. He'd always been a self-contained boy, loath to show any negative emotion in front of his family. She saw Emma glance at him, but he didn't return her glance. He was looking around the room, sizing up everyone's moods, whatever mental calculations he was making invisible behind the shield of his blue-green eyes. "We should go," he said. "They'll wait for us, but not long, and we should be there for Robert's ceremony." There was something different about his voice; Diana couldn't place it, exactly. The flatness of grief, most likely. Everyone turned toward him. He was the center, Diana thought, the fulcrum on which the family turned: Emma and Cristina stood back, not being Blackthorns, and Helen looked relieved when Julian spoke, as if she'd been dreading trying to corral the group. Tavvy went over to Julian and took his hand. They went out the door in a silent procession, a river of white flowing down the stone steps of the house. Diana couldn't help thinking of her sister and how she had been burned in Thailand and her ashes sent back to Idris for burial in the Silent City. But Diana hadn't been there for the funeral. At the time, she'd thought she'd never return to Idris again. As they passed along the street toward Silversteel Bridge, someone threw open a window overhead. A long white banner marked with a mourning rune tumbled out; Ty raised his head, and Diana realized that the bridge and then the street, all the way to the city gates, were festooned with white banners. They strode between them, even Tavvy looking up and around in wonder. Perhaps they flew mostly for Robert, the Inquisitor, but they were also for Livvy. At least the Blackthorns would always have this, she thought, this remembrance of the honor that had been shown to their sister. She hoped the election of Horace as Inquisitor wouldn't taint the day even more. Through all her life she had been aware of the uneasy truce not just between Shadowhunters and Downworlders but between those among the Nephilim who thought Downworlders should be embraced by the Clave--and those who did not. Many had celebrated when Downworlders had finally joined the Council after the Dark War. But she had heard the whispers of those who had not--those like Lazio Balogh and Horace Dearborn. The Cold Peace had given them the liberty to express the hate in their hearts, confident that all right-thinking Nephilim agreed with them. She had always believed they were wrong, but the election of Horace filled her with fear that there were more Nephilim than she had ever dreamed who were irretrievably soaked in hatred. As they stepped onto the bridge, something brushed against Diana's shoulder. She reached up to flick it away and realized it was a white flower-- one of the kind that grew only in Idris. She looked up; clouds were scudding across the sky, pushed by a brisk wind, but she saw the outline of a man on horseback vanish behind one of them. Gwyn. The thought of him lit a spark of warmth in her heart. She closed her hand carefully around the petals. The Imperishable Fields. That was what they were called, though most people called them simply the Fields. They stretched across the flat plains outside Alicante, from the city walls that had been built after the Dark War to the trees of Brocelind Forest. The breeze was soft and unique to Idris; in some ways Emma preferred the wind off the ocean in Los Angeles, with its sideways bite of salt. This wind felt too gentle for the day of Livvy's funeral. It lifted her hair and blew her white dress around her knees; it made the white banners that were raised on either side of each pyre drift like ribbons across the sky. The ground sloped down from the city toward the woods, and as they neared the funeral pyres Cristina took Emma's hand. Emma squeezed back gratefully as they came close enough to the crowd for Emma to see people staring and hear the mutters rise around them. There was sympathy for the Blackthorns, certainly, but also glares for her and Julian; Julian had brought Annabel into Idris, and Emma was the girl who had broken the Mortal Sword. "A blade as powerful as Cortana has no business in the hands of a child," said a woman with blond hair as Emma passed by. "The whole thing smacks of dark magic," said someone else. Emma decided to try not to listen. She stared straight ahead: She could see Jia standing between the pyres, all in white. Memories of the Dark War flooded over her. So many people in white; so very many burning pyres. Beside Jia stood a woman with long red hair who Emma recognized as Clary's mother, Jocelyn. Beside her was Maryse Lightwood, her black hair loose down her back. It was liberally threaded with gray. She seemed to be speaking intently to Jia, though they were too far away for Emma to hear what they were saying. Both pyres were finished, though the bodies had not been brought from the Silent City yet. Quite a few Shadowhunters had gathered--no one was required to attend funerals, but Robert had been popular, and his and Livvy's deaths shocking in their horror. Robert's family stood close to the pyre on the right--the ceremonial robes of the Inquisitor had been draped across the top. They would burn with him. Surrounding the kindling were Alec and Magnus, Simon and Isabelle, all in ritual mourning clothes, even little Max and Rafe. Isabelle looked up at Emma as she approached and waved a greeting; her eyes were swollen from crying. Simon, beside her, looked tense as a drawn bowstring. He was glancing around, his gaze darting among the people in the crowd. Emma couldn't help but wonder if he was looking for the same people she was--the people who by all rights ought to be here when Robert Lightwood was laid to rest. Where were Jace and Clary? The Shadowhunters had rarely seemed as alien to Kit as they did now. They were everywhere, dressed in their white, a color he associated with weddings and Easter. The banners, the runes, the glittering demon towers in the distance--all of it combined to make him feel as if he were on another planet. Not to mention that the Shadowhunters didn't cry. Kit had been to funerals before, and seen them on TV. People held handkerchiefs and sobbed into them. But not here; here they were silent, pulled taut, and the sound of birds was louder than the sound of talking or crying. Not that Kit was crying himself, and not that he had cried when his father died. He knew it wasn't healthy, but his father had always made it sound like to break down in grief meant you would be broken forever. Kit owed too much to the Blackthorns, especially Ty, to let himself shatter over Livvy. She wouldn't have wanted that. She would have wanted him to be there for Ty. One after another the Nephilim came up to the Blackthorns and offered their condolences. Julian had placed himself at the head of his family like a shield and was coolly fending off all cordial attempts to talk to his brothers and sisters, who stood in a group behind him. Julian seemed colder and more removed than usual, but that wasn't surprising. Grief hit everyone in different ways. It did mean he'd let go of Tavvy's hand, though, so Tavvy had gone over to stand next to Dru, pressing himself into her side. It also left Ty on his own, and Kit made his way over to the other boy, feeling resplendently silly in white leather pants and jacket. He knew it was a formal mourning outfit, but it made him feel like he was cosplaying someone in an eighties music video. "Funerals are always so sad," said a woman who had introduced herself as Irina Cartwright, staring at Julian with a deep pitying stare. When he didn't respond, she shifted her gaze to Kit. "Don't you think?" "I wouldn't know," said Kit. "My father was eaten by demons." Irina Cartwright looked discomfited and hurried away after a few more trite phrases. Julian raised an eyebrow at Kit before greeting the next mourner. "Do you still have .. . the phone?" Kit asked Ty, and felt immediately like an idiot. Who went up to someone at their twin sister's funeral and asked them if they had their phone? Especially when there was no signal anywhere in Idris? "I mean. Not that you can call. Anyone." "There's one phone in Idris that works. It's in the Consul's office," said Ty. He didn't look like he was cosplaying an eighties music-video star; he looked icy and striking and-- The word "beautiful" blinked on and off in Kit's head like a flickering neon sign. He ignored it. Elegant. Ty looked elegant. People with dark hair probably just looked naturally better in white. "It's not the phone signal I need," said Ty. "It's the photos on the phone." "Photos of Livvy?" Kit asked, confused. Ty stared at him. Kit remembered the days in London, in which they'd been working together, solving--well, solving mysteries. Like Watson and Holmes. He hadn't ever felt like he didn't understand Ty. But he felt it now. "No," Ty said. He glanced around. Kit wondered if the growing number of people was bothering Ty. He hated crowds. Magnus and Alec were standing with their kids near the Consul; they were with a beautiful black-haired girl with eyebrows just like Alec's and a boy--well, he was probably in his twenties-- with untidy brown hair. The boy gave Kit a considering look that seemed to say you look familiar. Several people had done the same. Kit guessed it was because he looked like Jace, if Jace had suffered a sudden and unexpected height, muscle, and overall hotness reduction. "I need to talk to you, later," Ty said, his voice low, and Kit wasn't sure whether to be worried or grateful. As far as he knew, Ty hadn't really talked to anyone since Livvy died. "You don't--want to talk to your brother? To Julian?" "No. I need to talk to you." Ty hesitated, as if he was about to say something else. There was a low, mournful sound as if of a horn blowing, and people turned to stare back at the city. Kit followed their gazes and saw that a procession was leaving the gates. Dozens of Silent Brothers in their parchment uniforms, walking in two lines on either side of two biers. The biers were carried at shoulder height by Council guards. They were too distant for Kit to see which bier was Livvy's: He could see only a body lying on each platform, wrapped in white. And then they came closer, and he saw that one body was much smaller than the other, and he turned to Ty without being able to stop himself. "I'm sorry," he said. "I'm so sorry." Ty was looking toward the city. One of his hands was opening and closing, his long fingers curling under, but other than that he showed no signs of any emotion. "There really isn't any reason for you to be sorry," he said. "So please don't be." Kit stood without speaking. There was a cold tension inside him, a fear he couldn't shake--that he had lost not just Livvy but Ty as well. "They haven't come back yet," Isabelle said. She was composed, immaculate in gear, a white silk band holding back her hair. She was holding Simon's hand, her knuckles as white as the flower in her lapel. Emma had always thought of grief as a claw. The claw of a massive monster you couldn't see, that reached down out of the sky and seized hold of you, punching out your breath, leaving only a pain you couldn't wriggle away from or avoid. You just had to endure it for as long as the claw had you in its grasp. She could see the pain of it in Isabelle's eyes, behind her calm exterior, and part of her wanted to reach out and hug the other girl. She wished Clary were here--Clary and Isabelle were like sisters, and Clary could comfort Izzy in the way only a best friend could. "I thought you knew," Simon said, his eyebrows wrinkled as he looked at Emma. She thought of Clary saying that she couldn't tell Simon about her visions of death, that he'd fall apart. "I thought they told you where they were going." No one seemed to be paying much attention to them--Jia was still deep in conversation with Jocelyn and Maryse, and the other Shadowhunters present had descended on Julian and the others to offer condolences. "They did. They went to Faerie. I know." Simon and Isabelle moved instinctively closer to her. She hoped they didn't look too much as if they were huddling, sharing secrets, since that was exactly what was happening. "It's just that I thought they'd be back by now," Emma said. "They're meant to get back tomorrow." Isabelle made a cooing noise, and bent down to scoop up Max. She held him in her arms, nuzzling her chin into his hair. "I know--it's awful. If there had only been a way to get them a message..." "We couldn't exactly ask the Clave to delay the funeral," said Simon. Shadowhunter bodies weren't embalmed; they were burned as soon as possible, before they began to decay. "Jace is going to be wrecked," said Izzy. She glanced back over her shoulder to where her brother was holding Rafe by the hand, looking up at Magnus as they talked. "Especially not to have been here for Alec." "Grief lasts a long time," said Emma, her throat tight. "Lots of people are there for you in the beginning, when it first happens. If Jace is there for Alec later, after all the noise of the funeral and all the platitudes from total strangers go away, that'll be better anyway." Izzy's eyes softened. "Thanks. And try not to worry about Clary and Jace. We knew we wouldn't be able to be in touch with them while they were gone. Simon--he's Clary's parabatai. He would feel it if anything had happened to her. And Alec would as well, about Jace." Emma couldn't argue the strength of the parabatai bond. She glanced down, wondering-- "They've come." It was Magnus, reaching to take Max from Isabelle. He gave Emma an odd sideways look that she couldn't read. "The Brothers." Emma glanced over. It was true: They had glided almost soundlessly into the crowd, parting it like the Red Sea. Shadowhunters fell back as the biers carrying Livvy and Robert passed among them, and stopped between the pyres. Livvy lay pale and bloodless, her body swathed in a white silk dress, white silk binding her eyes. Her gold necklace glittered at her throat. Her long brown hair was scattered with white flowers. Livvy dancing on her bed, wearing a pale green chiffon dress she'd bought at Hidden Treasures. Emma, Emma, look at my new dress! Emma struggled against the memory, against the cold truth: This was the last dress she would see Livvy wear. This was the last time she would see her familiar brown hair, the curve of her cheek, her stubborn chin. Livvy, my Livvy, my wise little owl, my sweet little sister. She wanted to scream, but Shadowhunters didn't cry out at death. They spoke the old words instead, handed down through the ages. "Ave atque vale." The murmur went through the crowd. "Ave atque vale, Robert Lightwood. Ave atque vale, Livia Blackthorn." Isabelle and Alec turned to face their father's bier. Julian and the other Blackthorns were still pinned in by well-wishers. For a moment, Emma was alone with Simon. "I talked to Clary before she left," she said, the words feeling like a hot pressure in the back of her throat. "She was worried something bad was going to happen." Simon looked puzzled. "What kind of bad thing?" Emma shook her head. "Just--if she doesn't come back when she's supposed to--" Simon looked at her with troubled eyes, but before he could say anything, Jia stepped forward and began to speak. "Shadowhunters die young," said someone in the crowd. Julian didn't recognize the man: He was probably in his early forties, with thick black eyebrows. He wore a patch on his gear with the symbol of the Scholomance on it, but little else differentiated him from the dozens of other people who had come up to Julian to tell him they were sorry his sister was dead. "But fifteen--" The man shook his head. Gladstone, Julian recalled. His last name was Gladstone. "Robert lived a full life. He was a distant cousin of mine, you know. But what happened to your sister should never have happened. She was only a child." Mark made a strangled noise behind Julian. Julian said something polite to send Gladstone on his way. Everything felt distant, muffled, as if he or the world had been wrapped in cotton padding. "I didn't like him," said Dru, after Gladstone had gone. The skin under her eyes was shiny and tight where tears had left traces that couldn't be washed away. It was as if there were two Julians. One was Julian Before, the Julian who would have reached over to comfort Dru, ruffle her hair. Julian Now didn't. He remained motionless as the crowd started to surge apart to make way for the funeral procession, and saw Helen lift Tavvy up into her arms. "He's seven," he said to her. "He's too old to be carried everywhere." She gave him a half-surprised, half-reproachful look but said nothing. The Silent Brothers were walking between them with their biers, and the Blackthorn family stilled as the air filled with the chant of the Nephilim. "Ave atque vale, Livia Blackthorn. Hail and farewell ." Dru jammed the heels of her hands into her eyes. Aline put an arm around her. Julian looked for Ty. He couldn't stop himself. Mark had gone over to Ty and was talking to him; Kit stood beside him, hands shoved in his pockets, shoulders hunched, altogether wretched. Ty himself was staring at Livvy's bier, a spot of red burning on each of his cheeks. On the way down from the city, he had peppered Julian with questions: Who touched her in the Silent City? Did they wash the blood off her? Did they brush her hair? Did they take her necklace? Did they let you have her clothes? Who picked the dress for her to be buried in? Did they close her eyes before they tied the silk over them? until Julian had been exhausted and near snapping. Ladders had been placed beside the pyres, each one a massive stack of logs and kindling. A Silent Brother took Livvy's body and began to climb the ladder. When he reached the top, he laid her body down; at the second pyre, a Silent Brother was doing the same with Robert Lightwood's corpse. Diana had also gone to stand beside Ty. There was a white flower tucked into her collar, pale against her dark skin. She said something quietly to him, and Ty looked up at her. Julian ached inside, a physical ache, as if he'd been punched in the stomach and was just now getting his breath back. He could feel the bloody cloth tied around his wrist, like a circle of fire. Emma. He looked for her in the crowd, saw her standing beside Simon. Cristina had come to stand with them. The ladders had been drawn away, and the Silent Brothers stepped forward with their lit torches. Their fire was bright enough to illuminate even the daylight scene. Emma's hair sparked and caught its brilliance as the Silent Brothers took their places around the pyres. "These flames, this burning," said Mark, who had appeared at Julian's side. "In the Wild Hunt we practiced sky burial." Julian glanced at him. Mark was flushed, his pale curls disordered. His mourning runes had been applied with care and precision, though, which meant he hadn't done them himself. They were beautiful and delicately done --Cristina's work. "We would leave bodies at the tops of glaciers or high trees, for the birds to pick clean," Mark said. "How about you not suggest that to anyone else at this funeral," said Julian. Mark winced. "I'm sorry, I don't always know the right thing to say." "When in doubt, don't say anything," Julian said. "Literally, it's better if you don't talk at all." Mark gave him the same look Helen had before--half hurt and half surprise--but before he could say anything, Jia Penhallow, in ceremonial robes of dazzling snow white, began to speak. "Fellow Shadowhunters," she said, her rich voice carrying across the Imperishable Fields. "A great tragedy has come to us. One of our most faithful servants of the Clave, Robert Lightwood, was slain in the Council Hall, where our Law has always prevailed." "Good job not mentioning he was a traitor," muttered someone in the crowd. It was Zara. A hissing spurt of giggles erupted around her, like a teapot exploding. Her friends, Manuel Villalobos, Samantha Larkspear, and Jessica Beausejours, stood around her in a tight circle. "I can't believe they're here." It was Emma. Somehow she had come up beside Julian. He didn't remember it happening, but reality seemed to be flickering in and out like a camera shutter opening and closing. She looked slightly taken aback when Julian didn't reply, but she stalked off into the crowd, stiff-arming Gladstone out of the way. "Also one of our youngest and most promising Shadowhunters was murdered, her blood spilled in front of us all," said Jia as Emma reached Zara and her friends. Zara jumped back slightly, then tried to hide her loss of poise with a glare. Emma wouldn't care one way or another, Julian thought, about Zara's poise. She was gesturing at Zara, and then at the Blackthorns and Ty, as Jia's voice rang out over the meadow: "We will not let these deaths go unpunished. We will not forget who was responsible. We are warriors, and we will fight, and fight back." Zara and her friends were looking mulish--all but Manuel, who was smiling a sideways smile that under other circumstances would have given Julian the creeps. Emma turned and walked away from them. Her expression was grim. Still, Zara had stopped talking, which was something. "They are gone," said Jia. "The Nephilim have lost two great souls. Let Raziel bless them. Let Jonathan Shadowhunter honor them. Let David the Silent remember them. And let us commend their bodies to the necropolis, where they will serve forever." The Consul's voice had softened. Everyone was looking toward her, even the children like Tavvy, Rafe, and Max, so everyone saw her expression change and darken. She spoke the next words as if they tasted bitter in her mouth. "And now, our new Inquisitor wants to say a few words." Horace Dearborn stepped forward; Julian hadn't noticed him until that moment. He wore a white mourning robe and a suitably grave expression, though there seemed to be a sneer behind it, like a shadow behind glass. Zara was grinning openly, and more of her friends from the Scholomance had gathered near her. She gave her father a little wave, still grinning, and Manuel's smirk spread until it covered most of his face. Julian saw the nausea in Isabelle's and Simon's expressions, the horror on Emma's face, the anger on Magnus's and Alec's. He strained to feel what they felt, but he couldn't. He felt nothing at all. Horace Dearborn took a long moment to survey the crowd. Kit had gleaned enough from the others to know that Zara's father was an even worse bigot than she was and that he'd been named the new Inquisitor by a majority of the Council, all of whom seemed more scared of the Unseelie Court and the threat of Downworlders than they were of investing a clearly evil man with power. Not that Kit found any of this surprising. Just depressing. Ty, beside him, didn't seem to be looking at Horace at all. He was staring up at Livvy, or the little of her they could see--she was a scrap of white at the top of a tall pile of kindling wood. As he looked at his sister, he drew his right index finger across the back of his left hand, over and over; otherwise he was motionless. "Today," Horace said finally, "as the Consul says, may indeed be a day for grief." "Nice of him to acknowledge," murmured Diana. "However!" Horace's voice rose, and he stabbed a finger out into the crowd, as if accusing them all of a terrible crime. "These deaths did not come from nowhere. There is no question who was responsible for these murders-- though foolish Shadowhunters may have allowed them to occur, the hand of the Unseelie King and all faeries, and all Downworlders by connection, were behind this act!" Why would that be? Kit thought. Horace reminded him of politicians shouting on TV, red-faced men who always seemed angry and always wanted you to know there was something you needed to be afraid of. The idea that if the Unseelie King was responsible for Livvy's and Robert's deaths, all Downworlders were guilty, made no sense to Kit, but if he was hoping for a protest from the crowd, he was disappointed. The gathering was strangely quiet, but Kit didn't get the sense that they were against Horace. Rather they seemed as if they felt it would be impolite to cheer. Magnus looked on with no expression at all, as if it had been wiped from his face with an eraser. "Death serves as a reminder," said Horace, and Kit glanced over at Julian, whose dark brown hair was blowing in the rising wind. Kit doubted this was a reminder Julian had needed. "A reminder that we have only one life and we must live it as warriors. A reminder that we have only one chance to make the correct choices. A reminder that the time is coming soon when all Shadowhunters will have to decide where they stand. Do they stand with traitors and Downworlder-lovers? Do they stand with those who would destroy our way of life and our very culture? Do they--young man, what are you doing? Get down from there!" "Oh, by the Angel," Diana whispered. Ty was climbing up the side of his sister's pyre. It didn't look easy--the wood had been piled up for maximum-efficiency burning, not for clambering, but he was finding handholds and footholds anyway. He was already high enough off the ground that Kit felt a bolt of fear go through him at the thought of what would happen if one of the logs of wood came free and he fell. Kit started after him without thinking, only to feel a hand close on his collar. He was jerked back by Diana. "No," she said. "Not you." Her face was set in grim lines. Not you. Kit saw what she meant in a moment: Julian Blackthorn was already running, shoving past the Inquisitor--who squawked indignantly-- and leaping for the pyre. He began to climb after his brother. "Julian!" Emma called, but she doubted he could hear her. Everyone was shouting now--the Council guards, the mourners, the Consul and Inquisitor. Zara and her friends were hooting with laughter, pointing at Ty. He had nearly reached the top of the pyre and didn't seem to hear anyone or anything around him: He was climbing with a dogged intensity. Julian, below him, climbing more carefully, couldn't match his speed. Only the Blackthorns were utterly silent. Emma tried to push forward, but Cristina held on to her wrist, shaking her head. "Don't--it's not safe, better not to distract Julian--" Ty had reached the platform atop the pyre. He sat down there, perched beside his sister's body. Helen gave a little whimper in her throat. "Ty." There was no protection from the wind at the top of the pyre. Ty's hair whipped around his face as he bent over Livvy. It looked as if he were touching her folded hands. Emma felt a wave of empathic sorrow like a punch to the gut, followed by another wave of anxiety. Julian reached the platform beside Ty and Livvy. He knelt beside his brother. They looked like two pale chess pieces, only the color of their hair-- Ty's a little darker--differentiating them in color. Emma felt her heartbeat in her throat. It was one of the hardest things she'd ever done, not to run to the pyre and climb it. Everything else but Julian and Ty seemed distant and far off, even when she heard Zara and her friends giggle that the Silent Brothers should light the pyre, should burn Ty and Julian along with Livvy if they wanted to be with her so badly. She felt Cristina stiffen beside her. Mark was walking across the grass, toward the two pyres. Zara and her friends were muttering about him now, about his pointed ears, his faerie blood. Mark walked with his head down, determined, and Emma couldn't stand it anymore: She broke away from Cristina and ran across the grass. If Mark was going to go after Julian and Ty, then she was too. She caught a glimpse of Jia, beside Maryse and Jocelyn, all of them motionless, a horrified tableau. Shadowhunters didn't do this sort of thing. They didn't make a spectacle of their grief. They didn't scream or rage or collapse or break down or climb to the tops of pyres. Julian had bent and taken his brother's face in his hands. It made for a peculiarly tender portrait, despite their location. Emma could imagine how difficult this was for him: He hated showing emotion in front of anyone he couldn't trust, but he didn't seem to be thinking about that; he was murmuring to Ty, their foreheads almost touching. "The ladders," Emma said to Mark, and he nodded without asking anything further. They pushed past a knot of onlookers and grabbed one of the heavy ladders the Silent Brothers had carried to the Field, propping it against the side of Livvy's pyre. "Julian," Emma called, and she saw him glance down at her as she and Mark held the ladder steady. Somewhere Horace was shouting at them to leave it alone and for the Council guards to come and drag the boys down. But nobody moved. Julian touched Ty once on the cheek and Ty hesitated, his arms coming up to hug himself briefly. He dropped them and followed Julian as they climbed down the ladder, Julian first. When he hit the ground he didn't move, just looked up, poised to catch his brother if he fell. Ty reached the ground and walked away from the pyre without stopping to catch his breath, heading across the grass toward Kit and Diana. Someone was shouting at them to move the ladder: Mark hoisted it and carried it over to the Silent Brothers, while Emma took hold of Julian's wrists and drew him gently away from the site of the pyres. He looked stunned, as if he'd been hit with enough force to make him dizzy. She stopped some distance from any other people and took both his hands in hers. No one would think anything odd of it; that was a normal sort of affection between parabatai. Still, she shivered, at the combination of touching him and the horror of the situation and the blank look on his face. "Julian," she said, and he winced. "My hands," he said, sounding surprised. "I didn't feel it." She glanced down and sucked in her breath. His palms were a crazy quilt of bloody splinters from the kindling wood. Some were small dark lines against his skin, but others were bigger, snapped-off toothpicks of wood that had gone in at an angle, oozing blood. "You need an iratze," she said, letting go of one of his wrists and reaching to her belt for a stele. "Let me--" "No." He drew his other wrist free of her hold. His expression was colder than glacial ice. "I don't think that would be a very good idea." He walked away as Emma struggled to breathe. Ty and Mark had returned to where the Blackthorns were standing: Ty was near Kit, as he almost always was, like a magnet clicking into place. She saw Mark reach out to take Cristina's hand and hold it and thought: I should be holding Julian's hands, I should be therefor him, reminding him there are still things in the world worth living for. But Julian's hands were bloody and wounded and he didn't want her to touch them. As his soul was torn and bloody and maybe he didn't want anyone near that, either, but she was different, she was his parabatai, wasn't she? It is time. The silent voice of one of the Brothers rippled across the Fields: They all heard it--except Magnus and Max, who looked around in confusion. Emma barely had time to brace herself before the Silent Brothers touched their torches to the kindling wood at the foot of each pyre. Fire blasted upward, rippling in shades of gold and red, and for a moment it was almost beautiful. Then the roar of the flames hit her, like the sound of a crashing wave, and the heat rolled across the grass, and Livvy's body vanished behind a sheet of smoke. Kit could barely hear the soft chant of the Nephilim over the greedy crackle of the flames: "Vale, vale, vale. Farewell, farewell, farewell." The smoke was thick. His eyes stung and burned, and he couldn't stop thinking of the fact that his own father had had no funeral, that there had been little of him left to bury, his flesh turned to ash by Mantid venom, his remains disposed of by the Silent Brothers. Kit couldn't bear to look at the Blackthorns, so he stared at the Lightwoods. He had overheard all their names by now: he knew Alec's sister was Isabelle, the girl with the black hair who stood with her arms around Alec and her mother, Maryse. Rafe and Max held each other's hands; Simon and Magnus stood close to the others, like small moons of comfort orbiting a planet of grief. He remembered someone saying that funerals were for the living, not the dead, so that they could say good-bye. He wondered about the burning: Was it so that the Nephilim could bid good-bye in fire that reminded them of angels? He saw a man come toward the Lightwoods and blinked his watering eyes. He was a young man, handsome, with curling brown hair and a square jaw. He wasn't wearing white, like the others, but plain black gear. As he passed Maryse he stopped and laid a hand on her shoulder. She didn't turn or seem to notice. Neither did anyone else. Magnus glanced over quickly, frowning, but looked away again; Kit realized with a coldness in his chest that he was the only one who actually could see the young man-- and that the smoke seemed to flow through the stranger, as if he were made of air. A ghost, he thought. Like Jessamine. He looked around wildly: Surely there would be more ghosts here, in the Imperishable Fields, their dead feet leaving no traces on the grass? But he saw only the Blackthorns, clinging together, Emma and Cristina side by side, and Julian with Tavvy, as the smoke rose up and around them. Half-reluctantly he glanced back: The young man with the dark hair had moved to kneel beside Robert Lightwood's pyre. He was closer to the flames than any human could have gotten, and they seemed to eddy within the outline of his body, lighting eyes with fiery tears. Parabatai, Kit thought suddenly. In the slump of the young man's shoulders, in his outstretched hands, in the longing stamped on his face, he saw Emma and Julian, he saw Alec as he spoke about Jace; he knew he was looking at the ghost of Robert Lightwood's parabatai. He didn't know how he knew it, but he did. A cruel sort of bond, he thought, that made one person out of two people, and left such devastation when half was gone. He glanced away from the ghost, realizing that smoke and fire had made a wall now, and the pyres were no longer visible. Livvy had disappeared behind the boiling darkness. The last thing he saw before tears blinded him was Ty beside him, lifting his face and closing his eyes, a dark silhouette outlined by the brilliance of the fire as if he was haloed in gold. <|title|>Chapter 4: Nothing That Is Ours <|startofchapter|>The pyres were still burning as the procession turned and headed back toward the city. It was customary for the smoke to rise all night, and for families to gather in Angel Square to mourn among others. Not that Emma thought it was likely the Blackthorns would do that. They would remain in their house, sequestered with each other: They had been too much apart all their lives to want comfort from other Shadowhunters who they barely knew. She had trailed away from the rest of the group, too raw to want to try to talk to Julian again in front of his family. "Emma," said a voice beside her. She turned and saw Jem Carstairs. Jem. She was too surprised to speak. Jem had been a Silent Brother once, and though he was a Carstairs, he was a very distant relative, due to being more than a century old. He looked only about twenty-five, though, and was dressed in jeans and scuffed shoes. He wore a white sweater, which she guessed was his concession to Shadowhunter funeral whites. Jem was no longer a Shadowhunter, though he had been one for many years. "Jem," she whispered, not wanting to disturb anyone else in the procession. "Thanks for coming." "I wished you to know how sorry I am," he said. He looked pale and drawn. "I know you loved Livia like a sister." "I had to watch her die," said Emma. "Have you ever watched someone you loved die?" "Yes," said Jem. This was the thing about nearly immortal people, Emma thought. It was rare that you had a life experience that they hadn't. "Can we talk?" she said abruptly. "Just us?" "Yes. I wished to speak alone with you myself." He indicated a low rise some distance away, partially hidden by a stand of trees. After whispering to Cristina that she was going to talk to Jem-- "The Jem? The really old one? Who's married to a warlock? Really?"--she followed Jem to where he was sitting on the grass, among a tumble of old stones. They sat for a moment in silence, both of them looking out over the Imperishable Fields. "When you were a Silent Brother," Emma said abruptly, "did you burn people?" Jem looked over at her. His eyes were very dark. "I helped light the pyres," he said. "A clever man I knew once said that we cannot understand life, and therefore we cannot hope to understand death. I have lost many I loved to death, and it does not get easier, nor does watching the pyres burn." "We are dust and shadows," Emma said. "I guess we're all ashes, too." "It was meant to make us all equal," said Jem. "We are all burned. Our ashes all go to build the City of Bones." "Except for criminals," said Emma. Jem's brow furrowed. "Livia was hardly that," he said. "Nor you, unless you are thinking of committing a crime?" I already have. I'm criminally in love with my parabatai. The desire to say the words, to confess to someone--to Jem, specifically--was like a pressure behind Emma's eyes. She said hastily, "Did your parabatai ever pull away from you? When you, you know, wanted to talk?" "People do strange things when they're grieving," said Jem gently. "I was watching from a distance, earlier. I saw Julian climb to the top of the pyre for his brother. I know how much he has always loved those children. Nothing he says or does now, in these first and worst days, is who he is. Besides," he added, with a slight smile, "being parabatai is complicated. I hit my parabatai in the face once." "You did what?" "As I said." Jem seemed to enjoy her astonishment. "I struck my parabatai --I loved him more than anyone else in the world I've ever loved save Tessa, and I struck him in the face because my heart was breaking. I can hardly judge anyone else." "Tessa!" Emma exclaimed. "Where is she?" Jem's hand made a fist in the grass. "You know of the warlock illness?" Emma recalled hearing of Magnus's weakness, the swiftness with which his magic was depleted. That it wasn't just him, it was other warlocks too. "Is Tessa sick?" she said. "No," Jem said. "She was ill, but recovered." "Then the warlocks can get better?" "Tessa is the only one who has conquered the sickness. She believes she is protected by her Shadowhunter blood. But more and more warlocks are falling ill now--and those who are older, who have used more magic and more powerful magic, are sickening first." "Like Magnus," Emma whispered. "How much does Tessa know about it? What have they figured out?" "Tessa thinks it might be connected to the spells Malcolm Fade used to raise Annabel," said Jem. "He used the ley lines to power his necromantic magic--if they're poisoned with that darkness, it might be communicating that poison to any warlock who uses them." "Can't warlocks just not use them?" "There are only a few sources of power," said Jem. "Ley lines are the easiest. Many of the warlocks have stopped using them, but it means they're exhausting their powers very quickly, which is also unhealthy." He gave her an unconvincing smile. "Tessa will solve it," he said. "She found Kit--she'll discover the answer to this as well." Jem bent his head. He kept his hair short, and Emma could see the marks of his Silent Brother scars, where runes of silence had once been placed, along his cheek. "I wanted to talk to you about Kit, actually," he said. "It's partly why I came." "Really? Because of Kit? He's all right, as far as I know. Sad, like the rest of us." "Kit is more than just a Herondale," he said. "The Herondales are important to me, but so are the Carstairs and Blackthorns. But Tessa and I knew Kit was in danger from the first time we found out what his heritage was. We rushed to find him, but Johnny Rook had hidden him well." "His heritage? Johnny Rook was a con man and Kit says his mother was a showgirl in Vegas." "Johnny ruas a con man, but he also had some Shadowhunter blood in his family--from a long time back, probably hundreds of years. That's not what's significant about Kit, though. What's significant is what he inherited from his mother." He hesitated. "Kit's mother's family has been hunted by faeries for many generations. The Unseelie King has been bent on their destruction, and Kit is the last of their line." Emma fell sideways onto the grass. "Not more faeries," she groaned. Jem smiled, but his eyes were troubled. "Kit's mother was murdered by a Rider," he said. "Fal. I believe you knew him." "I believe I killed him," said Emma. She pushed herself back up to sit beside Jem. "And now I'm glad. He murdered Kit's mom? That's awful." "I cannot tell you as much as I wish I could," said Jem. "Not quite yet. But I can tell you there is faerie blood in Kit's family. Kit's mother was hunted, and so was her father, on through the generations. Kit is alive because his mother went to great lengths to conceal the fact that he was born. She covered every link between them, and when she died, the King thought the line died with her." "And that's changed?" said Emma. "We fear it might have," said Jem. "Tessa and I left Kit with you at the Institute because the warlock sickness was already beginning. We did not know then whether it was something that could spread to humans. We also needed to be in the Spiral Labyrinth and they would not let us bring Kit. We always intended to return for him--we had no idea the Riders would be dispatched to find you. We cannot know whether or not they recognized him. He looks a great deal like his mother." "I don't think so," said Emma. Kit looked just like Jace, in her opinion. "So are you going to take Kit with you now?" said Emma. "We don't want to lose him, but if you have to--" "The warlock sickness has only worsened. Tessa and I are working day and night in the Spiral Labyrinth to find a cure. And there is something else." He hesitated. "Tessa is pregnant." "Oh! Congratulations!" It was the first good news Emma had gotten in what felt like forever. Jem smiled the sort of smile that made it look as if a light had turned on inside him. He had been alone so long, Emma knew, imagining that he would never have a family. To have a wife now and a baby on the way--the very ordinary sort of miracles that made up an ordinary life--must be extraordinary for him. "It is wonderful," he said. He laid a hand on hers. "I trust you, Emma. I wish only to ask you to look out for Kit, and if you see something suspicious --if you see any signs of a search--please tell me. I will come at once." "Should I send a fire-message?" Emma said, her happiness over the baby fading. "Sometimes it is not possible to send a fire-message. There are easier ways." He pressed something into her hand. A simple silver ring with a clear stone set into it. "It's glass," he said. "Smash the ring and Tessa will know; she has the matching one." Emma slid the ring onto her finger. She thought of Kit, standing faithfully beside Ty at the funeral. She thought of his pale curls and blue eyes and gamine face; should she have guessed he had faerie blood somewhere? No. He didn't look like Mark. He looked like a Herondale. Like that was all he was. "You can trust me," she said. "I'll look out for Kit. Is there anything I can do about the ley lines?" "It would be useful to have a Shadowhunter in Los Angeles checking out the locus point of Malcolm's magic," said Jem. "When you get home, contact Catarina Loss. She may want your help." "I will," Emma said. "It's good for me to have a purpose, I think. Livvy's dead--Jace and Clary are on a mission and can't be reached--and Horace Dearborn is the Inquisitor. It's like there's no hope for anything now." "There is always hope," said Jem. "When I was very young, it was still permitted to take spoils--the property of Downworlders could be confiscated by any Shadowhunter. I knew a man who kept the heads of slaughtered faeries in the Institute he ran." Emma made a nauseated noise. "There has ever been this strain of poison running through the dark heart of the Clave. But there are many more who know Downworlders are our brothers. We are all children under the Angel." He sighed. "And though I cannot remain with you, simply smash this ring and I will come, no matter how distant I may be." He put an arm around her and hugged her close for a moment. "Take care." "What does that mean?" Emma asked. But he was already gone, vanishing into the trees as swiftly as he'd come. Kit stood and watched the smoke rising in the distance through the window of the room he shared with Ty. At least, he assumed he shared the room with Ty. His bag was here, tossed into a corner, and nobody had ever bothered to tell him whether he was supposed to be in a different room. He'd gotten dressed in the bathroom that morning and emerged to find Ty pulling his T-shirt on over his head. His Marks seemed unusually black, probably because his skin was so pale. He looked so delicate--Kit had to glance away from the shape of his shoulder blades, the fragility of his spine. How could he look like that and be strong enough to fight demons? Now Ty was downstairs, with the rest of his family. People tended to cook when someone died and Shadowhunters were no exception. Someone was probably making a casserole. A demon casserole. Kit leaned his head against the cold glass of the window. There was a time he could have run, Kit thought. He could have run and left the Shadowhunters behind, lost himself in the underground world of Shadow Markets. Been like his father, not part of any world, existing between them. In the reflection of the window glass, Kit saw the bedroom door open and Ty come in. He was still wearing his mourning clothes, though he'd taken off the jacket and was just in a long-sleeved T-shirt. And Kit knew it was too late to run, that he cared about these people now, and specifically Ty. "I'm glad you're here." Ty sat down on the bed and started unlacing his boots. "I wanted to talk to you." The door was still slightly open and Kit could hear voices coming from the kitchen downstairs. Helen's, Dru's, Emma's, Julian's. Diana had gone back to her own house. Apparently she lived in a weapons store or something like that. She'd gone back to get some kind of tool she thought could fish the splinters out of Julian's bleeding hands. Ty's hands were fine, but he'd been wearing gloves. Kit had seen Julian's when he'd gone to rinse them at the sink, and they'd looked like shrapnel had blown into his palms. Emma had stood nearby looking worried, but Julian had said he didn't want an iratze, that it would just heal the skin closed over the bits of wood. His voice had sounded so flat, Kit had barely recognized it. "I know how this is going to sound," Kit said, turning so his back was against the cold glass. Ty was hunched over, and Kit caught the gleam of gold at his neck. "But you're not acting the way I expected." Ty kicked his boots off. "Because I climbed up the pyre?" "No, that was kind of actually the most expected thing you did," said Kit. "I just..." "I did it to get this," Ty said, and put his hand to his throat. Kit recognized the gold chain and the slim disk of metal attached to it: Livvy's locket, the one he'd helped her with in London. It had a circlet of the family thorns on the front, and she had told him Julian had added an etching to the back: a pair of crossed sabers, Livvy's weapon. Kit vividly remembered her holding her hair aside as he fastened the clasp, and the smell of her perfume. His stomach lurched with sadness. "Livvy's necklace," he said. "I mean, I guess that makes sense. I just thought you would..." "Cry?" Ty didn't look angry, but the intensity in his gray eyes had deepened. He was still holding the pendant. "Everybody is supposed to be sad. But that's because they accept that Livvy is dead. But I don't. I don't accept it." "What?" "I'm going to get her back," said Ty. Kit sat down heavily on the windowsill. "How are you going to do that?" Ty let go of the necklace and took his phone out of his pocket. "These were on Julian's phone," he said. "He took them when he was in the library with Annabel. They're photos of the pages of the Black Volume of the Dead." "When did you get these?" Kit knew texting didn't work in Idris. "Does Julian know you have them?" "I set up his phone so it would back up to mine. I guess he didn't realize. Then when I saw these in London, I--" Ty gave Kit a worried frown. "You won't tell him, will you?" "Of course not." "Will you come and sit down next to me so you can see them?" Kit wanted to say no; he couldn't say it. He wanted this not to be happening, but it was. When he sat down next to Ty on the bed, the mattress sagged, and he knocked against Ty's elbow accidentally. Ty's skin felt hot against his even through his T-shirt, as if the other boy had a fever. It never crossed his mind that Ty was lying or wrong, and he didn't seem to be either. After fifteen years with Johnny Rook, Kit was pretty familiar with what bad spell books were like, and this one looked decidedly evil. Spells in cramped handwriting littered the pages, along with creepy sketches of corpses crawling out of the grave, screaming faces, and charred skeletons. Ty wasn't looking at the photos like they were creepy, though; he was looking at them like they were the Holy Grail. "This is the most powerful spell book for bringing back the dead that's ever existed," he said. "That's why it didn't matter if they burned Livvy's body. With spells like these, she can be brought back whole no matter what happened to her, no matter how long--" He broke off with a shuddering breath. "But I don't want to wait. I want to start as soon as we get back to Los Angeles." "Didn't Malcolm kill a lot of people to bring Annabel back?" said Kit. "Correlation, not causation, Watson," said Ty. "The simplest way to do necromancy is with death energy. Life for death, basically. But there are other sources of energy. I would never kill anyone." He made a face that was probably supposed to be scornful but was actually just cute. "I don't think Livvy would want you to do necromancy," Kit said. Ty put his phone away. "I don't think Livvy would want to be dead." Kit felt the words like a punch to the chest, but before he could reply, there was a commotion downstairs. He and Ty ran to the top of the stairwell, Ty in his stocking feet, and looked down into the kitchen. Zara Dearborn's Spanish friend Manuel was there, wearing the uniform of a Gard officer and a smirk. Kit leaned forward more to see who he was talking to. He caught sight of Julian leaning against the kitchen table, his face expressionless. The others were ranged around the kitchen--Emma looked furious, and Cristina had her hand on the other girl's arm as if to hold her back. "Really?" Helen said furiously. "You couldn't wait until the day after our sister's funeral to drag Emma and Jules to the Gard?" Manuel shrugged, clearly indifferent. "It has to be now," he said. "The Consul insists." "What's going on?" Aline said. "You're talking about my mother, Manuel. She wouldn't just demand to see them without a good reason." "It's about the Mortal Sword," Manuel said. "Is that a good enough reason for all of you?" Ty tugged on Kit's arm, pulling him away from the stairs. They moved down the upstairs hallway, the voices in the kitchen receding but still urgent. "Do you think they'll go?" Kit said. "Emma and Jules? They have to. The Consul's asking," said Ty. "But it's her, not the Inquisitor, so it'll be all right." He leaned in toward Kit, whose back was against the wall; he smelled like a campfire. "I can do this without you. Bring back Livvy, I mean," he said. "But I don't want to. Sherlock doesn't do things without Watson." "Did you tell anyone else?" "No." Ty had pulled the sleeves of his shirt down over his hands and was worrying at the fabric with his fingers. "I know it has to be a secret. People wouldn't like it, but when Livvy comes back, they'll be happy and they won't care." "Better to ask forgiveness than permission," Kit said, feeling dazed. "Yes." Ty wasn't looking directly at Kit--he never did--but his eyes lit up hopefully; in the dim light of the hallway, the gray in them was so pale it looked like tears. Kit thought of Ty sleeping, how he'd slept the whole day of Livvy's death and into the night, and the way Kit had watched him sleep in terror of what would happen when he awoke. Everyone had been terrified. Ty would fall apart, they'd thought. Kit remembered Julian standing over Ty as he slept, one hand stroking his brother's hair, and he'd been praying--Kit didn't even know Shadowhunters prayed, but Julian definitely had been. Ty would crumble in a world without his sister, they'd all thought; he'd fall away to ashes just like Livvy's body. And now he was asking Kit for this, saying he didn't want to do it without him, and what if Kit said no and Ty crumbled from the pressure of trying to do it alone? What if Kit took away his last hope and he fell apart because of it? "You need me?" Kit asked slowly. "Yes." "Then," Kit said, knowing already that he was making a huge mistake, "I'll help you." It was cold in the Scholomance, even during the summer. The school had been carved into a mountainside, with long windows running all along the cliff face. They provided light, as did the witchlight chandeliers in nearly every room, but no warmth. The chill of the lake below, deep and black in the moonlight, seemed to have seeped into the stone of the walls and floor and to radiate outward, which was why, even in early September, Diego Rocio Rosales was wearing a thick sweater and coat over his jeans. Dusty witchlight sconces cast his shadow long and thin in front of him as he hurried down the hallway toward the library. In his opinion, the Scholomance was direly in need of an update. The one time his brother Jaime had ever visited the school, he'd said it looked as if it had been decorated by Dracula. This was unfortunately true. Everywhere there were iron chandeliers (which made Kieran sneeze), bronze dragon-shaped sconces holding ancient witchlight stones, and cavernous stone fireplaces with huge carved angels standing forbiddingly on either side. Communal meals were taken at a long table that could have accommodated the population of Belgium, though at the moment there were less than twenty people in residence at the school. Most of the teachers and students were either at home or in Idris. Which made it much easier for Diego to hide a faerie prince on the premises. He'd been nervous about the idea of concealing Kieran at the Scholomance--he wasn't a good liar at the best of times, and the effort of maintaining a "relationship" with Zara had worn him down already. But Cristina had asked him to hide Kieran, and he would have done anything for Cristina. He'd reached the end of the corridor, where the door to the library was. Long ago the word "Biblioteca" had adorned the door in gold lettering. Now only the outlines of the letters remained, and the hinges squeaked like distressed mice when Diego shoved the door open. The first time he'd been shown the library, he'd thought it was a prank. A massive room, it was on the top floor of the Scholomance, where the roof was made of thick glass and light filtered down through it. During the time that the school had been deserted, massive trees had taken root in the dirt beneath the floor: Kieran had commented that they seemed to have the strength of faerie oaks. No one had had the time or money to remove them. They remained, surrounded by the dust of broken stone; their roots had cracked the floor and snaked among the chairs and shelves. Branches spread out wide above, forming a canopy over the bookshelves, dusting the seats and floors with fallen leaves. Sometimes Diego wondered if Kieran liked it in here because it reminded him of a forest. He certainly spent most of his time in a window seat, somewhat grimly reading everything in the section on faeries. He had made a pile of books he considered accurate. The pile was small. He glanced over as Diego came in. His hair was blue-black, the color of the lake outside the window. He had put two books into his accurate pile and was reading a third: Mating Habits of the Unseelie. "I do not know anyone in Faerie who has married a goat," he said irritably. "In either the Seelie or the Unseelie Court." "Don't take it personally," Diego said. He pulled a chair over and sat down facing Kieran. He could see them both reflected in the window. Kieran's bony wrists stuck out below the sleeves of his borrowed uniform. Diego's clothes had all been too big for him, so Rayan Maduabuchi had offered to lend Kieran some--he didn't seem bothered that Diego was hiding a faerie in his room, but nothing much ruffled the surface of Rayan's calm. Divya, on the other hand, Diego's other best friend at the school, leaped nervously into the air every time anyone mentioned they were going to the library, despite Kieran's uncanny ability to hide himself. Divya and Rayan were the only people Diego had told about Kieran, mostly because they were the only people currently at the Scholomance that he trusted. There was only one professor in residence--Professor Gladstone, who was currently in Idris for the Inquisitor's funeral. Besides, while there'd been a time that Diego would have trusted a professor without a second thought, that time was past. "Have you heard anything from Idris?" said Kieran, looking down at his book. "You mean Mark," said Diego, "and I haven't heard anything from him. I am not his favorite person." Kieran glanced up. "Are you anyone's?" Somehow he managed to ask it as if it weren't an insulting question, but something he merely wished to know. Diego, who sometimes wondered the same thing himself, didn't answer. "I thought you might have heard from Cristina." Kieran closed the book, marking his place with his finger. "About whether she is all right, and Mark --I thought the funerals were today." "They were," Diego said. He also thought he might have heard from Cristina; he knew she'd been fond of Livia Blackthorn. "But funerals for us are very busy times. There is a great deal of ceremony, and a lot of people who visit and express condolences. She might not have much time." Kieran looked pained. "That seems as if it would be annoying. In Faerie we know to leave those who are grieving to themselves." "It's annoying, but also not," Diego said. He thought of the death of his grandfather, how the house had been full of velas, candles that burned with a beautiful light. How visitors had come and brought gifts of food, and they had eaten and drunk together and remembered his abuelo. Everywhere there had been marigolds and the cinnamon smell of atole and the sound of laughter. It seemed cold to him, and lonely, to grieve by yourself. But faeries were different. Kieran's eyes sharpened, as if he had seen something revealing in Diego's expression. "Is there a plan for me?" he asked. "Where am I to be sent, when my time hiding here is over?" "I had thought you might want to return to Los Angeles," said Diego, surprised. Kieran shook his head. Locks of his hair had turned white; his hair color seemed to change with his mood. "No. I will not go back to where Mark is." Diego was silent--he hadn't really had a plan. Cristina had asked him to hide Kieran but had never said for how long. He had wanted to do this for her because he knew he owed her; he had thought of Zara--had remembered the hurt on Cristina's face when she'd first met Zara. It had been his fault. He hadn't told her about Zara because he'd been desperately hoping something would happen that would get him out of the engagement before it was necessary. It was the Dearborns who had insisted on the marriage contract. They had threatened to expose the Rocio Rosales family's secrets if Diego didn't do something to prove to them that he was truthful when he said he didn't know where his brother was and didn't know where the artifact was that Jaime had taken. There had never been a question of him loving Zara, nor of her loving him. She seemed to feel it was a feather in her cap to be engaged to the son of an important family, but there was no passion in her except passion for the horrible causes her father espoused. Kieran's eyes widened. "What's that?" That was a bright light, like a will-o'-the-wisp, over Diego's shoulder. A fire-message. He caught it out of the air and the paper unrolled in his hand: He recognized the handwriting immediately. "Cristina," he said. "It's a message from Cristina." Kieran sat up so fast the book tumbled out of his lap to the floor. "Cristina? What does she say? Is she all right?" Odd, Diego thought; he would have imagined Kieran would have asked if Mark was all right. But the thought flew from his mind almost immediately, scrawled over by the words he was reading. Feeling as if he had been kicked in the gut, Diego handed the message over to Kieran and watched the other boy turn ashen as he read that Horace Dearborn had been made the new Inquisitor. "This is a slap in the Blackthorns' face," said Kieran, his hand shaking. "They will be heartbroken, as will Cristina. And he is a dangerous man. A deadly man." He looked up at Diego, his eyes night black and storm gray. "What can we do?" "It is clear I know nothing of people," Diego said, thinking of Zara, of Jaime, of all the lies he had told and how none of them had accomplished what he had wanted, but had only made everything worse. "No one should ask me how to solve anything." As Kieran looked at him, astonished, he dropped his face into his hands. "I know these words must seem empty at this point," said Jia, "but I'm so sorry about Livia." "You're right," Julian said. "They do." It was as if grief had plunged Julian into a bath of ice, Emma thought. Everything about him was cold--his eyes, his expression, the tone of his voice. She tried to remember the boy who'd clung to her with such passion the night before, but it felt a million miles away. It was late afternoon, and the demon towers were strung across the skyline of Alicante like a row of jagged diamonds. Emma looked around, remembering the last time she'd been in this room--she'd been twelve, and she'd been so impressed at how plush it was, with thick rugs underfoot and a desk of gleaming mahogany. She, Julian, and Diana were all seated in wingback armchairs before Jia's desk. Diana looked furious. Julian just looked blank. "These kids are tired and grief-stricken," Diana said. "I respect your judgment, Jia, but does this have to be now?" "It does," she said, "because Horace Dearborn wants to interrogate Helen and Mark, and any other Downworlders or part Downworlders in Alicante. Magnus and Alec are already packing their things to Portal out tonight. Evelyn Highsmith returned to the London Institute, so they can go home to New York." Jia pressed her fingers against her forehead. "I would have thought you would have wanted Helen and Mark to leave as well." "He wants to what?" Emma sat up straight, indignant. "You can't let him." "I don't have a choice. He was elected by a majority vote." Jia frowned. "Interrogating people is what the Inquisitor does--the decision is at his discretion." "Horace Dearborn has no discretion," said Diana. "Which is why I'm giving you advance notice," said Jia. "I suggest that Helen and Mark--and Aline, since she won't leave Helen--be Portaled to Los Angeles tonight." There was a moment of silence. "You're offering to send Helen to Los Angeles?" said Julian finally. "Not Wrangel Island?" "I'm suggesting Helen and Aline temporarily run the Los Angeles Institute," said Jia, and Emma actually felt her mouth fall open. "As the Consul, that is within my power, and I believe I can make it happen now, while Dearborn is distracted." "So you're saying we should all Portal back?" Emma said. "And Helen and Aline can come with us? That's great, that's--" "She doesn't mean all of us," said Julian. His hands were both bandaged. He'd gotten most of the splinters out himself, with the tip of a sharp knife, and there was blood on the bandages. He didn't seem to have felt it--Emma had felt the pain herself, watching his skin split under the blade, but he had never wavered. "She means Diana, you, and I are going to stay here, in Idris." "You've always been clever, Julian," said Jia, although not as if she admired the quality all that much. "If Helen and Mark aren't here, he'll interrogate us," said Julian. "Isn't that true?" "No," Diana said sharply. "They're children." "Yes," said Jia. "And one of them broke the Mortal Sword. The Inquisitor, like everyone else, is desperate to know how. Cortana is a legendary sword, but still just a sword. It should not have been able to shatter Maellartach." "He can ask me, but I don't know why it was broken," Emma said. "I swung at Annabel because she was trying to kill me. It was self-defense--" "People are terrified. And fear isn't logical," said Jia. "Thank the Angel that the Cup and Mirror are unaffected." She sighed. "This was the worst possible time for the Mortal Sword to be broken, at a time of serious instability and on the eve of a possible war with faeries. And after the Unseelie King snatched Annabel from the Council Hall--don't you understand how aware the Clave is that you brought her here?" "That was just me." Julian was white around the mouth. "Emma didn't have anything to do with it." Emma felt a faint spark of relief light among her fear. He still has my back. Jia looked down at her hands. "If I were to send all of you back home right now, there would be a riot. If Dearborn is allowed to question you, then public attention will swing away from you. The Cohort suspects your loyalty, mostly because of Helen and Mark." Julian gave a harsh laugh. "They suspect us because of our brother and sister? More than because I brought that thing--because I brought Annabel into the city? And promised everything would be all right? But it's Mark and Helen's blood that matters?" "Blood always matters, to the wrong sort of people," said Jia, and there was a rare bitterness in her voice. She passed a hand over her face. "I'm not asking you to be on his side. God, I'm not asking that. Just get him to understand that you're victims of Annabel. Those not in the Cohort are very sympathetic to you right now because of Livia--he won't want to go too much against public opinion." "So this is like a pointless little dance we're doing?" Emma said. "We let the Inquisitor question us, mostly for show, and then we can go home?" Jia smiled grimly. "Now you understand politics." "You're not worried about making Aline and Helen the heads of the Los Angeles Institute? Given the Cohort's concerns about Helen?" said Diana. "It'll just be Aline." Julian gazed unwaveringly at Jia. "The Consul's daughter. Helen won't be running anything." "That's right," said Jia, "and no, I don't like it either. But this may be a chance to get them back permanently from Wrangel Island. That's why I'm asking for your help--all three of you." "Am I going to be interrogated as well?" There was a sharp tension in Diana's voice. "No," Jia said. "But I'd like your help. As you helped me before with those files." "Files?" echoed Emma. "How are files important right now?" But Diana looked as if she understood some secret language Jia was speaking. "I'll stay, certainly," she said. "As long as the understanding is clear that I'm helping you and that my interests are in no way aligned with the Inquisitor's." "I understand," said Jia. Nor are mine hung unspoken in the air. "But the kids," said Emma. "They can't go back to Los Angeles without us." She turned to look at Julian, waiting for him to say that he wouldn't be separated from his younger siblings. That they needed him, that they should stay in Idris. "Helen can take care of them," he said, without glancing at her. "She wants to. It'll be all right. She's their sister." "Then it's decided," said Jia, rising from behind her desk. "You might as well get them packed--we'll open the Portal for them tonight." Julian rose as well, pushing back the hair that had fallen into his eyes with one of his bandaged hands. What the hell is wrong with you? Emma thought. There was something going on with Julian beyond what could be explained by grief. She didn't just know it, she felt it, down in the deep place where the parabatai bond tugged at her heart. And later tonight, when the others were gone, she would find out what it was. <|title|>Chapter 5: Wilderness of Glass <|startofchapter|>When Emma came into Cristinas room, she found her friend already packing. Cristina packed like she did everything else, with neatness and precision. She carefully rolled all her clothes so they wouldn't get wrinkled, sealed anything damp into plastic, and put her shoes into soft bags so they didn't mark up any fabric. "You realize that when I pack, I just throw everything into a suitcase, and then sit on it while Julian tries to zip it, right?" said Emma. Cristina looked up and smiled. "The thought gives me hives." Emma leaned against the wall. She felt bone tired and strangely lonely, as if Cristina and the Blackthorns had already departed. "Please tell me you'll be at the L. A. Institute when I get back," she said. Cristina stopped packing. She glanced down at the suitcase the Penhallows had provided, open on the bed, worrying her lower lip between her teeth. "Do you know how long it will be?" "A few days." "Do you think the family will want me to stay?" Cristina turned wide, dark eyes on Emma. "I could just go home. My study year isn't over, but they would understand. I feel as if I'm intruding." Emma pushed herself off the wall, shaking her head vigorously. "No, no-- you're not, Tina, you're not." Quickly, she described her conversation with Jem and the issue of the ley line contamination. "Jem thought I was going back to Los Angeles," she said. "He asked me to contact Catarina and help her find out more about the ley lines, but it'll have to be you. Helen and Aline will be so overwhelmed with the kids, and with their grief, and everyone--I know you can do it, Cristina. I trust you." Cristina gave her a slightly watery smile. "I trust you, too." Emma sat down on the bed. It creaked a protest, and she kicked it, bruising her heel but relieving her feelings somewhat. "I don't mean that Helen and Aline won't be any help. It's just that everyone's destroyed with grief. They're going to need someone who isn't destroyed to turn to--they'll need you." She took a deep breath. "Mark will need you." Cristina's eyes widened, and Emma suddenly remembered Mark's face an hour ago in the kitchen, when she and Julian had broken the news that the family would be returning to Los Angeles tonight without the two of them. His expression had stiffened. He had shaken his head and said, "Ill news. I cannot--" Breaking off, he'd sat down at the table, his hands shaking slightly. Helen, already sitting at the table, had gone white but said nothing, while Aline had put her hand on her wife's shoulder. Dru had silently walked out of the room. After a moment, Mark had risen and gone after her. Tavvy was protesting, offering a hundred different arguments for why Julian should go with them and why they didn't need to stay and the Inquisitor could come to Los Angeles instead or they could do the interrogation over Skype, which would have made Emma laugh if she hadn't felt so awful. "We're going home?" Helen had said. Julian had bent down to talk to Tavvy in a low voice; Emma could no longer hear them. "Back to Los Angeles?" "I'm really happy for you, and Jia says she thinks you can stay," Emma had said. "She hopes," Aline said. "She hopes we can stay." She looked calm, but her grip on Helen was tight. "But not without you," Helen said, looking troubled. "We should stay as long as you're here--" "No." To everyone's surprise, it was Ty. "That would be dangerous for Mark, and for you. This plan makes sense." Kit had given Ty an almost indecipherable look, half concern and half something else. "Home," Helen said, her eyes glimmering with tears. She looked at Julian, but he was picking up a protesting Tavvy. He carried him out of the room. "I don't know if I'm crying because I'm sad or happy," she added, brushing away the tears with damp fingers. Aline had kissed the top of her head. "Both, I imagine." Emma had been halfway up the stairs on the way to Cristina's room when she had seen Mark, leaning against the wall on the landing and looking dejected. "Dru won't let me in to talk to her," he said. "I am worried. It is like a faerie to grieve alone, but not, I understand, like a Shadowhunter." Emma hesitated. She was about to say that it wasn't unlike Dru to lock herself in her room alone, but Dru had looked more than a little upset when she'd left the kitchen. "Keep trying," she advised. "Sometimes you have to knock for twenty minutes or so. Or you could offer to watch a horror movie with her." Mark looked glum. "I do not think I would enjoy a horror movie." "You never know," Emma said. He had turned to head back up the stairs, and hesitated. "I am worried about you and Jules as well," he said, more quietly. "I do not like the Inquisitor, or the idea of you being questioned by him. He reminds me of the King of Unseelie." Emma was startled. "He does?" "They give me the same feeling," Mark said. "I cannot explain it, but--" A door opened on the landing overhead: It was Cristina's. She stepped out, glancing down. "Emma? I wondered if you were--" She had stopped when she saw Mark, and she and Mark stared at each other in a way that made Emma feel as if she had disappeared completely. "I didn't mean to interrupt," Cristina said, but she was still looking at Mark, and he was looking back as if their gazes were hopelessly tied together. Mark had shaken himself, as if he were casting off cobwebs or dreams. "It is all right--I must go speak with Drusilla." He had bounded up the stairs and out of sight, disappearing around the bend in the corridor. Cristina had snapped out of it and invited Emma in, and now it was as if the moment with Mark had never happened, though Emma was itching to ask about it. "Mark will need you," she said again, and Cristina twisted her hands in her lap. "Mark," she said, and paused. "I don't know what Mark is thinking. If he is angry at me." "Why would he be angry at you?" "Because of Kieran," she said. "They did not end things well, and now Kieran is at the Scholomance, and far away, which was my doing." "You didn't break him up with Kieran," Emma protested. "If anything, you helped keep them together longer. Remember--hot faerie threesome." Cristina dropped her face into her hands. "Mrfuffhfhsh," she said. "What?" "I said," Cristina repeated, lifting her face, "that Kieran sent me a note." "He did? How? When?" "This morning. In an acorn." Cristina passed a small piece of paper to Emma. "It isn't very illuminating." Lady of Roses, Though the Scholomance is cold, and Diego is boring, I am still grateful that you found enough value in my life to save it. You are as kind as you are beautiful. My thoughts are with you. Kieran "Why did he send you this?" Emma handed the note back to Cristina, shaking her head. "It's weird. He's so weird!" "I think he just wanted to thank me for the escape plan," Cristina protested. "That's all." "Faeries don't like thanking people," said Emma. "This is a romantic note." Cristina blushed. "It's just the way faeries talk. It doesn't mean anything." "When it comes to faeries," Emma said darkly, "everything means something." Dru ignored the pounding on the door. It wasn't hard--since Livvy died she'd felt like she was underwater and everything was happening at a distant remove, far above the surface. Words seemed to be echoes, and people were blurs that came and went like flickers of sunshine or shadow. Sometimes she would say the words to herself: Livvy, my sister Livvy, is dead. But they didn't feel real either. Even watching the pyre burn had felt like an event that was happening to someone else. She glanced out the window. The demon towers gleamed like shards of beautiful glass. Dru hated them--every time she'd ever been in Alicante, horrible things had happened. People had died. Helen had been exiled. She sat down on the windowsill, still holding a rolled-up T-shirt in her hand. Helen. For so long they had all wanted Helen back. It had been a family goal, like wanting Mark back and wanting the Cold Peace over and wanting Jules to be happy and for that forever worried line between his eyes to go away. But now Helen was back. She was back, and she was apparently going to take over for Jules. Helen will be taking care of you, he'd said. As if he could just walk away from that and Helen could pick it up, as if they weren't a family but were a carelessly dropped penny. Or a gerbil. You're treating me like a gerbil, she thought, and wondered what would happen if she said that to Jules. But she couldn't. Since Livvy had died the worried line had gone from between his eyebrows, replaced by a blank look that was a thousand times worse. Getting Mark back had been one thing. Mark had been happy to be with them, even when he'd been strange and said odd faerie things, and he'd told Drusilla that she was beautiful, and he'd tried to cook even though he couldn't. But Helen was thin and beautiful and remote; Dru remembered when Helen had gone off to Europe for her study year with a dismissive wave and an eagerness to be gone that had felt like a slap. She'd returned with Aline, sparklingly happy, but Dru had never forgotten how glad she'd been to be leaving them. She isn't going to want to watch horror movies with me and eat caramel com, Dru thought. She probably doesn't eat anything except flower petals. She isn't going to understand a thing about me and she isn't going to try. Unwrapping the T-shirt she was holding, she took out the knife and the note that Jaime Rocio Rosales had given her in London. She'd read the note so many times that the paper had grown thin and worn. She hunched over it, curled up on the windowsill as Mark knocked on her door and called her name in vain. The house felt echoingly empty. The trip back and forth to the Portal room at the Gard had been chaotic, with Tavvy complaining, and Helen frantically asking Julian about the everyday running of the Institute, and the odd electricity between Cristina and Mark, and Ty doing something odder with his phone. On the walk back Diana had mercifully broken the silence between Emma and Julian by chatting about whether or not she was going to sell the weapons shop on Flintlock Street. Emma could tell Diana was making a conscious effort to avoid awkward breaks in conversation, but she appreciated it all the same. Now Diana was gone, and Emma and Julian climbed the steps to the canal house in silence. Several guards had been posted around the place, but it still felt empty. The house had been full of people that morning; now it was only her and Julian. He threw the bolt on the front door and turned to go up the stairs without a word. "Julian," she said. "We need--I need to talk to you." He stopped where he was, hand on the banister. He didn't turn to look at her. "Isn't that sort of a cliche?" he said. "We need to talk?" "Yeah, that's why I changed it to 'I need to talk to you,' but either way, it's a fact and you know it," Emma said. "Especially since we're going to be alone with each other for the next few days. And we have to face the Inquisitor together." "But this isn't about the Inquisitor." He did finally turn to look at her, and his eyes burned, acid blue-green. "Is it?" "No," Emma said. For a moment she wondered if he was actually going to refuse to have a conversation, but he shrugged finally and led the way upstairs without speaking. In his room, she closed the door, and he laughed, a tired sort of noise. "You don't need to do that. There's no one else here." Emma could think of a time they would have been delighted to have a house to themselves. When it was a dream they'd shared. A house to themselves, forever, a life of their own, forever. But it did seem almost blasphemous to think about that, with Livvy dead. She had laughed, earlier, with Cristina. A flicker of joy in the dark. Now she wanted to shiver as Julian turned around, his face still blank, and looked at her. She moved closer to him, unable to stop herself from studying his face. He had explained to her once that what fascinated him about painting and drawing was the moment when an illustration took on life. The dab of paint or flick of a pen that changed a drawing from a flat copy to a living, breathing interpretation--the Mona Lisa's smile, the look in the eyes of the Girl with a Pearl Earring. That was what was gone from Julian, she thought, shivering again. The thousands of emotions that had always lived behind his expressions, the love --for her, for his siblings--behind his eyes. Even his worry seemed to have gone, and that was stranger than anything else. He sat down on the edge of his bed. There was a spiral-bound drawing notebook there; he shoved it carelessly aside, almost under one of his pillows. Julian was usually fastidious about his art supplies; Emma pushed back the urge to rescue the sketch pad. She felt lost at sea. So much seemed to have changed. "What's going on with you?" she said. "I don't know what you mean," Julian said. "I'm grieving my sister. How am I supposed to be acting?" "Not like this," Emma said. "I'm your parabatai. I can tell when something's wrong. And grief isn't wrong. Grief is what I'm feeling, what I know you were feeling last night, but Julian, what I feel from you now isn't that. And it scares me more than anything." Julian was silent for a long moment. "This is going to sound strange," he said finally. "But can I touch you?" Emma stepped forward so that she was standing between his legs, within arm's reach. "Yes," she said. He put his hands on her hips, just over the band of her jeans. He drew her closer, and she put her hands gently on the sides of his face, curling her fingertips against his cheekbones. He closed his eyes, and she felt his lashes brush the sides of her fingers. What is this? she thought. Julian, what is this? It wasn't as if he'd never hidden anything from her before; he'd hidden a whole secret life from her for years. Sometimes he'd been like a book written in an indecipherable language. But now he was like a book that had been shut and locked with a dozen heavy clasps. He leaned his head against her, soft wavy hair brushing her skin where her T-shirt rode up. He raised his head slightly and she felt the warmth of his breath through the fabric. She shivered as he pressed a soft kiss to the spot just above her hip bone; when he looked up at her, his eyes were fever bright. "I think I solved our problem," he said. She swallowed down her desire, her confusion, her tangle of unsorted feelings. "What do you mean?" "When Robert Lightwood died," Julian said, "we lost our chance of exile. I thought maybe grief, the overwhelming pain of it, would make me stop loving you." His hands were still on Emma's hips, but she didn't feel comforted by that: His voice was terrifyingly flat. "But it didn't. You know that. Last night--" "We stopped," Emma said, her cheeks flushing as she remembered: the shower, the tangle of sheets, the salt-and-soap taste of kisses. "It's not the actions, it's the emotions," said Julian. "Nothing made me stop loving you. Nothing made me even slow down. So I had to fix it." A cold knot of dread settled in Emma's stomach. "What did you do?" "I went to Magnus," Julian said. "He agreed to do a spell. Magnus said this kind of magic, messing with people's emotions, can have dangerous repercussions, but--" "Messing with your emotions?" Emma took a step back, and his hands fell to his sides. "What do you mean?" "He took them away," said Julian. "My emotions. My feelings for you. They're gone." "I don't understand." Emma had always wondered why people said that when it was clear they did understand, perfectly. She realized now: It was because they didn't want to understand. It was a way of saying: No, you can't mean it. Not what you just said. Tell me it isn't true. "As long as our feelings aren't mutual," he said, "it's not a problem, right? The curse can't come to pass." "Maybe." Emma took a deep, shaking breath. "But it's not just how you feel about me. You're different. You didn't fight Jia about leaving the kids--" He looked a little surprised. "I suppose I didn't," he said. He stood up, reaching out a hand for her, but she backed away. He dropped his arm. "Magnus said this stuff wasn't precise. That that was why it was a problem. Love spells, real love spells, the kind that make you fall for someone, those are black magic. They're a way of forcing emotion on people. Something like what he did to me is almost the opposite--he wasn't forcing anything on me, I asked for it, but he said emotions aren't singular --that's why there are no real 'cancel out love' spells. All your feelings are tied to other feelings, and they're tied to your thoughts and to who you are." Something fluttered on his wrist as he gestured: It looked like a loop of red fabric. "So he said he would do his best to affect only one part of my emotions. The eros part. Romantic love. But he did say it would probably affect everything else I felt too." "And has it?" Emma said. He frowned. And watching him frown tore at her heart: It was an emotion, even if it was just frustration or wonderment. "I feel as if I'm behind a pane of glass," he said. "And everyone else is on the other side. My anger is still there, I can feel that easily. I was angry at Jia. And when I climbed the pyre after Ty, it was atavistic, the need to protect him, there was no conscious thought to it." He glanced down at his bandaged hands. "I still feel grief, over Livvy, but it's bearable. It doesn't feel like it's ripping away my breath. And you..." "And us," Emma said grimly. "I know I loved you," he said. "But I can't feel it." Loved. The past tense was like being punched; she took another step backward, toward the door. She had to get out of the room. "Entreat me not to leave thee " she said, reaching for the doorknob, "but you've left me. You've left me, Julian." "Emma, stop," he said. "Last night--when I went to Magnus--the curse was happening. I felt it. I know, I know I couldn't stand one more person dying." "I never would have agreed to stay here with you if I'd known what you'd done," Emma said. "You could at least have told me. Honesty isn't an emotion, Julian." At that, she thought, he did flinch--though it could have been a start of surprise. "Emma--" "No more," she said, and fled from the room. She wasn't waiting for Gwyn, Diana told herself. She was definitely not sitting on her bed in the early hours of the morning, wearing a nice silk top she'd found in her closet, even though she would normally have put on her pajamas hours ago, for any reason except that she was up cleaning swords. She had three or four swords strewn across the coverlet, and she'd been polishing them in an attempt to bring back some of their original glory. They'd once been etched with twining roses, stars, flowers, and thorns, but over the years some had darkened and discolored. She felt a twinge of guilt at having neglected her father's shop, mixed with the old familiar guilt that always accompanied thoughts of her parents. There had been a time when all she had wanted was to be Diana and own Diana's Arrow, when she had ached for Idris and the chance to be herself in the Shadowhunter home country. Now she felt a restlessness that went beyond that; the old hopes felt too confining, as if they were a dress she had outgrown. Perhaps you outgrew your dreams, too, as your world expanded. Tap. Tap. Diana was up and off the bed the moment the window rattled. She threw up the sash and leaned out. Gwyn was hovering at eye level, his dappled horse shining in the light of the demon towers. His helmet hung by a strap from his horse's neck; there was a massive sword over his back, its hilt blackened with years of use. "I could not come sooner," he said. "I saw the smoke in the sky today and watched from above the clouds. Can you come with me to where it is safe?" She began to climb out the window before he was even done with his question. Sliding onto the horse's back in front of him felt familiar now, as did being circled by his enormous arms. She had always been a tall woman, and not much made her feel small and delicate, but Gwyn did. It was, if nothing else, a novel feeling. She let her mind wander as they flew in silence past the city, over its walls and the Imperishable Fields. The pyres had burned away to ash, covering the grass in eerie circles of blanched gray. Her eyes stung, and she looked away, hurriedly, toward the forest: the green trees approaching and then stretching out below them, the rills of silver streams, and the occasional rise of a stone manor house at the fringes of the woods. She thought of Emma and Julian, of the lonely shock on Emma's face when the Consul had told them they'd have to stay in Idris, of the worrying blankness on Julian's. She knew the emptiness shock could force on you. She could see it in Ty, as well, the deep silence and stillness brought on by a pain so great that no wailing or tears would touch it. She remembered her own loss of Aria, how she had lain on the floor of Catarina's cottage, turning and twisting her body as if she could somehow get away from the pain of missing her sister. "We are here," Gwyn said, and they were landing in the glade she remembered. Gwyn dismounted and was reaching up to help her down. She stroked the side of the horse's neck, and it nudged her with its soft nose. "Does your horse have a name?" Gwyn looked puzzled. "Name?" "I'm going to call him Orion," said Diana, settling herself on the ground. The grass under her was springy, and the air was scented with pine and flowers. She leaned back on her hands and some of the tension began to leave her body. "I would like that. For my steed to be named by you." Gwyn seated himself opposite her, large hands at his sides, his brow creased with concern. His size and bulk somehow made him seem more helpless than he would have otherwise. "I know what happened," he said. "When death comes in great and unexpected ways, the Wild Hunt knows it. We hear the stories told by spilled blood." Diana didn't know what to say--that death was unfair? That Livvy hadn't deserved to die that way, or any way? That the broken hearts of the Blackthorns would never be the same? It all seemed trite, a hundred times said and understood already. Instead she said, "I think I would like it if you kissed me." Gwyn didn't hesitate. He was beside her in a moment, graceful despite his bulk; he put his arms around her and she was surrounded by warmth and the smell of the forest and horses. She wrinkled her nose slightly and smiled, and he kissed her smiling mouth. It was a gentle kiss, for all his size. The softness of his mouth contrasted with the scratch of his stubble and the hard musculature under her hands when she put them timidly on his shoulders and stroked. He leaned into the touch with a low rumble of pleasure. Diana reached up to gently cup his face, marveling at the feeling of someone else's skin. It had been a long time, and she had never imagined something quite like this: Moonlight and flowers were for other people. But apparently not. His big hands stroked her hair. She had never felt so warm or so cared for, so completely contained in someone else's affection. When they stopped kissing it was as natural as when they had started, and Gwyn pulled her closer, tucking her into his body. He chuckled. "What?" she asked, craning her head up. "I wondered if kissing a faerie was different than kissing a Shadowhunter," he said with a surprisingly boyish smile. "I've never kissed one," she said. It was true; long ago, she had been too shy to kiss anyone, and too deeply sad, and later... "I've kissed a few mundanes. I knew them in Bangkok; a few were trans, like me. But back then I always felt too much as if I were keeping the secret of being Nephilim, and it fell like a shadow between me and other people. . . ." She sighed. "I feel like you're maybe the only person besides Catarina who really knows everything about me." Gwyn made a low, thoughtful noise. "I like everything about you that I know." And I like you, she wanted to say. She was shocked at how much she did like him, this odd faerie man with his capacity for great gentleness and equal capacity for enormous violence. She had experienced him as kind, but from Mark's stories she knew there was another side to him: the side that led the Wild Hunt on their bloody pathway between the stars. "I'm going to tell them everything," she said. "Emma and Julian. We're all stuck here in Idris together, and I love them like they were my little brother and sister. They should know." "Do it if it will bring you ease to do it," said Gwyn. "You owe them nothing; you have cared for them and helped them and they know you as who you are. None of us owe every piece of our soul's history to another." "I am doing it for me. I'll be happier." "Then by all means." Gwyn dropped a kiss on her head. Diana sat in the warm circle of his arms and thought of Livvy and how grief and contentment could share a place in the human heart. She wondered what losses Gwyn had sustained in his life. He must have had a mother, a father, brothers and sisters, but she couldn't imagine them and couldn't yet bring herself to ask. Later, when she was walking to Gwyn's horse for the return journey to Alicante, she noticed that the tips of her fingers were smudged with ash, and frowned. Ash must have blown on the wind from the pyres that morning, but still. It was very odd. She put it from her mind as Gwyn lifted her onto Orion's back and they sailed up, into the stars. The rooms in the Scholomance were neither as pleasant as the rooms in most Institutes nor as unpleasant as the ones in the Shadowhunter Academy. They were clean and bare and had, in Diego's opinion, a monkish feel. Each room came with two beds, two heavy desks, and--thanks to the absence of closets --two massive wardrobes. Due to low enrollment, Diego didn't usually have a roommate, but at the moment, Kieran lay in a grouchy lump on the floor, wrapped in blankets. Folding his arms behind his head, Diego stared at the ceiling. He'd memorized the lumps and bumps in the plaster. For the first time in his life, he didn't have the concentration to read or meditate; his mind skittered like a nervous spider over thoughts of Jaime, of Cristina, of the Dearborns and the new Inquisitor. Not to mention the unhappy faerie prince who was currently thrashing around on his floor. "How long are you planning to keep me here?" Kieran's voice was muffled. He pulled a piece of blanket away from his face and stared at the ceiling as if he could come to understand what Diego saw in it. "Keep you here?" Diego rolled onto his side. "You're not a prisoner. You can go whenever you like." "I cannot," Kieran said. "I cannot return to the Wild Hunt without bringing the wrath of the King upon the Hunt. I cannot return to Faerie, for the King will find and slay me. I cannot wander the world as a wild fey, for I will be recognized, and I do not know even now if the King is seeking me." "Why not return to the Institute in Los Angeles? Even if you're angry with Mark, Cristina would--" "It is because of Mark and Cristina that I cannot go there." Kieran's hair was changing color in the dim light, deep blue to pale white. "And I am not angry with either of them. It is only that I do not want. . ." He sat up. "Or perhaps I want too much." "We can figure it out when the time comes," Diego said. "What will be best for you." Kieran looked at him, an uncanny, sharp look that made Diego push himself up on his elbow. "Isn't that what you always do?" he said. "You decide you will find a solution when the time comes, but when the worst happens, you find yourself unprepared." Diego opened his mouth to protest when there was a sharp rap on the door. Kieran was gone in a flash, so quickly that Diego could only guess where he'd disappeared to. Diego cleared his throat and called, "Pasale!" Divya slipped into the room, followed by Rayan. They were in their uniforms, Rayan wearing a thick sweater over his. Both he and Divya had found it difficult to get used to the cold air in the Scholomance. Divya carried a witchlight, its rays illuminating her anxious expression. "Diego," she said. "Is Kieran here?" "I think he's under the bed," said Diego. "That's strange," said Rayan. He didn't look anxious, but Rayan rarely betrayed much emotion. "He could be in the wardrobe," Diego said. "Why?" "The Cohort," said Divya. "Zara and some of the others--Samantha and Manuel and Jessica--they've just Portaled in with Professor Gladstone." Kieran rolled out from under the bed. There was a dust ball in his hair. "Do they know I'm here?" He sat up, eyes gleaming. "Give me a weapon. Any weapon." "Hold on there." Divya raised a hand. "We were actually thinking of a more restrained approach. Like hiding you." "I was already hiding," Kieran pointed out. "He was under the bed," Diego said. "Yes, but since Zara Dearborn is on her way to talk to Diego, this isn't the safest room," said Rayan. "And the Cohort suspects Diego's loyalty to their cause, anyway." "They do," said Divya. "We heard them talking." She held out a hand to Kieran as if to help him up. He eyed it with surprise, then rose to his feet unassisted. "I would not kill her if she was unarmed," said Kieran. "I would challenge her to a fair fight." "Yeah, and then everyone would know you were here, including the Clave," said Divya. She snapped her fingers. "Come on. Let's go. Quit wasting time." Kieran looked slightly stunned. He cut his eyes sideways toward Diego, and Diego nodded. "It'll be safer for both of us." "As you command, then," Kieran said, and followed Rayan and Divya out of the room, the witchlight wavering over them all. They slipped into the shadows and were gone; Diego barely had time to get out of bed and shrug on a T-shirt before the door banged open. Zara stood in the doorway with her hands on her hips, glowering. Diego wondered if he should thank her for knocking but decided that she probably didn't understand sarcasm. "I'm just about fed up with you," she said. Diego leaned back against the wardrobe and crossed his arms over his chest. Zara's eyes skated over his biceps. She smirked. "I really had hope for our alliance," she said. "But you'd better straighten up and stop sympathizing with Downworlders, criminals, and ingrates." "Ingrates?" Diego echoed. "I'm only allowed to hang out with the grateful?" Zara blinked. "What?" "I'm not sure that word means what you think it means," said Diego. "English is my second language, but..." "The Blackthorns are ingrates," she clarified. "You need to drop them and everyone associated with them." Her eyes bored into him. "If you mean Cristina, we are only friends--" "I don't care. The Blackthorns are awful. Mark's a half-breed, Ty is a weird little recluse, Dru is fat and stupid, and Julian is like--like Sebastian Morgenstern." Diego burst out laughing. "He's what?" She flushed. "He raised the dead!" "He didn't, actually," said Diego, though he knew it didn't matter. The Cohort constantly changed the rules of the game when they were trying to make a point. They didn't care too much whether their evidence was accurate, nor were they going to be interested in the difference between raising the dead and just associating with them. "You'll be sorry when he's burning the world down," she said darkly. "I bet I will," said Diego. "Look, do you have anything else to say? Because it's the middle of the night and I'd like to get some sleep." "Remember why you agreed to get engaged to me in the first place," she said, with a sharp little grin. "Maybe you should have thought of what the consequences would be if I had to break it off." She turned to go, and Diego saw her pause, as if she'd caught sight of something that surprised her. She shot a last glare at him and stalked off down the corridor. There was no lock on the door. All Diego could do was kick it shut before flopping back down on his bed. He stared at the ceiling again, but this time it provided no distraction. <|title|>Chapter 6: From a Proud Tower <|startofchapter|>Emma awoke with a pounding headache to a knocking on her bedroom door. She'd fallen asleep on the floor in all her clothes; her hair was damp, sticking to her cheeks. She felt, and suspected she looked, like a shipwreck. "Come in," she called, and the door swung open. It was Julian. She sat up. For a moment they simply stared at each other. Emma felt cold all over; he would notice her blotchy face, her rumpled clothes. Even if he didn't love her, he would feel-- "You'd better get dressed and cleaned up," he said. He wore jeans and a blue sweater and looked as if he'd slept fine. He looked good, even. Like a handsome stranger, someone she didn't know. There was nothing harsh in his voice, just a calm pragmatism. She hadn't needed to worry he'd feel pity for her, she realized, or even guilt; he didn't feel anything at all. "Dane Larkspear just came by the house with a message," he said. "The Inquisitor wants to see us right away." The moment Cristina opened the door to the kitchen, Helen popped up from behind the counter, holding a ladle and smiling brightly. "Good morning!" Cristina had woken early, her body scrambled by the time difference between L.A. and Idris, and sleepwalked her way to the kitchen, meaning to throw together some toast and coffee. Helen's energetic greeting made her want to lie down and nap on the table. She would never understand morning people, especially those who functioned without a caffeine injection. "I'm making oatmeal," Helen went on. "Oh," said Cristina. She didn't really like oatmeal. "Aline's up in the office, trying to make sense of all the papers. It looks like the Centurions tore the place apart." Helen grimaced. "I know." Cristina looked longingly at the coffeemaker. Would it be rude to push past Helen and grab for the coffee beans and filter? "Don't bother," Helen said. "The Centurions left moldy coffee in the pot." She gestured toward the sink, where the coffeepot was soaking. Cristina instantly hated the Centurions even more than she had before. "Is there anything they don't ruin?" "They left laundry," Mark said, coming in with his hair wet. He must have just showered. Cristina felt the immediate and uncontrollable spark of nerves in her stomach, and sat down on a counter stool. She could still see the healing weal of skin around Mark's wrist, where the binding spell had cut him; she had one that matched. His eyes glowed in the morning sunlight, blue and gold as the heart of the ocean; she turned quickly away from looking at him and began studying a kitchen tile depicting Hector's body being dragged around the walls of Troy. "So much laundry. Piles and piles of laundry." "I'll do the laundry." Helen had moved to the stove and was stirring a pot industriously. "I'm making oatmeal." "Oh," said Mark. He met Cristina's eyes briefly. A shared moment of oatmeal dislike passed between them. More Blackthorns started piling into the kitchen: Ty, followed by Kit and then Dru and Tavvy. There was a babble of voices, and for a moment, things felt nearly normal. Nearly. Without Emma, she knew, the Institute would never be normal for her. Emma had been the first person she'd met in Los Angeles; Emma had befriended her instantly and without hesitation. Her introduction to L.A. had been going to all of Emma's favorite places, her secret beaches and canyon trails; it had been driving in the car with her with the radio on and their hair down, hot dogs at Pink's, pie at the Apple Pan at midnight. It was hard not to feel anchorless now, an unmoored boat on the tide. But she clung to what Emma had said to her: They'll need you. Mark will need you. Ty grabbed a bag of potato chips off the counter and handed it to Kit, who gave him a thumbs-up. They had a way of communicating without words, almost like Emma and Julian did. "You don't need those," Helen said. "I'm making oatmeal!" She pointed at the table with her spoon: She'd set it with matching bowls and even a vase with a sprig of wildflowers. "Oh," said Kit. "I want pancakes," announced Tavvy. "We're not staying for breakfast," said Ty. "Kit and I are going to the beach. We'll see you later." "But--" Helen began, but it was no use; they'd already left, Ty dragging Kit behind him with a firm grip on his wrist. Kit shrugged apologetically before disappearing through the door. "I hate oatmeal," said Dru. She sat down at the table, frowning. "I hate oatmeal too," said Tavvy, pushing in next to his sister. He frowned too, and for a moment the resemblance between them was almost comical. "Well, oatmeal is what there is," Helen said. "But I can make toast, too." "Not toast," said Tavvy. "Pancakes." Helen shut the stove off. For a moment she stood staring down into the pot of cooling oatmeal. In a small voice, she said, "I don't know how to make pancakes." Cristina got hurriedly off her stool. "Helen, let me help you make some eggs and toast," she said. "Julian can make pancakes," said Tavvy. Helen had made room for Cristina at the counter by the stove. Cristina handed over bread; as Helen loaded up the toaster, Cristina saw that her hands were shaking. "I really don't want eggs for breakfast," said Dru. She picked one of the flowers out of the vase on the table and plucked off its head. Petals showered down onto the table. "Come on, both of you," said Mark, going over to his younger brother and sister and ruffling their hair affectionately. "We just got back. Don't give Helen a hard time." "Well, she doesn't have to make breakfast," said Dm. "We could make our own." Helen hurried over with the plate of toast and set it on the table. Dru stared at it blankly. "Come on, Dru," she said. "Just eat the bread." Dru stiffened all over. "Don't tell me what to eat and not eat," she said. Helen flinched. Tavvy reached for the jam and upended it, shaking it until sticky jelly splattered all over his plate, the table, and his hands. He giggled. "Don't--no!" Helen said, grabbing the jam out of his hands. "Tavvy, don't do that!" "I don't have to listen to you," Tavvy said, his small face flushing. "I don't even know you." He pushed his way past Dru and bolted from the kitchen. After a moment, Dru shot Helen a reproachful look and darted after him. Helen stood where she was, holding the empty plastic jam jar, tears running down her face. Cristina's heart went out to her. All she wanted was to please her siblings, but they couldn't forgive her for not being Julian. She moved toward Helen, but Mark was already there, putting his arms around his sister, getting jam on his shirt. "It's all right," Cristina heard him say. "When I first got back, I was always messing things up. I got everything wrong...." Feeling like an intruder, Cristina slipped out of the kitchen; some family scenes were private. She headed down the hall slowly (she was sure there was a second coffeemaker in the library), half her mind on what Mark had said to Helen. She wondered if he really felt that way. She remembered the first time she'd seen him, crouched against the wall of his bedroom as the wind blew the curtains around him like sails. The bond she had felt with him had been immediate--she hadn't known him before the Hunt had taken him, and had no expectations of what he was like or who he should be. It had tied them together as strongly as the binding spell, but what if everything had changed? What if what they had was broken and could never be repaired? "Cristina!" She spun around. Mark was behind her, flushed; he'd been running to catch up to her. He stopped when she turned and hesitated a moment, looking like someone about to take a step off a high cliff. "I have to be with Helen now," he said. "But I need to talk to you. I've needed to talk to you since--for a long time. Meet me in the parking lot tonight, when the moon is high." She nodded, too surprised to say anything. By the time it occurred to her that "when the moon is high" wasn't very helpful--what if it was cloudy?-- he'd already vanished down the hall. With a sigh, she headed off to send Catarina Loss a fire-message. It had been only a few days since Robert Lightwood's death, but Horace Dearborn had already completely redecorated his office. The first thing Emma noticed was that the tapestry of the Battle of the Burren was missing. The fireplace was lit now, and over it Alec Lightwood's image had been replaced by Zara Dearborn's. It was a portrait of her in gear, her long blond-brown hair falling to her waist in two braids like a Viking's. zara dearborn, clave hero, said a gold plaque on the frame. "Subtle," Julian muttered. He and Emma had just come into Horace's office; the Inquisitor was bent over and poking around in his desk, seemingly ignoring them. The desk at least was the same, though a large sign hung behind it that announced: purity is strength, strength is victory, therefore PURITY IS VICTORY. Dearborn straightened up. '"Clave hero' might be a bit simple," he said thoughtfully, making it quite clear he'd heard Julian's comment. "I was thinking 'Modern Boadicea.' In case you don't know who she was--" "I know who Boadicea was," said Julian, seating himself; Emma followed. The chairs were new as well, with stiff upholstery. "A warrior queen of Britain." "Julian's uncle was a classical scholar," said Emma. "Ah yes, so Zara told me." Horace dropped heavily into his own seat, behind the mahogany desk. He was a big man, rawboned, with a nondescript face. Only his size was unusual--his hands were enormous, and his big shoulders pulled at the material of his uniform. They must not have had time to make one up for him yet. "Now, children. I must say I'm surprised at you two. There has always been such a . . . vibrant partnership between the Blackthorn and Carstairs families and the Clave." "The Clave has changed," said Emma. "Not all change is for the worse," said Horace. "This has been a long time coming." Julian swung his feet up, planting his boots on Horace's desk. Emma blinked. Julian had always been rebellious at heart, but rarely openly. He smiled like an angel and said, "Why don't you just tell us what you want?" Horace's eyes glinted. There was anger in them, but his voice was smooth when he spoke. "You two have really fucked up," he said. "More than you know." Emma was jolted. Shadowhunter adults, especially those in positions of authority, rarely swore in front of anyone they considered children. "What do you mean?" she said. He opened a desk drawer and took out a black leather notebook. "Robert Lightwood's notes," he said. "He took them after every meeting he had. He took them after the meeting he had with you." Julian went white; he clearly recognized the notebook. Robert must have written in it after Emma had left his office with Manuel. "I know what you told him about your relationship," Dearborn said with relish. "Parabatai in love. Disgusting. And I know what you wanted from him. Exile." Though the color had left his face, Julian's voice was steady. "I still think you should tell us what you want from us." "To fall in love with your parabatai is, shall we say, a breach of contract. The contract you've made as Nephilim, with the Clave. It desecrates our holiest of holy bonds." He set the notebook back in its drawer. "But I am not an unreasonable man. I've come up with a mutually beneficial solution to all our little problems. And a few of the big ones." "Solutions aren't usually mutually beneficial when one party has all the power," said Julian. Dearborn ignored him. "If you agree to be sent on a mission to the Land of Faerie, if you promise to find and to kill Annabel Blackthorn there and bring back the Black Volume of the Dead, I'll honor the terms Robert set out. Exile and secrecy. No one will ever know." "You can't be sure she's in Faerie--" Julian began. "You have got to be kidding," Emma said at the same time. "My sources say she's in the Unseelie Court, and no, I am not 'kidding,'" said Dearborn. "I would swear it on the Mortal Sword, if Carstairs hadn't broken it." Emma flushed. "Why do you want the Black Volume? Planning on raising some dead?" "I have no interest in some warlock's pitiable book of necromantic amusements," said Horace, "save keeping it out of the hands of Annabel Blackthorn and the King of Unseelie. Do not even consider trying to fob me off with imitations or fakes. I will know, and I will punish you. I want the Black Volume in the control of Nephilim, not Downworlders." "You must have older, more capable people who can do this?" said Julian. "This mission must be carried out with the utmost secrecy," Dearborn snapped. "Who has a better reason to keep it a secret than you?" "But time works differently in Faerie," said Julian. "We could wind up coming back ten years from now. That won't help you much." "Ah." Dearborn sat back. There was a pile of cloth behind him, in one corner of the room: Emma realized with a jolt that it was the tapestry of the Battle of the Burren, thrown away like so much trash. Strange for a man who claimed to value Nephilim history. "A long time ago, three medallions were given to the Clave by the Fair Folk. They prevent time slippage in Faerie. One is missing, but you'll be given one of the remaining two. You can return it when you yourselves come back." A medallion? Emma remembered Cristina's necklace, its power to control time in Faerie. One of them is missing -- "And how are we supposed to get back?" Emma said. "It's not as if returning from Faerie is easy for a human." "You will use the map we give you to locate a place called Bram's Crossroads," said Horace. "There you will find a friend ready to bring you home." He steepled his fingers together. "I will conceal the fact that you are not in Alicante by placing guards around the Princewater house. The word will be that you are under house arrest until the matter of the Mortal Sword is cleared up. But I must insist that you find the book and return within four days. Otherwise I may assume you decided to strike out on your own, in which case I will have no choice but to reveal your secret." "What makes you think we can do this in four days?" said Julian. "Because you have no choice," Horace replied. Emma exchanged a look with Julian. She suspected his feelings, such as they were, mirrored her own--suspicion and helplessness. They couldn't trust Horace Dearborn, but if they didn't agree to this plan, he would destroy their lives. Their Marks would be stripped. They would never see the other Blackthorns again. "There's no need for you to look so untrusting," said Dearborn. "We are in this together. None of us want Annabel Blackthorn or the Unseelie King to possess such a powerful item as the Black Volume." He gave a yellowish smile. "Besides, Julian, I thought you'd be pleased. This is your chance to kill Annabel Blackthorn and take her precious book from her. I would have thought you'd want revenge." Unable to bear the way the Inquisitor was looking at Julian, Emma stood up. "I want Cortana," she said. "It was my father's before mine, and it has belonged in my family since before Jem and Cordelia Carstairs. Give it back to me." "No," Horace said, his thin mouth flattening. "We are still investigating how it managed to shatter the Mortal Sword. We will furnish you with weapons, food, a map, and all the gear you need, but not Cortana." "Seraph blades don't work in Faerie," said Julian. "Neither will our runes." Dearborn snorted. "Then you'll be given daggers and swords and crossbows. You know we have every weapon you might need." He rose to his feet. "I don't care what you use to kill Annabel Blackthorn. Just kill her. You brought that bitch to us. It's your responsibility to rid us of her." Julian slid his boots off the desk. "When are we supposed to be leaving?" "And how will we get there?" said Emma. "That's for me to know," said Dearborn. "As for when you leave, it might as well be now. It's not as if you have anything you need to be doing in Alicante." He gestured toward the door, as if he couldn't wait to be rid of them. "Go home and retrieve whatever personal items you require. And don't waste time. Guards will be coming to get you shortly. Be ready." "Fine," Emma said. She strode over to the corner and picked up the tapestry of Alec. "But I'm keeping this." It was surprisingly heavy. Dearborn raised his eyebrows but said nothing as she staggered out of the room clutching it. "Where are we going?" Kit said. He was holding the bag of potato chips, salt and grease on his fingers. It was a weird breakfast, but he'd had weirder in his life. Besides, the ocean breeze was lifting his hair off his forehead, the beach was deserted, and he and Ty were walking into a golden haze of sand and sunshine. Despite everything, his mood was lifting. "Remember that cave?" Ty said. "The one we were in when we saw Zara talking to Manuel?" "Yeah," Kit said, and almost added, when we were with Livvy, but he knew that was what Ty meant by "we." It was a word that for him would always include Livvy. The shadow of memory fell over Kit's good mood: He remembered that night, Livvy laughing, Ty holding up a starfish--the salt air had tangled his usually straight hair, and his eyes had echoed the silver color of the moon. He had been smiling, his real, shining Ty-smile. Kit had felt closer to the two of them than he had ever felt to anyone else. "Wait--why are we going there?" They had reached the part of the beach where long fingers of pocked granite reached out into the ocean. The waves rushed in from the sea, slamming against the rocks, whipping themselves up into white-silver spray. Ty reached into the bag of chips, his arm brushing against Kit's. "Because we need help to do necromancy. We can't do it on our own." "Please tell me we don't need help from an army of the dead. I hate armies of the dead." "Not an army of the dead. Hypatia Vex." Kit nearly dropped the chips. "Hypatia Vex? The warlock from London?" "Yep," said Ty. "Keep up, Watson." "That's not a 'keep up,'" said Kit. "How would I know you contacted her? I didn't think she liked us very much." "Does it matter?" "You make a good point." Kit stopped, sand kicking up around his sneakers. "Here we are." The dark hole in the bluff opened up in front of them. Ty paused too, rooting around in the pocket of his hoodie. "I have something for you." Kit rolled up the bag of chips and stashed it behind a rock. "You do?" Ty produced a small white stone, about the size of a golf ball, with a rune etched into it. "Your witchlight rune-stone. Every Shadowhunter has one." He took Kit's hand unselfconsciously and pressed the stone into his palm. A hot flutter went through Kit's stomach, surprising him. He'd never felt anything like it before. "Thanks," he said. "How do I activate it?" "Close your fingers around it and think of light," said Ty. "Imagine a light switch flicking on; that's what Julian said to me. Come on--I'll show you." Kit held the stone awkwardly as they headed up the path to the cave entrance. A few steps into the cave and the darkness enveloped them like velvet, muffling the sound of the waves outside. Kit could barely see Ty, the shadow of a shadow beside him. Like flicking a switch, he thought, and closed his fingers around the rune- stone. It gave a little kick in his palm, and light rayed out, illuminating the familiar stone corridor. It was much as it had been before, rough-walled and spidery, reminding Kit of the underground tunnels in the first Indiana Jones movie. At least this time they knew where they were going. They followed the curve of the tunnel around a bend, into an enormous stone chamber. The walls were granite, though black lines scored through them showed where they had cracked long ago. The room smelled like something sweet-- probably the smoke that rose from the candles placed on the wooden table in the room's center. A hooded figure in a black robe, its face lost in shadow, sat where Zara had been sitting the last time they'd been here. "Hypatia?" said Ty, stepping forward. The figure raised a single, silencing finger. Both Kit and Ty hesitated as two gloved hands rose to push back the enveloping hood. Ty licked his dry lips. "You're--not Hypatia." He turned to Kit. "That's not her." "No," Kit agreed. "Seems to be a green fellow with horns." "I'm not Hypatia, but she did send me," said the warlock. "We have met before, the three of us. In the Shadow Market in London." Kit remembered quickly moving green-tinted hands. I have to say I never thought I'd have the pleasure of entertaining the Lost Herondale. "Shade," he said. The warlock looked amused. "Not my real name, but it'll do." Ty was shaking his head. "I want to deal with Hypatia," he said. "Not you." Shade leaned back in his chair. "Most warlocks won't touch necromancy," he said quietly. "Hypatia isn't any different; in fact, she's smarter than most. She wants to run the Shadow Market herself one day, and she's not going to endanger her chances." Ty's expression seemed to splinter, like the cracked face of a statue. "I never said anything about necromancy--" "Your twin sister just died," said Shade. "And you reach out to a warlock with a desperate request. It doesn't take a genius to guess what you want." Kit put his hand on Ty's shoulder. "We don't have to stay here," he said. "We can just leave--" "No," said Shade. "Hear me out first, little Shadowhunters, if you wish for my help. I understand. Grief makes people mad. You search for a way to end it." "Yes," said Ty. "I want to bring my sister back. I will bring my sister back." Shade's dark eyes were flinty. "You want to raise the dead. Do you know how many people want to do that? It's not a good plan. I suggest you drop it. I could help you out with something else. Have you ever wanted to move objects with your mind?" "Sure," said Kit. "That sounds great." Anything but this. "I have the Black Volume of the Dead," said Ty. "Or at least, I have a copy." He didn't seem to recognize the absolute astonishment on Shade's face, but Kit saw it. It increased both his pride in Ty and, at the same time, his apprehension. "Well," said Shade finally. "That's better than the real thing." Odd thing to say, Kit thought. "So it's not the spells we need help with," said Ty. "We need your help in gathering spell components. Some are easy to get, but Shadowhunters aren't welcome at the Shadow Market, so if you could go, I could give you money, or we have a lot of valuable weapons in the Institute--" Kit was pleased. "I thought about selling those once, myself." Shade held up his gloved hands. "No," he said. "I'll help you, all right, but it won't be fast, and it won't be easy." "Good," said Ty, but Kit was instantly suspicious. "Why?" said Kit. "Why would you help us? You don't approve--" "I don't," said Shade. "But if it isn't me, it'll be someone else, some other warlock with fewer scruples. At least I can make sure you do this as cleanly as possible. I can show you how to cast the spell properly. I can get you a catalyst --a clean energy source that won't corrupt what you do." "But you won't go to the Shadow Market?" said Kit. "The spell only works if the spell caster collects the components themselves," said Shade. "And you'll be the one casting this spell, even if you need me to direct you. So whatever is between you two and the people of the Shadow Market--and I saw some of it myself, so I know it's personal--clean it up." His voice was gruff. "You're clever, you can figure it out. When you've got what you need, come back to me. I'll remain here in the cave for as long as you're committed to this insane project. But send a note if you're planning on dropping by. I like my privacy." Ty's face was alight with relief, and Kit knew what he was thinking: This was step one accomplished, one move closer to getting Livvy back. Shade looked at him and shook his head, his white hair gleaming in the candlelight. "Of course, if you reconsider, and I never hear from you again, that will be even better," he added. "Consider this, children. Some lights were never meant to burn for long." He closed his gloved fingers around the wick of the largest candle, extinguishing it. A plume of white smoke rose toward the ceiling. Kit glanced at Ty again, but he hadn't reacted; he might not even have heard Shade. He was smiling to himself: not the blazing smile Kit had missed on the beach, but a quiet, private smile. If we go forward, I have to shoulder this alone, Kit thought. Any guilt, any apprehension. It's only mine. He glanced away from the warlock before Shade could see the doubt in his eyes. Some lights were never meant to bum for long. "I can't believe the Centurions left such a mess," Helen said. For years, Helen had promised Aline that she would take her on a full tour of the Institute and show her all her favorite places from her childhood. But Helen's mind was only partly on showing Aline around. Some of it was on the destruction wrought by the Centurions inside the Institute--towels left everywhere, stains on the tables, and old food rotting in the fridge in the kitchen. Some of it was on the message she'd paid a faerie to take to her aunt Nene in the Seelie Court. But most of it was on her family. "Those jerks aren't what's really bothering you," said Aline. They were standing on an overlook some distance from the Institute. From here you could see the desert, carpeted with wildflowers and green scrub, and the ocean as well, blue and gleaming below. There had been ocean at Wrangel Island, cold and icy and beautiful, but in no way welcoming. This was the sea of Helen's childhood--the sea of long days spent splashing in the waves with her sisters and brothers. "You can tell me anything, Helen." "They hate me," Helen said in a small voice. "Who hates you?" Aline demanded. "I'll kill them." "My brothers and sister," said Helen. "Please don't kill them, though." Aline looked stunned. "What do you mean, they hate you?" "Ty ignores me," said Helen. "Dru snarls at me. Tavvy despises that I'm not Julian. And Mark--well, Mark doesn't hate me, but his mind seems far away. I can't drag him into this." Aline crossed her arms and stared thoughtfully at the ocean. This was one of the things Helen loved about her wife. If Helen said something was the case, Aline would consider it from all angles; she was never dismissive. "I told Julian to tell all the kids I was happy on Wrangel Island," said Helen. "I didn't want them to worry. But now--I think they believe I spent all these years not caring about being separated from them. They don't know how much I missed them. They don't know how horrible I feel that Julian had to shoulder all that responsibility, for all those years. I didn't know." "The thing is," said Aline, "they don't just see you as replacing Julian as the person who takes care of them. You also stepped into their lives just as Livvy left them." "But I also loved Livvy! I also miss her--" "I know," Aline said gently. "But they're just children. They're grief stricken and lashing out. They don't know this is why they feel angry. They just feel it." "I can't do this." Helen tried to keep her voice steady, but it was nearly impossible. She hoped the strain would be covered by the sound of the waves crashing below them, but Aline knew her too well. She could sense when Helen was upset, even when she was trying hard not to show it. "It's too hard." "Baby." Aline moved closer, wrapping her arms around Helen, brushing her lips softly with her own. "You can. You can do anything." Helen relaxed into her wife's arms. When she'd first met Aline, she'd thought the other girl was taller than she was, but she'd realized later it was the way Aline held herself, arrow straight. The Consul, her mother, held herself the same way, and with the same pride--not that either of them was arrogant, but the word seemed a shade closer to what Helen imagined than simple confidence. She remembered the first love note Aline had ever written her. The world is changed because you are made of ivory and gold. The curves of your lips rewrite history. Later, she'd found out it was an Oscar Wilde quote, and had said to Aline, smiling, You've got a lot of nerve. Aline had looked back at her steadily. I know. I do. They both had, always, and it had stood them in good stead. But this wasn't a situation where nerve mattered so much as patience. Helen had expected her younger brothers and sister to love her; she had needed it, in a way. Now she realized she had to show them her love first. "In a way, their anger means good things," said Aline. "It means they know you'll always love them, no matter what. Eventually they'll stop testing you." "Is there any way to speed up 'eventually'?" "Would thinking about it as 'someday' help?" Helen sniffled a laugh. "No." Aline stroked her shoulder gently. "It was worth a try." There were a dozen or more guards posted when Emma and Julian returned to the house. It was a bright day, and sun sparkled off the swords slung over their shoulders and the water in the canal. As they went up the stairs, Dane Larkspear was slouching against one side of the doorway, his whippety face pale under a shock of black hair. He winked at Emma as Julian, ignoring him, reached for his stele. "Nice to see you." "Can't say the same," said Emma. "Where's your evil twin? And I mean that literally. She's your twin, and she's evil." "Yeah, I got that," said Dane, rolling his eyes. "Samantha's at the Scholomance. And you've got guests." Emma tensed. "In the house? Isn't the point of guards to keep them out?" Dane chuckled. "Please. The point of us is to keep you in." Julian scrawled an unlocking rune on the door and gave Dane a dark look. "Fifteen against two?" Dane's smirk got wider. "Just showing you who's in power," he said. "We control the odds. I don't feel bad about that at all." "You wouldn't," Julian said, and stalked into the house. "Just in case I wasn't feeling really crappy about this situation already," Emma muttered, and followed Julian. She was wary--she hadn't liked the way Dane had said the word "guests." She closed the front door slowly, hand on the hilt of the dagger in her weapons belt. She heard Julian call her name. "In the kitchen," he said. "It's all right, Emma." Usually she trusted Julian more than she trusted herself. But things were different now. She went carefully toward the kitchen, only dropping her hand from the dagger when she saw Isabelle seated on the kitchen table, her long legs crossed. She was wearing a short velvet coat and a long tulle skirt. The bright glint of silver jewelry shone on her wrists and ankles. Simon was seated at one of the kitchen chairs, elbows on the table, sunglasses pushed up on his head. "Hope you don't mind," he said. "The guards let us in." "Not at all," said Julian, leaning against one of the counters. "I'm just surprised they agreed." "Friendly persuasion," said Isabelle, and smiled a smile that was mostly teeth. "The Cohort doesn't have all the power yet. We still know a lot of people in high places." "Where were you?" Simon inquired. "The guards wouldn't tell us anything." "The Inquisitor wanted to talk to us," said Emma. Simon frowned. "Dearborn? You mean he wanted to interrogate you?" "Not exactly." Emma took off her jacket and slung it over a chair back. "He had a favor he wanted us to do. But what are you doing here?" Isabelle and Simon exchanged a glance. "We have some bad news," Simon said. Emma stared harder at both of them. Izzy looked tired, Simon tense, but that wasn't surprising. She could only imagine how she looked herself. "My brothers and sisters--" Julian began, his voice tight, and Emma glanced at him; she remembered what he'd said about climbing up the pyre after Ty; it was atavistic, the need to protect him, there was no conscious thought to it. "Nothing like that," said Simon. "Jace and Clary didn't come back at the appointed time." Speechless, Emma sank into a chair opposite Simon. "That's interesting," Julian said. "What do you think happened?" Simon looked at him oddly. Isabelle nudged him with her knee, and through her surprise and worry Emma heard her mutter something about how Julian's sister just died, he was probably still in shock. "Maybe they're just late because of the time being different in Faerie," said Emma. "Or did they get one of the medallions?" "They're not affected by the time magic in Faerie, because of their angel blood," said Isabelle. "That's why the Clave chose to send them. Their runes still work, even in the blighted lands." She frowned. "What medallions?" "Oh." Emma exchanged a look with Julian. "The Clave has medallions that prevent time slippage in Faerie. Dearborn gave us one." Isabelle and Simon exchanged a bewildered glance. "What? Why would they give you--?" "The favor that Dearborn asked us to do," said Julian. "It involved traveling to Faerie." Simon straightened up. His face had gone tight-jawed, in a way that reminded Emma that he wasn't just Isabelle Lightwood's mild-mannered fiance. He was a hero in his own right. He'd faced down the Angel Raziel himself. Few besides Clary could say that. "He did what?" "I'll explain," said Julian, and he did, with a dry economy uncolored by emotion. Nevertheless, when he was done, both Isabelle and Simon looked furious. "How dare he," said Simon. "How can he think--" "But he's the Inquisitor now. He'd know Clary and Jace haven't come back," interrupted Isabelle. "The Clave knows it's dangerous, especially now. Why would he send you?" "Because Annabel escaped into Faerie, and he thinks Annabel is our problem," said Emma. "It's ridiculous; you guys are just kids," Simon said. Isabelle kicked him lightly. "We did a lot when we were kids." "Because we had to," said Simon. "Because we had no choices." He turned back to Emma and Julian. "We can get you out of here. We can hide you." "No," Julian said. "He means that we don't have choices either," said Emma. "There's too much chance of the Black Volume being put to terrible use, either by Annabel or the Unseelie King. There's no telling who might get hurt, and we have the best chance of finding the book. No one else has dealt with Annabel for centuries--in a weird way, Julian knows her the best." "And we can look for Jace and Clary. It's not like Horace is going to send anyone else to find them," said Julian. Isabelle looked flinty. "Because he's a jerk, you mean?" "Because he doesn't like the support they have, or the way people look up to them and Alec and you guys," said Julian. "The longer they're gone, the better for him. He wants to consolidate power--he doesn't need heroes coming back. I'm sure Jia will try to help, but he won't make it easy for her. He can always throw delays in her path." Julian was very pale, and his eyes looked like the blue sea glass in his bracelet. Her parabatai might not be feeling anything himself, Emma thought, but he still understood other people's feelings, almost too well. He had made the one argument Simon and Isabelle wouldn't be able to push back against: Clary and Jace's safety. Still, Simon tried. "We can figure out something ourselves," he said. "Some way to look for them. The offer to hide you still stands." "They'll take it out on my family if I disappear," Julian said. "This is a new Clave." "Or maybe just what was always hiding under the old one," said Emma. "Can you swear you won't tell anyone, not even Jia, about us going to Faerie?" No one can know. If Jia confronts Horace, he'll tell her our secret. Simon and Isabelle looked troubled, but they both promised. "When are they asking you to leave?" said Isabelle. "Soon," said Julian. "We just came back here to pack our things." Simon muttered a curse. Isabelle shook her head, then bent down and unclipped a chain from one slender ankle. She held it out to Emma. "This is blessed iron. Poisonous to faeries. Wear it and you can pack a hell of a kick." "Thanks." Emma took the chain and wrapped it twice around her wrist, fastening it tightly. "Do I have anything iron?" Simon looked around wildly, then reached into his pocket and pulled out a small miniature figure of an archer. "This is my D&D character, Lord Montgomery--" "Oh my God," said Isabelle. "Most figurines are pewter, but this one's iron. I got it on Kickstarter." Simon held it out to Julian. "Just take it. It could be helpful." "I don't understand about half of what you just said, but thanks," said Jules, pocketing the toy. There was an awkward silence. It was Isabelle who broke it, her dark gaze passing from Julian to Emma, and back again. "Thank you," she said. "Both of you. This is an incredibly brave thing to do." She took a deep breath. "When you find Clary and Jace, and I know you will, tell Jace about Robert. He should know what's happened to his family." <|title|>Chapter 7: Stone Flowers <|startofchapter|>It was a clear California night, with a warm wind blowing inland from the desert, and the moon was bright and very definitely high in the sky when Cristina slipped out the back door of the Institute and hesitated on the top step. It had been an odd evening--Helen and Aline had made spaghetti and left the pot on the stove so anyone who liked could come along and serve themselves. Cristina had eaten with Kit and Ty, who were bright-eyed and distant, caught up in their own world; at some point Dru had come in with bowls and put them in the sink. "I had dinner with Tavvy in his room," she'd announced, and Cristina--feeling completely at sea--had stammered something about how she was glad they'd eaten. Mark hadn't appeared at all. Cristina had waited until midnight before putting on a dress and denim jacket and going to see Mark. It was strange to have her own clothes back, her room with its arbol de vida, her own sheets and blankets. It wasn't quite coming home, but it was close. She paused at the top of the stairs. In the distance, the waves swayed and crashed. She'd stood here once and watched as Kieran and Mark kissed each other, Kieran holding Mark as if he were everything in the world. It felt like a long time ago now. She moved down the steps, the wind catching at the hem of her pale yellow dress, making it bell out like a flower. The "parking lot" was really a large rectangle of raked sand where the Institute's car spent its time--at least the Centurions didn't seem to have set it on fire, which was something. Near the lot were statues of Greek and Roman philosophers and playwrights, glowing palely under the stars, placed there by Arthur Blackthorn. They seemed out of place in the scrubby chaparral of the Malibu hills. "Lady of Roses," said a voice behind her. Kieran! she thought, and turned. And of course, it wasn't Kieran--it was Mark, tousled pale blond hair and blue jeans and a flannel shirt, which he'd buttoned slightly wrong. The Markness of him made her flush, partly at his nearness and partly that she'd thought for a moment that he might be someone else. It was just that Kieran was the only one who called her Lady of Roses. "I cannot bear all this iron," Mark said, and he sounded more tired than she had ever heard anyone sound. "I cannot bear these inside spaces. And I have missed you so much. Will you come into the desert with me?" Cristina remembered the last time they were in the desert and what he had said. He had touched her face: Am I imagining you? I was thinking about you, and now here you are. Faeries couldn't lie, but Mark could, and yet it was his painful honesty that caught at Cristina's heart. "Of course I will," she said. He smiled, and it lit up his face. He cut across the parking lot, Cristina beside him, following a nearly invisible trail between tangled scrub and fern- shrouded boulders. "I used to walk here all the time when I was younger," he said. "Before the Dark War. I used to come here to think about my problems. Brood about them, whatever you want to call it." "What problems?" she teased. "Romantic ones?" He laughed. "I never really dated anyone back then," he said. "Vanessa Ashdown for about a week, but just--well, she wasn't very nice. Then I had a crush on a boy who was in the Conclave, but his family moved back to Idris after the Mortal War, and now I don't remember his name." "Oh dear," she said. "Do you look at boys in Idris now and think 'that might be him'?" "He'd be twenty now," said Mark. "For all I know he's married and has a dozen children." "At twenty?" said Cristina. "He'd have to have been having triplets every year for four years!" "Or two sets of sextuplets," said Mark. "It could happen." They were both laughing now, softly, in the way of people who were just glad to be with each other. I missed you, he had said, and for a moment Cristina let herself forget the past days and be happy to be with Mark in the beautiful night. She had always loved the stark lines of deserts: the gleaming tangles of sagebrush and thornbushes, the massive shadows of mountains in the distance, the smell of sugar pines and incense cedar, the golden sand turned silver by moonlight. As they reached the flat top of a steep-sided hill, the ground fell away below them and she could see the ocean in the distance, its wind-touched shimmer reaching to the horizon in a dream of silver and black. "This is one of my favorite places." Mark sank down onto the sand, leaning back on his hands. "The Institute and the highway are hidden and the whole world goes away. It's just you and the desert." She sat down beside him. The sand was still warm from the sunlight it had absorbed during the day. She dug her toes in, glad she'd worn sandals. "Is this where you used to do your thinking?" He didn't answer. He seemed to have become absorbed in looking at his own hands; they were scarred lightly all over, calloused like any Shadowhunter's, his Voyance rune stark on his right hand. "It's all right," she said. "It's all right for you not to be able to stand the iron, or inside spaces, or closed rooms or the sight of the ocean or anything at all. Your sister just died. There is nothing you could feel that would be wrong." His chest hitched with an uneven breath. "What if I told you--if I told you that I am grieving for my sister, but since I five years ago decided she was dead, that all my family was dead, that I have already grieved her in a way? That my grief is different than the grief of the rest of my family, and therefore I cannot talk to them about it? I lost her and then I gained her and lost her again. It is more as if the having of her was a brief dream." "It might be that it is easier to think of it that way," she said. "When I lost Jaime--though it is not the same--but when he disappeared, and our friendship ended, I grieved for him despite my anger, and then I began to wonder sometimes if perhaps I had dreamed him. No one else spoke of him, and I thought perhaps he had never existed." She drew up her knees, locking her arms around them. "And then I came here, and no one knew him at all, and it was even more as if he had never been." Mark was looking at her now. He was silver and white in the moonlight and so beautiful to her that her heart broke a little. "He was your best friend." "He was going to be my parabatai." "So you did not just lose him," Mark said. "You lost that Cristina. The one with a parabatai." "And you have lost that Mark," she said. "The one who was Livia's brother." His smile was wry. "You are wise, Cristina." She tensed against the feelings that rose in her at the sight of his smile. "No. I'm very foolish." His gaze sharpened. "And Diego. You lost him, too." "Yes," she said. "And I had loved him--he was my first love." "But you don't love him now?" His eyes had darkened; blue and gold to a deeper black. "You shouldn't have to ask," she whispered. He reached for her; her hair was down and loose, and he took a lock of it and wound it around his finger, his touch impossibly gentle. "I needed to know," he said. "I needed to know if I could kiss you and it would be all right." She couldn't speak; she nodded, and he wound his hands into her hair, lifted a handful of strands to his face, and kissed them. "Lady of Roses," he whispered. "Your hair, like black roses. I have been wanting you." Want me, then. Kiss me. Everything. Everything, Mark. Her thoughts dissolved as he leaned into her; when she murmured against his mouth, it was in Spanish. "Be'same, Mark." They sank backward into the sand, entwined, his hands running through her hair. His mouth was warm on hers and then hot, and the gentleness was gone, replaced by a fierce intensity. It was gorgeously like falling; he drew her under him, the sand cradling her body, and her hands ran over him, touching all the places she'd ached to touch: his hair, the arch of his back, the wings of his shoulder blades. He was already so much more present than he had been when he'd first come to the Institute, when he'd looked as if a high wind might blow him away. He'd gained weight, put on muscle, and she enjoyed the solidity of him, the long elegant muscles that curved along his spine, the breadth and warmth of his shoulders. She ran her hands up under his shirt where his skin was smooth and burning hot, and he gasped into her mouth. "Te adoro" he whispered, and she giggled. "Where did you learn that?" "I looked it up," he said, cupping the back of her neck, brushing kisses along her cheek, her jaw. "It's true. I adore you, Cristina Mendoza Rosales, daughter of mountains and roses." "I adore you, too," she whispered. "Even though your accent is terrible, I adore you, Mark Blackthorn, son of thorns." She smoothed her hand along his face and smiled. "Though you are not so prickly." "Would you rather I had a beard?" Mark teased, rubbing his cheek against hers, and she giggled and whispered to him that his shirt was buttoned wrong. "I can fix that," he said, and pulled it off; she heard some of the buttons pop and hoped it hadn't been a favorite shirt. She marveled at his lovely bare skin, flecked with scars. His eyes deepened in color; they were black as the depths of the ocean now, both the blue and the gold. "I love the way you look at me," he said. Both of them had stopped giggling; she ran the flat of her palms down his bare chest, his stomach, to the belt of his jeans, and he half-closed his eyes. His own hands went to the buttons that ran down the front of her dress. She continued to touch him as he undid them, neck to hem, until the dress fell away and she was lying on it in only her bra and underwear. She would have expected to feel self-conscious. She always had with Diego. But Mark was looking at her as if he were stunned, as if he had unwrapped a present and found it to be the one thing he'd always wanted. "May I touch you?" he said, and when she said yes, he exhaled a shaky breath. He lowered himself slowly over her, kissing her mouth, and she wrapped her legs around his hips, the desert air on her bare skin like silk. He trailed a path of kisses down her throat; he kissed her where the wind touched her skin, on her belly and breasts, the peaks of her hips. By the time he slid back up her body to her mouth she was shaking. I want to touch him, I have to, she thought hazily; she slipped her hand down his body and under the waistband of his jeans. He inhaled sharply, murmuring between kisses for her not to stop. His body kept time with the movement of her hand, his hips pressing harder and harder against her. Until he pulled away, sitting up, his breath coming in harsh gasps. "We have to stop--or it'll be over noiu," he said, sounding more human and less faerie than she remembered him ever sounding before. "You told me not to stop," she pointed out, smiling at him. "Did I?" he said, looking surprised. "I want it to be good for you, too, Cristina," he said. "I don't know what you and Diego--" "We didn't," she interrupted. "I'm a virgin." "You are?" He looked absolutely shocked. "I wasn't ready," she said. "Now, I'm ready." "I just thought--you'd been dating a long time--" "Not all relationships are about sex," she said, and then wondered if making that statement while lying half-naked on a hill made it slightly more unconvincing. "People should only have sex if they want to, and I do want to, with you." "And I want to with you," he said, his eyes softening. "But do you have the rune?" The rune. The birth control rune. Cristina had never put it on; she'd never thought she was that close to needing it. "Oh, no," she said. "My stele is down in the Institute." "Mine as well," he said. Cristina almost giggled at the disappointed look on his face, though she felt the same. "Still," he said, brightening. "There is much else I can do to make you feel good. Allow me?" Cristina settled back into the sand, feeling as if she might die from blushing. "All right." He came back into her arms, and they held each other and kissed through the night, and he touched her and showed her he did indeed know how to make her feel good--so good she shook in his arms and muffled her cries against his shoulder. And she did the same for him, and this time he didn't ask her to stop, but arched his back and cried out her name, whispering afterward that he adored her, that she made him feel whole. They decided to return to the Institute when dawn began to turn the sky rose-colored, and fingers of light illuminated their hilltop mesa. They wandered back down the path holding hands, and only unlinked their fingers when they reached the back door of the Institute. It stuck when Mark pushed on it, and he took his stele out to scrawl a quick Open rune on the wood. It popped open, and he held it for Cristina, who slipped past him into the entryway. She felt incredibly disheveled, with sand stuck to half her body, and her hair a tangled mess. Mark didn't look much better, especially considering that most of the buttons had been ripped off his shirt. He smiled at her, a heart-meltingly sweet smile. "Tomorrow night--" "You have your stele," Cristina said. He blinked. "What?" "You have your stele. You told me that you didn't, when I needed to make the birth control rune. But you just used it to open the door." He glanced away from her, and any hope Cristina had that he'd simply forgotten or been wrong vanished. "Cristina, I--" "I just don't know why you lied to me," she said. She turned away from him and walked up the stairs that led to her room. Her body had been humming with happiness; now she felt dazed and sticky and in need of a shower. She heard Mark call after her, but she didn't turn around. Diego was asleep and dreaming restlessly about pools of blue water in which a dead woman floated. So he was only a little bit upset to be woken by the impact of a flying boot. He sat up, reaching automatically for the ax propped next to his bed. The next thing that hit him was a ball of socks, which didn't hurt but was annoying. "What?" he sputtered. "What's going on?" "Wake up," said Divya. "By the Angel, you snore like an outboard motor." She gestured at him. "Put your clothes on." "Why?" said Diego, in what he felt was a very reasonable manner. "They took Kieran," Divya said. "Who took Kieran?" Diego was up, grabbing a sweater and jamming his feet into socks and boots. "The Cohort," Divya said. She looked as if she'd just woken up herself; her thick dark hair was tangled, and she wore a gear jacket unbuttoned over her uniform. "They burst into my room and grabbed him. We tried to fight them off, but there were too many." Diego's heart raced: Kieran had been under his protection. If he was harmed, Diego would have failed, not just Cristina but himself. He grabbed for his ax. "Diego, stop," Divya said. "You can't ax Manuel to death. He's still a student." "Fine. I'll take a shorter blade." Diego shoved the ax back against the wall with a clang and reached for a dagger. "Where did they take Kieran?" "The Place of Reflection, or at least that's what they said," said Divya. "Rayan's out looking for them. Come on." Diego shook the last cobwebs of sleep from his head and bolted after Divya. They jogged down the corridors, calling for Rayan. "The Place of Reflection," said Diego. "That doesn't sound so bad. Is this a room for quiet meditation, or--?" "No. You don't understand. It's called the Place of Reflection because there's a reflecting pool in it, but it isn't a regular reflecting pool. Some people call it the Hollow Place." Oh. Diego did know of the Hollow Place, a secret room where, it was said, a pool had been filled with enchanted water. To gaze into the water was to gaze into your own soul: to see all the evil you had ever done, intentionally or otherwise. "It's awful for anyone," said Divya. "And for someone in the Wild Hunt, it could kill them." "What?" They turned a corner and encountered a blaze of light. It was Rayan, standing in the middle of a long corridor, wearing a grim expression. He had a massive sword strapped to his back. "They just went into the Hollow Place," he said. "I couldn't follow them--I don't have my stele on me. Do either of you?" "I do," said Diego, and they jogged down a short, sloping hallway to a set of closed doors. Loud giggles spilled out from inside the room. Diego scrawled a quick Open rune on the door. It wrenched open with a puff of rust and they charged inside. The Hollow Place was a wide space with granite floors, clear of any furniture. The walls were rough rock, glittering with mica. In the center of the room was a tile-lined pool with water so clear and clean it reflected like a mirror. Gold metal lettering decorated the floor: And God split open the hollow place, and water came out from it. "Well, thank the Angel," drawled Manuel, who was leaning against a far wall in a pose of total disinterest. "Look who's here to save us all." Zara giggled. She was surrounded by a group of other Cohort members-- among them Diego recognized several Scholomance students and their family members. Mallory Bridgestock and Milo Coldridge. Anush Joshi, Divya's cousin. Several Centurions were there too: Timothy Rockford, Samantha Larkspear, and Jessica Beausejours were standing around smirking while Anush dragged Kieran toward the pool in the center of the room. Kieran was jerking and twisting in his grip; there was blood on his face, his shirt. "It's a fair punishment for the princeling, don't you think?" said Zara. "If you look or swim in the water of the pool, you feel the pain you've inflicted on others. So if he's innocent, it should be just fine for him." "No one is that innocent," said Rayan. "The pool is to be used sparingly, to allow students to seek for truth within themselves. Not as a torture device." "What an interesting thought, Rayan," said Manuel. "Thank you for sharing. But I don't see Gladstone running in here to stop us, do you? Is it possible you didn't want to get in trouble for harboring a faerie fugitive?" "I think it's interesting you know so much about Kieran," said Divya. "Is it possible you knew he was here and didn't want to report it so you could torture and kill him yourself?" She was right, Diego thought, but none of this was helping Kieran, who was gagging and choking on his own blood. I swore I would protect him. Diego reached for his ax, only to realize it wasn't there. He saw Zara's eyes narrow and turned; Divya had yanked Rayan's sword from its scabbard and was pointing it at the Cohort. "Enough," she said. "Stop it, all of you. And I'm especially ashamed of you, Anush," she added, shooting her cousin a dark look. "You know what it's like to be treated unfairly. When your mother finds out..." Anush let Kieran go with a shove. He landed at the edge of the pool with a grunt of agony. Move away from the water, Diego thought, but Kieran was clearly wounded; he knelt in place, dazed and gasping. "We're just having a little fun," protested Anush. "What are you going to do, Divya, attack us?" said Samantha. "Just for having a little fun?" "He's bleeding," said Diego. "That's more than just 'a little fun.' And what happens if you kill him? Do you really want to deal with the consequences? He's the son of the Unseelie King." There was a rumble of discontent among the Cohort. Clearly they'd never thought about that. "Fine, fine," said Zara. "Be killjoys. But I knew he was here, hiding out in your room," she said to Diego. "I saw a hollowed acorn on your floor. So this is your fault. If you hadn't brought him here, none of this would have happened." "Give it a rest, Zara," said Divya, still holding the sword levelly. "Diego, go get Kieran." Diego started across the room, just as Manuel spoke. "Why don't you look in the water yourself, Rocio Rosales?" he said. "If you think your soul is so clean. It should be painless for you." "Cdllate la pinche boca," Diego snapped, nearly at Kieran's side; the faerie prince was coughing, blood on his lips. He'd started to pull himself upright when Manuel moved with the speed of a snake: Planting a boot in Kieran's back, he kicked him into the water. Diego lunged forward, catching at the back of Kieran's shirt, but not before Kieran had gotten a faceful of pool water. Diego yanked him out, coughing and gasping, and tried to set him on his feet; Kieran staggered and Rayan caught him. "Just get out," Samantha said, striding toward them. "When the Inquisitor hears about this--" "Samantha!" Jessica called in alarm, but it was too late; Samantha had slipped on the water at the edge of the pool and tumbled in with a scream. "By the Angel." Divya lowered her sword, staring. "Is she--" Samantha surfaced, screaming. It was a terrible scream, as if she were dying, or watching someone she loved die. It was a scream of horror and revulsion and misery. The Cohort members stood stunned; only a few moved toward Samantha. Hands reached into the water, grasped her arms, and drew her out. Kieran's hands. Still coughing blood, he deposited Samantha on the side of the pool. She rolled over, retching and gagging water, as Zara shoved herself between Samantha and the faerie prince. "Get away from her," she snarled at Kieran. He turned and limped toward Diego. Diego caught Kieran as he nearly collapsed. The Cohort was occupied with Samantha; there was no time to waste. As Diego hurried from the room, half-supporting Kieran between himself and Rayan, Divya following with her sword, he was almost sure he could hear Manuel laughing. "Okay," Julian said. "Let's see what we've got." They were in what Emma could only describe as a glade. Glades were the sort of thing she didn't have a lot of experience with--there weren't too many in L.A.--but this was definitely one: open and grassy, surrounded by trees, filled with sunlight and the low humming of what might have been insects or tiny pixies. You never could tell in Faerie. She was still dizzy from the trip through the faerie gate, buried deep in the woods of Brocelind Forest. How Horace had known about it, she couldn't guess. Perhaps it was information given to all the high officials of the Clave. He had been impatient, nearly shoving them through without ceremony, but not too impatient to give Emma the medallion, and both of them black rucksacks packed with weapons, gear, and food. The last thing he'd said was: "Remember, you're heading toward the Unseelie Court. Follow the map." A map wouldn't work in Faerie, Emma had thought, but Horace had shoved her toward the gate of twisted branches, and a moment later she was thudding to her knees on green grass and the scent of Faerie air was in her nose and mouth. She reached up a hand and touched the medallion. It didn't have an angel on it, like Cristina's; in fact, it looked as if it had once borne a Shadowhunter family crest that had since been scratched away. Otherwise it looked much like the Rosales necklace. It made a comforting weight at the base of her throat. "The Clave packed us sandwiches," Julian said, fishing around in his rucksack. "I guess for today, because they won't keep. There's cheese, bread, dried meat, and fruit. Some bottles of water." Emma moved closer to him to see what he was unpacking and spreading on the grass. He'd taken out two gray blankets, an assortment of weapons-- they also carried weapons on their belts--and folded clothes. When Julian shook them out, they turned out to be smooth linen in earth tones, fastened with laces and loops, no zippers or buttons. "Faerie clothes," Emma said. "It's a good idea," said Julian. Both outfits consisted of a long overshirt, trousers that laced up the front, and vests made of tough hide. "We should change. The longer we stand around in Shadowhunter gear, the longer we're a target." Emma took the smaller set of clothes and went behind a copse of trees to change. She wished she could have asked Julian to go with her, especially when she was hopping on one foot, pulling on her trousers with one hand while gripping her weapons belt with the other. She'd rarely felt more vulnerable to attack, but even though Julian had seen her with no clothes on at all, it felt awkward now. She wasn't sure how this new Julian, the one without feelings, would react, and wasn't sure she wanted to know. The faerie clothes were comfortable at least, soft and loose. When she emerged from the trees, she stood blinking in the bright sunlight for a moment, looking for Julian. She saw him as he turned; he was holding up what looked like a piece of old parchment, frowning. He had put on the faerie trousers, but he was naked from the waist up. Her stomach tightened. Emma had seen Julian shirtless at the beach plenty of times, but somehow this was different. Maybe because now she knew what it was like to run her hands over his shoulders, pale gold in the sunlight. He was smoothly muscled all over, the ridges in his abdomen sharply defined. She had kissed her way down that skin while he ran his hands through her hair, saying Emma, Emma, in the gentlest voice. Now she was staring like a curious onlooker. But she couldn't stop. There was something about it--illicit, nerve-racking --as if Julian were a dangerous stranger. Her gaze slipped over him: his hair, soft and dark and thick, curling where it touched the nape of his neck; his hips and collarbones made elegant arches under his skin; his runes described whorls and spirals across his chest and biceps. His parabatai rune seemed to glow under the sun. Around his wrist was the same knotted rag of red-brown cloth. He looked up at that moment and saw her. He lowered the parchment he was holding, angling it to cover the thing on his wrist. "Come here," he called, "and look at the map," and turned away, reaching for his shirt. By the time she'd gotten near him, he'd pulled it on and the rag was covered. He handed over the map and she forgot everything else. She stared at it as he knelt down, unpacking the food from one of the rucksacks. The parchment showed a sketch of Faerie--the Thorn Mountains, various lakes and streams, and the Courts of Seelie and Unseelie. It also showed a bright red dot that seemed to be trembling slightly, as if it weren't a part of the page. "The dot is us," Julian said, putting out sandwiches. "I figured the map out --it shows where we are in relation to the Courts. No real map would work here. The landscape of Faerie always shifts, and the Unseelie Court moves around. But since this shows where we are and where the Unseelie Court is, as long as we keep walking toward it we should be all right." Emma sat down on the grass across from him and picked up a sandwich. They were both cheese, lettuce, and tomato--not her favorite but she didn't care, since she was hungry enough to eat pretty much anything. "And what about Jace and Clary? We said to Simon and Isabelle that we'd look for them." "We only have four days," Julian said. "We have to find the Black Volume first, or Horace will destroy our lives." And the kids' lives. And Helen's and Aline's. And even Cristina's, because she knew our secret and she didn't tell. Emma knew it was all true, and Julian was being practical. Still, she wished he seemed more regretful that they couldn't look for their friends yet. "But we can look for them if we find the book?" said Emma. "If we still have time left on Horace's clock," said Julian. "I don't see why not." "Four days isn't that much time," said Emma. "Do you think this plan could work? Or is Horace just trying to get us killed?" "Be a pretty elaborate way to kill us," said Julian. He took a bite out of his sandwich and looked meditatively into the distance. "He wants the Black Volume. You heard him. I don't think he cares how he gets it, and we'll probably have to watch our step. But as long as we have it in our hands ..." He pointed at the map. "Look. Bram's Crossroads." The fact that their extraction point actually existed made Emma feel slightly better. "I wish I knew what he was going to do with the Black Volume," Emma muttered. "Probably nothing. He wants it so the faeries can't have it. It would be a political coup for him. The Consul couldn't get it, now he does, he gets to hold it up at the next Council meeting and praise himself." "He'll probably say Zara found it," Emma said--and then paused, staring at Julian. "You're eating lettuce," she said. "Yes?" He was leaning over the map, his fingers keeping it flat. "You hate lettuce." She thought of all the times he'd eaten lettuce in front of the kids to be a good example and then complained to her later that it tasted like crunchy paper. "You've always hated it." "Have I?" He sounded puzzled. He rose to his feet, starting to gather up their things. "We should head out. This time we travel by daylight. Too much weird stuff abroad in Faerie at night." It's just lettuce, Emma told herself. Not that important. Still, she found herself biting her lip as she bent to pick up her rucksack. Julian was strapping his crossbow to his back; his rucksack went across the other shoulder. From the woods came a cracking noise, the kind a breaking branch might make. Emma whirled around, her hand at her hip, feeling for the hilt of a knife. "Did you hear that?" Julian tightened the strap of his crossbow. They stood there for long moments, on their guard, but there was no second sound, and nothing appeared. Emma wished fiercely for a Vision or Hearing rune. "It could have been nothing," Julian said, finally, and though Emma knew he wasn't really trying to comfort her, just trying to get them on the road, it still seemed like something the Julian she knew would say. In silence they headed away from the clearing, which moments ago had been bright with sunlight and now seemed ominous and full of shadows. <|title|>Chapter 8: Long-Forgotten Bowers <|startofchapter|>Diana hurried toward the canal house on Princewater Street, the cool morning wind lifting her hair. She felt shot through with adrenaline, tense at the prospect of spilling her history to Emma and Jules. She'd kept it hugged so close to herself for so many years, telling Gwyn had been like cracking open her ribs to show her heart. She hoped the second time would be easier. Emma and Julian loved her, she told herself. They would-- She stopped dead, the heels of her boots clacking on the cobblestones. The cheerfully painted blue canal house rose in front of her, but it was surrounded by a ring of Council guards. Not just Council guards, in fact. Quite a few of them were young Centurions. Each was armed with an oak bo staff. She glanced around. A few Shadowhunters hurried by, none of them glancing at the house. She wondered how many of them knew Jules and Emma were even still in Alicante--but then, the Inquisitor had planned to make an example of their testimony. They'd have to know eventually. At the top of the steps was Amelia Overbeck, who had been giggling with Zara at the funeral. Annoyance sped up Diana's stride, and she pushed past the first ring of guards and ascended the steps. Amelia, who had been leaning against the door talking to a girl with long orange-red hair, turned to Diana with a brittle smirk. "Miss Wrayburn," she said. "Is there something you want?" "I'd like to see Julian Blackthorn and Emma Carstairs," said Diana, keeping her voice as neutral as possible. "Gosh," said Amelia, clearly enjoying herself. "I just don't think so." "Amelia, I have every right," said Diana. "Let me by." Amelia slewed her gaze toward the redhead. "This is Diana Wrayburn, Vanessa," she said. "She thinks she's very important." "Vanessa Ashdown?" Diana looked more closely: Cameron's cousin had left for the Academy as a spindly teen, and was almost unrecognizable now. "I know your cousin Cameron." Vanessa rolled her eyes. "He's boring. Emma's whipped puppy. And no, don't think you can get into the house by making nice with me. I don't like the Blackthorns or anyone who pals around with them." "Great news, since you're supposed to be protecting them," said Diana. Her adrenaline was coiling into rage. "Look, I'm going to open this door. If you want to try to stop me--" "Diana!" Diana turned, pushing hair out of her face: Jia was standing outside the ring of guards, her hand raised as if in greeting. "The Consul." Vanessa's eyes bugged out. "Oh sh--" "Shut up, Vanessa," hissed Amelia. She didn't look worried or afraid of Jia, just annoyed. Diana pushed her way down the steps and to Jia's side. Jia wore a silk blouse and trousers, her hair held back with a jeweled clip. Her mouth was an angry slash. "Don't bother," she said in a low voice, placing her hand on Diana's elbow and guiding her away from the crowd of hooting guards. "I heard them say Emma and Julian were with the Inquisitor." "Well, why didn't they just tell me that?" Diana snapped, exasperated. She glanced back over her shoulder at Vanessa Ashdown, who was giggling. "Vanessa Ashdown. My mother used to say some people had more hair than sense." "She does seem to aptly prove that theory," said Jia dryly. She had stopped some distance from the house, where a small stone bank inclined into the canal. It was thick with moss, bright green under the silver water that slopped up the side. "Look, Diana, I need to talk to you. Where can we not be overheard?" Diana looked at Jia closely. Was it her imagination, or when the Consul glanced at the Centurions surrounding the small canal house, did she look-- afraid? "Don't worry," said Diana. "I know exactly what to do." She was climbing a spiral staircase that seemed to reach toward the stars. Cristina didn't remember how she had found the staircase, nor did she recall her destination. The staircase rose from darkness and soared into the clouds; she kept the material of her long skirts clutched in her hands so she wouldn't trip over them. Her hair felt dense and heavy, and the scent of white roses thickened the air. The stairs ended abruptly and she stepped out in wonder onto a familiar rooftop: She was perched atop the Institute in Mexico City. She could see out over the city: El Angel, shining gold atop the Monumento a la Independencia, Chapultepec Park, the Palacio de Bellas Artes lit up and glowing, the bellshaped towers of the Guadalupe Basilica. The mountains rising behind it all, cupping the city as if in an open palm. A shadowy figure stood at the edge of the rooftop: slender and masculine, hands looped behind his back. She knew before he turned that it was Mark: No one else had hair like that, like gold hammered to airy silver. He wore a long belted tunic, a dagger thrust through the leather strap, and linen trousers. His feet were bare as he came toward her and took her in his arms. His eyes were shadowed, hooded with desire, his movements as slow as if they were both underwater. He drew her toward him, running his fingers through her hair, and she realized why it had felt so heavy: It was woven through with vines on which grew full-blown red roses. They fell around Mark as he cradled her with his other arm, his free hand running from her hair to her lips to her collarbones, his fingers dipping below the neckline of her dress. His hands were warm, the night cool, and his lips on hers were even warmer. She swayed into him, her hands finding their way to the back of his neck, where the fine hairs were softest, straying down to touch his scars.... He drew back. "Cristina," he murmured. "Turn around." She turned in his arms and saw Kieran. He was in velvet where Mark was in plain linen, and there were heavy gold rings on his fingers, his eyes shimmering and black- rimmed with kohl. He was apiece tom out of the night sky: silver and black. One of Mark's arms went around Cristina. The other reached for Kieran. And Cristina reached for him too, her hands finding the softness of his doublet, gathering him toward both her and Mark, enfolding them in the dark velvet of him. He kissed Mark, and then bent to her, Mark's arms around her as Kieran's lips found hers.... "Cristina." The voice pierced through Cristina's sleep, and she sat up instantly, clutching her blankets to her chest, wide-eyed with shock. "Cristina Mendoza Rosales?" It was a woman's voice. Breathless, Cristina looked around as her bedroom came into focus: the Institute furniture, bright sunlight through the window, a blanket loaned to her by Emma folded at the foot of the bed. There was a woman sitting on the windowsill. She had blue skin and hair the color of white paper. The pupils of her eyes were a very deep blue. "I got your fire- message," she said as Cristina stared at her, dazed. What did I just dream? Not now, Cristina. Think about it later. "Catarina Loss?" Cristina had wanted to talk to the warlock, granted, but she hadn't expected Catarina to just appear in her bedroom, and certainly not at such an awkward moment. "How did you get in here...?" "I didn't. I'm a Projection." Catarina moved her hand in front of the bright surface of the window; sunlight streamed through it as if it were stained glass. Cristina tugged discreetly at her hair. No roses. Ay. "What time is it?" "Ten," said Catarina. "I'm sorry--I really thought you'd be awake. Here." She made a gesture with her fingers, and a paper cup appeared at Cristina's bedside. "Peet's Coffee," Catarina said. "My favorite on the West Coast." Cristina hugged the cup to her chest. Catarina was her new favorite person. "I really wondered if I'd hear from you." Cristina took a sip of coffee. "I know it was a weird question." "I wasn't sure either." Catarina sighed. "In a way, this is warlock business. Shadowhunters don't use ley lines." "But we do use warlocks. You're our allies. If you are getting sick, then we owe it to you to do something." Catarina looked surprised, then smiled. "I wasn't--it's good to hear you say that." She glanced down. "It's been getting worse. More and more warlocks are affected." "How is Magnus Bane?" said Cristina. She hadn't known Magnus for long, but she'd liked him a great deal. She was startled to see tears in Catarina's eyes. "Magnus is--well, Alec takes good care of him. But no, he's not well." Cristina set her coffee down. "Then please let us help. What would a sign of ley line contamination be? What can we look for?" "Well, at a place where the ley lines have been compromised, there would be increased demon activity," said Catarina. "That's something we can definitely check." "I can look into it myself. I'll send you a marked map via fire-message." Catarina stood up, and the sunlight streamed through her transparent white hair. "But if you're going to investigate an area with increased demon activity, don't go alone. Take several others with you. You Shadowhunters can be so careless." "We're not all Jace Herondale," said Cristina, who was usually the least careless person she knew. "Please. I've taught at Shadowhunter Academy. I--" Catarina began to cough, her shoulders shaking. Her eyes widened. Cristina slid out of bed, alarmed. "Are you all right--?" But Catarina had vanished. There wasn't even a swirl of air to show where her Projection had been. Cristina threw on her clothes: jeans, an old T-shirt of Emma's. It smelled like Emma's perfume, a mixture of lemons and rosemary. Cristina wished with all her heart that Emma was here, that they could talk about last night, that Emma could give her advice and a shoulder to cry on. But she wasn't and she couldn't. Cristina touched her necklace, whispered a quick prayer to the Angel, and headed down the hall to Mark's room. He'd been up as late as she was, so there was a high possibility he was still sleeping. She knocked on the door hesitantly and then harder; finally Mark threw it open, yawning and stark naked. "Hijole!" Cristina shrieked, and pulled her T-shirt collar up over her face. "Put your pants on!" "Sorry," he called, ducking behind the door. "At least you've already seen it all." "Not in good lighting!" Cristina could still see Mark through the gap in the door; he was wearing boxer shorts and pulling on a shirt. His head popped through the collar, his blond hair adorably ruffled. No, not adorable, she told herself. Terrible. Annoying. Naked. No, she wasn't going to think about that, either. Am I awake? she wondered. She still felt wobbly about the dream she'd had. Dreams didn't mean anything, she reminded herself. It probably had something to do with anxiety, and not Mark and Kieran at all. Mark reappeared in the doorway. "I'm so sorry. I--we often slept naked in the Hunt, and I forgot--" Cristina yanked her shirt back down. "Let's not discuss it." "Did you want to talk about last night?" He looked eager. "I can explain." "No. I don't," she said firmly. "I need your help, and I--well, I couldn't ask anyone else. Ty and the others are too young, and Aline and Helen would feel like they had to tell Jia." Mark looked disappointed, but rallied. "This is something the Clave can't know about?" "I don't know. I just--at this point, I wonder if we can tell them anything." "Canyou at least tell me what this is about? Demons?" "For a change, yes," said Cristina, and explained about the ley lines, the warlock sickness, and her talk with Catarina. "All we are doing is going to see if there's anything unusual to report on. We probably won't even get out of the car." Mark perked up. "You'll be driving? It'll just be the two of us?" "I will," she said. "Be ready by seven tonight." She started to walk away, then paused and glanced over her shoulder. She couldn't help it. "Just do me a favor tonight. Wear some pants." When Kit came into the kitchen, Ty wasn't there. He almost turned around and left, but the others had already seen him. Aline, in black jeans and a tank top, was at the stove, her hair tied up on top of her head, a frown of concentration on her face. Dru, Mark, Cristina, and Tavvy were at the table; Dru was fussing over Tavvy, but Cristina and Mark both greeted Kit with a wave. He sat down and was immediately overwhelmed by awkwardness. He'd never spent much time with any of the Blackthorns besides Ty and Livvy. Without either of them there, he felt as if he'd wandered into a party full of people he barely knew with whom he was expected to make small talk. "Did you sleep well?" Cristina asked him. It was hard to feel awkward around Cristina--she seemed to radiate kindness. Kit managed it, though. Johnny Rook had defrauded plenty of extremely kind people in his life and Kit doubted he lacked the capacity to do the same. He mumbled something in response and poured himself some orange juice. Had he slept well? Not really. He'd spent half the night awake worrying about going to the Shadow Market with Ty, and the other half being oddly excited about going to the Shadow Market with Ty. "Where's Helen?" Dru said in a low voice, eyeing Aline. Kit had been wondering the same. She'd looked pretty stressed out the previous day. He wouldn't blame her if she realized what she'd taken on and ran screaming into the desert. "The Conclave is meeting today," said Mark. "Helen's attending." "But isn't Aline the one who's supposed to be running the Institute?" Dru looked puzzled. "Helen thought the Conclave should get used to her," said Mark. "Be reminded she's a Shadowhunter like any other Shadowhunter. And that she's a Blackthorn, especially since they might wind up talking about things like whether Diana needs to be replaced as our tutor--" "I don't want another tutor!" Tavvy exclaimed. "I want Diana!" "But surely she is only going to be away a few more days?" said Cristina anxiously. "At the most?" Mark shrugged. "All of us bouncing around here without a tutor or a schedule is the kind of thing that makes Conclaves nervous." "But Tavvy's right," Dm said. "Were already studying with Diana. We don't need to start with someone else. Isn't that right, Kit?" Kit was so startled to be addressed that his juice glass almost flew out of his hand. Before he could answer, Aline interrupted them by stalking over to the table holding a frying pan. Fantastic smells wafted from it. Kit's mouth began to water. "What's that?" Tavvy asked, his eyes big. "This," said Aline, "is a frittata. And you're all going to eat it." She slammed it down onto a metal trivet in the center of the table. "Don't like frittata," said Tavvy. "Too bad," said Aline, crossing her arms and glaring at each of them in turn. "You made Helen cry yesterday, so you're going to eat this frittata-- which, by the way, is goddamn delicious--and you're going to like it. It's what's for breakfast, and since I'm not Helen, I don't care if you starve or eat Cheetos for every single meal. Helen and I both have a lot of work to do, the Clave isn't giving us an inch, all she wants is to be with you guys, and you are not going to make her cry again. Understood?" Dru and Tavvy both nodded, wide-eyed. "I'm very sorry, Aline," said Cristina in a small voice. "I didn't mean you, Cristina." Aline rolled her eyes. "And where's Ty? I'm not repeating this lecture again." She glared at Kit. "You're the one glued to his side. Where is he?" "Probably sleeping," said Kit. He guessed Ty had stayed up late, researching dark magic. Not that he'd say that out loud. "Fine. Tell him what I said when he wakes up. And put the frying pan in the freaking sink when you're done with breakfast." Aline grabbed her jacket off the back of a chair, slid her arms into the sleeves, and stalked out of the room. Kit braced himself for either Tavvy or Dru to start to cry. Neither of them did. "That was pretty cool," said Dru, helping herself to some frittata, which turned out to be a mixture of eggs, sausage, cheese, and caramelized onions. "I like the way she stood up for Helen." "You yelled at Helen the other day," Mark pointed out. "She's my sister," said Dru, heaping frittata on Tavvy's plate. Mark made an exasperated noise. Cristina took a bite of frittata and closed her eyes in pleasure. "I bet you used to yell at your dad," Dru said to Kit. "I mean, every family fights sometimes." "We weren't really a yelling family. Mostly my dad would either ignore me or spend his time trying to teach me to pick locks." Dru's face lit up. She still looked wan and tired, and very young in her oversize T-shirt, but when she smiled, she reminded Kit of Livvy. "You can picklocks?" "I can show you how, if you want." She dropped her fork and clapped her hands together. "Yes! Mark, can I go learn how to pick locks now?" "We have Open runes, Dru," Mark said. "So? What if I was kidnapped by a tentacle demon and I dropped my stele and I was handcuffed to a chair? What then?" "That won't happen," said Mark. "It could happen," said Tavvy. "It really couldn't. Tentacle demons can't operate handcuffs." Mark looked exasperated. "Please?" Dru begged him with her eyes. "I--suppose it would do no harm," Mark said, clearly out of his depth. He glanced sideways at Cristina, as if seeking her approval, but she looked quickly away. "Just don't commit any actual crimes with your newfound knowledge, Dru. The last thing we need is something else for the Clave to be annoyed about." "That water is eldritch magic," Kieran said. He was leaning heavily against Diego's side as they made their way as quickly as possible down the corridors of the Scholomance. Divya and Rayan had remained behind at the doors of the Hollow Place, to keep the Cohort from chasing after Kieran and Diego. "I heard them laugh about it, as they dragged me down the halls, blindfolded." There was a haughty bitterness in his voice, still the tones of a prince. Beneath it was a layer of rage and shame. "I did not believe they knew of what they spoke, but they did." "I am sorry," Diego said. He put a hand on the faerie prince's shoulder, tentatively. It seemed as if he could feel Kieran's heartbeat thrumming even through bone and muscle. "I was meant to protect you. I failed." "You did not fail," Kieran said. "If it were not for you, I would have died." He sounded uncomfortable. Faeries weren't fond of apologies or debts. "We cannot go back to your room," Kieran added as they turned another corner. "They will look for us there." "We have to hide," said Diego. "Somewhere we can get you bandaged up. There are dozens of empty rooms--" Kieran pulled away. He was walking like a drunk, unsteadily. "Bandages are for those who deserve to heal," he said. Diego looked at him, worried. "Is the pain bad?" "It is not my pain," said Kieran. A scream echoed down the halls. A tortured female scream, abruptly cut off. "The girl who fell in the waters," said Kieran. "I tried to reach her sooner Samantha. Diego might not have liked her, but no one deserved pain that would make you scream like that. "Maybe we should get out of the Scholomance," said Diego. The main entrance was through the side of the mountain but was always guarded. There were other ways out, though--even a glass corridor that snaked through the waters of the lake to the other side. Kieran raised his chin. "Someone is coming." Diego reached for Kieran with one hand and his dagger with the other, then froze as he recognized the figure in front of him. Black hair, set jaw, scowling eyebrows, eyes fixed on Kieran. Martin Gladstone. "You won't be leaving the Scholomance," Gladstone said. "Not any time soon." "You don't understand," said Diego. "The others--Zara's group--they tried to kill Kieran--" Gladstone raked contemptuous eyes over Diego and his companion. "So you really had the gall to bring him here," he said, clearly meaning Kieran. "The faerie is a member of an enemy army. A high-ranking one at that." "He was going to testify against the Unseelie King!" said Diego. "He was going to risk himself--risk the King's anger--to help Shadowhunters!" "He never quite got that chance, did he," sneered Gladstone. "So we don't know what he would have done." "I would have testified," said Kieran, leaning against the wall. "I bear my father no love." "Faeries can't lie," said Diego. "Can you not listen?" "They can trick and deceive and manipulate. How did he get you to aid him, Diego Rocio Rosales?" "He did not 'get' me to do anything," said Diego. "I know who I trust. And if you kill Kieran, or let those bastards hurt him, you will be breaking the Accords." "Interesting escalation," said Gladstone. "I have no intention of killing or harming Kingson. Instead you will be sequestered in the library until the Inquisitor can arrive and deal with you both." Emma and Julian had been walking for some hours when Emma realized that they were being followed. It had actually been a fairly pleasant walk along a tramped path in the woods. Julian was easy enough to talk to when Emma tried not to think about the spell, or how he felt about her, or about how he felt, period. They avoided the topics of Livvy and the parabatai curse, and talked instead about the Clave and what its next plans might be, and how Zara might figure into them. Julian walked ahead, holding the map, consulting it when enough light rayed down through the trees to make the map readable. "We could reach the Unseelie Court by tomorrow morning," he said, pausing in the middle of a clearing. Blue and green flowers nodded in patches on the forest floor, and the sunlight turned the leaves to green veils. "Depending on how much we're willing to travel at night--" Emma stopped in her tracks. "We're being followed," she said. Julian stopped as well and turned to her, folding the map into his pocket. "You're sure?" His voice was quiet. Emma strained to hear what she'd heard before: the tiny breakage of branches behind them, the thump of a footfall. "I'm sure." There was no doubt in Julian's eyes; Emma felt a faint gratification that even in his current enchanted state, he trusted her skills implicitly. "We can't run," he said--he was right; the trail was too rocky and the undergrowth too thick for them to be sure they'd outrun a pursuer. "Come on." Emma grabbed Julian's hand; a moment later they were skinning up the trunk of the tallest of the oak trees surrounding the clearing. Emma found the fork of a branch and settled into it; a second later, Julian swung up onto a branch across from hers. They clung to the tree trunk and looked down. The footfalls were getting closer. Hoofbeats, Emma realized, and then a kelpie--dark green, with a mane of shimmering seaweed--strode into the clearing, a rider on its back. Emma sucked in her breath. The rider was a man, wearing Shadowhunter gear. She leaned down, eager to see more. Not a man, she realized, a boy-- whippet thin and narrow-faced, with a shock of black hair. "Dane Larkspear on a kelpie," Julian muttered. "What is this?" "If I see Zara come up riding the Loch Ness monster, we're going home," Emma hissed back. The kelpie had stopped dead in the middle of the clearing. It was rolling its eyes--deep black with no whites. Closer up, it looked less like a horse, even though it had a mane and tail and four legs, and more like a frightening creature, something that had never been meant to be out of the water. "Hurry up." Dane jerked on the kelpie's bridle and a memory flickered in the back of Emma's mind--something about how bridling a kelpie forced it to obey you. She wondered how Dane had managed it. "We need to find Blackthorn and Carstairs's trail before nightfall or we'll lose them." The kelpie spoke. Emma jolted. Its voice sounded like the grinding of waves against rock. "I do not know these creatures, Master. I do not know what they look like." "It doesn't matter! Pick up their trail!" Dane smacked the kelpie across the shoulder and sat back, glowering. "Okay, I'll describe them for you. Julian's the kind of guy who would have a girl as a parabatai. Get it?" "No," said the kelpie. "Spends all his time chasing little kids around. Has like a million children and he acts like he's their dad. It's creepy. Now, Emma, she's the kind of girl who'd be hot if she ever shut up." "I'll kill him," Emma muttered. "I'll kill him while talking the whole time." "I don't understand human attitudes toward beauty," said the kelpie. "I like a fine sheen of seaweed on a woman." "Shut up." Dane jerked the bridle and the kelpie exposed needlelike teeth in a hiss. "We need to find them before the sun goes down." His smile was ugly. "Once I get back with the Black Volume, Horace will give me anything I want. Maybe Julian Blackthorn's last sister to play with. Dru whatsit. Best tits in the family." Emma was out of the tree so fast that the world was a blur of green leaves and red rage. She landed on Dane Larkspear and knocked him clear of his saddle, forcing a gasp of pain from him when they hit the ground together. She punched him hard in the stomach and he doubled up while she sprang to her feet. She grabbed for her sword; for a moment she had been worried Julian wouldn't have followed her but he was already on the ground, yanking off the kelpie's bridle. "My lord!" The kelpie bowed its forelegs to Julian. Dane was coughing and gagging, rolling on the ground in pain. "Thank you for freeing me." "Don't mention it." Julian tossed the bridle aside, and the kelpie dashed into the forest. Emma was still standing over Dane with her sword pointed at his throat, where something gold flashed. Lying flat on the ground, he glared at her. "What are you doing here, Larkspear?" she demanded. "We were sent to get the Black Volume, not you." "Get away from me." Dane turned his head and spit blood. He wiped his mouth, leaving a red smear on his hand. "If you hurt me at all, the Dearborns will have your Marks stripped." "So what?" Emma said. "We don't even have the Black Volume. So you just wasted your time following us, Dane. Which, by the way, you suck at. You sounded like an elephant. A sexist elephant. You're a terrible Shadowhunter." "I know you don't have it," Dane said in disgust. "But you will. You'll find it. And when you do--" Dane broke off. "What?" Emma's voice dripped scorn. "Am I talking too much?" Emma suddenly realized Dane wasn't staring at her but behind her; Julian had come up and was standing with his longsword in his hand, gazing at Dane with a frightening coldness. "You do know," he said quietly, "that if you ever touched Dru, I would kill you?" Dane pushed himself up on his elbows. "You think you're so special," he hissed in a thin, whining voice. "You think you're so great--you think your sister's too good for me--" "She's too young for you," said Emma. "She's thirteen, creep." "You think the Inquisitor sent you on some special mission because you're so great, but he sent you because you're disposable! Because you don't matter! He wants you gone!" Dane froze, as if he realized he'd said too much. Emma turned to Julian. "Does he mean--" "He means the Inquisitor sent him to kill us," said Julian. "He's wearing one of the medallions Horace gave us. The ones that prevent time slippage." Dane put a hand protectively to his throat, but not before Emma saw that Julian was right. She glared at Dane. "So Horace sent you to get the Black Volume and kill us and return with it alone?" "And then he'd tell everyone we were murdered by the Fair Folk," said Julian. "Extra bonus for him." A flicker of fear crossed Dane's face. "How did you guess that?" "I'm smarter than you," said Julian. "But I wouldn't give myself big props. So is sawdust." "There's a difference between sending someone on a dangerous mission and sending someone after them to stab them in the back," said Emma. "When the Clave finds out--" "They won't find out!" Dane shouted. "You're never coming back from here! You think it's just me?" He staggered to his feet; Emma took a step back, unsure what to do. They could knock Dane out, but then what? Tie him up? Return him to Idris somehow? "The Cohort has a long reach and we don't need traitors like you. The fewer of you there are in the world, the better--we got a good start with Livvy, but--" Julian's sword flashed like lightning as he drove the blade into Dane's heart. Emma knew it was Dane's heart, because Dane's body spasmed and arched, like a fish caught with a hook through its body. He coughed out blood in a red spray, his eyes fixed on Julian with a look of incredulity. Julian jerked his sword free. Dane slid to the ground, his mouth half-open, his expression glassy and flat. Emma whirled on Julian. "What did you just do?" Julian bent to clean the blade of his sword on a patch of grass and flowers. "Killed the person who was planning to kill us." "You murdered him," Emma said. "Emma, be practical. He was sent here to murder us. He would have done it to us if I hadn't done it to him. And he said there might be others, too, other Cohort members. If we left him alive, we could have been facing a lot more adversaries pretty soon." Emma felt as if she couldn't catch her breath. Julian had sheathed his sword; the flowers at his feet were stained with blood. She couldn't look at Dane's body. "You don't just kill other Shadowhunters. People don't do that. People with feelings don't do that." "Maybe," said Julian. "But he was a problem, and now he's not." There was a rustle in the underbrush. A moment later the kelpie reappeared, shimmering green in the sunlight. It nosed its way over to Dane. Emma wondered for a second if it was mourning its previous master. There was a crunching sound as it sank its needle teeth into Dane's bloodstained side. The coppery smell of blood exploded onto the air. The kelpie swallowed and looked up at Julian, its green teeth glinting red, like a disturbing vision of Christmas. "Oh God." Emma stepped back, revolted. "Sorry," said the kelpie. "Did you want to share? He's very tasty." "No, thanks." Julian looked neither bothered nor amused by the grisly spectacle. "You are very generous, Julian Blackthorn," said the kelpie. "Be sure I will repay you some day." "We need to leave," said Emma, trying not to gag. She looked away, but not before she saw Dane's rib cage gleam white in the sun. "We need to get out of here now." She whirled blindly. She kept seeing the blood on the flowers, the way Dane's eyes had rolled up in his head. The air was suddenly thick with the copper smell of blood, and Emma reached out to steady herself on the narrow trunk of a birch tree. "Emma?" Julian said behind her, and suddenly there was the explosive thunder of hooves, and two horses, one gray and one brown, burst into the clearing. A faerie rider sat astride each: a fair-haired woman on the gray horse, and a wheat-skinned man on the brown. "Is this Faerie Grand Central?" said Emma, leaning her forehead against the tree. "Does everyone come here?" "Emma Carstairs?" said the fair-haired woman. Emma recognized her through blurred vision: It was Mark's aunt Nene. Beside her rode one of the Seelie Queen's courtiers, Fergus. He was scowling. "Is that a dead Shadowhunter?" he demanded. "He took me prisoner and these kind people freed me," said the kelpie. "Go, kelpie," said Fergus. "Leave this place. The words of Seelie courtiers are not for you." The kelpie gave a whinnying sigh and dragged Dane's body into the underbrush. Emma turned slowly, keeping her back to the tree. She was fervently glad the corpse was gone, though the ground was still wet with blood, the petals of the flowers weighed down by it. "Emma Carstairs and Julian Blackthorn," said Nene. "Your course was bound toward the Seelie Court. Why?" "No, we were on the way to the Unseelie Court," said Emma. "We were--" "We know which paths in the Lands lead to what destinations," said Fergus sharply. "Do not try your human tricks." Emma opened her mouth to protest--and saw Julian shake his head at her, a tiny fraction of a negation, but she knew immediately what it meant. They had been traveling the wrong way. For whatever reason, he had lied to her; every time he had consulted the map, it had brought them closer to the Seelie Court. The taste of betrayal was bitter in her mouth, more bitter than the copper of blood. "We have the Black Volume," Julian said to Nene, to Fergus, and Emma stared at him in total astonishment. What was he talking about? "That is why we have returned to Faerie. The Queen asked us to retrieve it for her, and we have, and we have come for what she promised." He straightened, his head thrown back. His face was very pale, but his eyes were shining, bright green-blue, and he looked beautiful; even with blood on his face he was beautiful, and Emma wished she couldn't see it, but she could. "We formally request audience with the Seelie Queen," he said. <|title|>Chapter 9: Up Kingly Halls <|startofchapter|>Soaring through the air with Gwyn, Diana felt free, despite her nagging worry over Emma and Julian. She supposed they were safe in the house, but she didn't like not being able to see them. It made her realize how much they had become her family over the past five years, and how disconnected she felt from Alicante. Walking through the streets, even familiar faces felt like the masks of strangers. Did you vote to bring Horace Dearborn in as the Inquisitor? Do you blame the Blackthorns for their own sister's death? Do you believe faeries are monsters? Who are you, really? She held Gwyn more tightly as they landed in their now-familiar small clearing among the linden trees. The moon had thinned, and the glade was full of silence and deep shadow. Gwyn dismounted first and helped Diana down; this time he had not brought saddlebags full of food, but a blunt sword at his waist. Diana knew he trusted her, and he had asked no questions when she'd requested that he bring her here tonight. He didn't trust other Shadowhunters, though, and she couldn't blame him for that. A light sprang up among the shadows, and Jia stepped out from behind a tilted rock. Diana frowned as the Consul approached them. The last time Diana had been here, the earth had been green under her feet. Now Jia's shoes crunched on dried moss, brown and sere. It could simply be because fall was approaching, but the blight... "Diana," Jia said. "I need your help." Diana held up a hand. "First I need to know why I am not allowed to see Emma and Julian. Why am I being kept away from them?" "Everyone is meant to be kept away from them," said Jia. She sat down neatly on a flat stone, her ankles crossed. She didn't have a hair out of place. "Horace says he doesn't want to compromise their testimony." Diana made a disbelieving noise. "How is he planning to force them to give testimony? There's no Mortal Sword!" "I understand how concerned you must be," said Jia. "But I spoke with Simon before he left for New York. He and Isabelle managed to see Emma and Julian this morning and said that they were fine and their meeting with Horace went as well as could be expected." A mix of relief and annoyance washed over Diana. "Jia, you have to do something. Dearborn cannot keep them isolated until some imaginary future time when the Sword is repaired." "I know," Jia said. "It's why I wanted to meet. Remember when I asked you to stand with me?" "Yes," Diana said. "The Cohort are aware of the blight in the forest," Jia said. "After all, Patrick took Manuel with him to see it, before we realized how dangerous they all were--even the children." She sighed and glanced at Gwyn, who was expressionless. With his years of experience in the political duelings of the Faerie Courts, Diana couldn't help but wonder what he thought of all this. "They've decided to use it as a political tool. They are going to claim it as the work of faeries specifically. They want to burn the forest to kill the blight." "That will not kill the blight," said Gwyn. "It will only kill the forest. The blight is death and decay. You cannot destroy destruction itself any more than you can cure poison with poison." Jia looked at Gwyn again, this time hard and directly. "Is it faerie magic? The blight?" "It is not any faerie magic I have ever seen, and I have lived a long time," said Gwyn. "I am not saying that the Unseelie King has no hand in it. But this is a more demonic magic than any wielded in Faerie. It is not natural but unnatural in nature." "So burning the forest won't accomplish anything?" said Diana. "It will accomplish something," said Gwyn. "It will drive out the Downworlders who call Brocelind home--all the faeries and the werewolf packs who have lived here for generations." "It is an excuse, I believe, to begin driving the Downworlders out of Idris," said Jia. "Dearborn intends to use the current mood of fear among the Nephilim to push for stricter anti-Downworlder laws. I knew he would, but I did not expect his attempt to empty Idris of Downworlders to come so quickly." "Do you think the Clave would ever fall in line with him?" asked Diana. "I fear so," Jia said with a rarely expressed bitterness. "They are focused so much on their fear and hatred that they don't even see where they are injuring themselves. They would eat a poisoned banquet if they thought Downworlders were feasting beside them." Diana hugged her arms around herself to keep from shivering. "So what can we do?" "Horace has called a meeting in two days. It will be his first opportunity to present his plans to the public. People respect you--the Wrayburns are a proud family and you fought bravely in the Dark War. There must be those of us who stand up to resist him. So many are afraid to speak out." "I am not afraid," said Diana, and she saw Gwyn give her a warm look of admiration. "The world can change so quickly," Jia said. "One day the future seems hopeful, and the next day clouds of hate and bigotry have gathered as if blown in from some as yet unimagined sea." "They were always there, Jia," said Diana. "Even if we did not want to acknowledge them. They were always on the horizon." Jia looked weary, and Diana wondered if she had walked all the way here, though she doubted it was physical exertion that had tired the Consul. "I do not know if we can gather enough strength to clear the skies again." "Okay," said Kit. "First were going to make a tension wrench out of a paper clip." "Were going to make a what out of a what?" Dru hooked her hair behind her ears and looked at Kit with wide eyes. They were both sitting on top of one of the long tables in the library, with a padlock and a pile of paper clips in between them. He groaned. "Don't tell me you don't know what a paper clip is." She looked indignant. "Of course I do. Those." She jabbed a finger. "But what are we making?" "I'll show you. Take a clip." She picked one up. "Bend it into an L shape," he instructed. "The straight part is the top part. Okay, good." Her face was screwed up with concentration. She was wearing a black T-shirt that said from beyond the grave on it and featured a cracked tombstone. Kit picked up a second clip and straightened it completely. "This is your pick," he said. "What you're holding is the tension wrench." "Okay," she said. "Now how do you pick the lock?" He laughed. "Hold your horses. Okay, pick up the padlock--you're going to take the tension wrench and insert it into the bottom of the keyhole, which is called the shear line." Dru did as he'd instructed. Her tongue poked out one corner of her mouth: She looked like a little girl concentrating on a book. "Turn it in the direction that the lock would turn," he said. "Not left-- there you go. Like that. Now take the pick with your other hand." "No, wait--" She laughed. "That's confusing." "Okay, I'll show you." He slid the second clip into the lock itself and began to rake it back and forth, trying to push the pins up. His father had taught him how to feel the pins with his lock pick--this lock had five--and he began to fiddle gently, raising one pin after another. "Turn your wrench," he said suddenly, and Dru jumped. "Turn it to the right." She twisted, and the padlock popped open. Dru gave a muted scream. "That's so cool!" Kit felt like smiling at her--it had never occurred to him to want a little sister, but there was something nice about having someone to teach things to. "Does Ty know how to do this?" she asked. "I don't think so," Kit said, relocking the padlock and handing it to her. "But he'd probably learn fast." He handed her the pick next and sat back. "Now you do it." She groaned. "Not fair." "You only learn by doing." It was something Kit's father had always said. "You sound like Julian." Dru puffed out a little laugh and started in on the padlock. Her fingernails were painted with chipped black polish. Kit was impressed with the delicacy with which she handled the pick and wrench. "I never thought anyone would say I sounded like Julian Blackthorn." Dru looked up. "You know what I mean. Dad-ish." She twisted the tension wrench. "I'm glad you're friends with Ty," she said unexpectedly. Kit felt his heart give a sudden sharp bump in his chest. "I mean, he always had Livvy. So he didn't need any other friends. It was like a little club and no one could get in, and then you came along and you did." She had paused, still holding the padlock. She was looking at him with eyes so much like Livvy's, that wide blue-green fringed with dark lashes. "I'm sorry?" he said. "Don't be. I'm too young. Ty would never have let me in, even if you hadn't showed up." She said it matter-of-factly. "I love Julian. He's like--the best father. You know he'll always put you first. But Ty was always my cool brother. He had such awesome stuff in his room, and animals liked him, and he knew everything--" She broke off, her cheeks turning pink. Ty had come in, his damp hair in soft, humid curls, and Kit felt a slow flip inside him, like his stomach turning over. He told himself he probably felt awkward because Ty had walked in on them talking about him. "I'm learning how to pick locks," Dru said. "Okay." Ty spared her a cursory glance. "I need to talk to Kit now, though." Kit slid hastily off the table, nearly knocking over the pile of paper clips. "Dru did really well," he said. "Okay," Ty said again. "But I need to talk to you." "So talk," said Dru. She'd put the lock-picking equipment down on the table and was glaring at Ty. "Not with you here," he said. It had been pretty obvious, but Dru made a hurt noise anyway and jumped off the table. She stalked out of the library, slamming the door behind her. "That wasn't--she wasn't--" Kit started. He couldn't finish, though; he couldn't scold Ty. Not now. Ty unzipped his hoodie and reached brusquely into an inner pocket. "We need to go to the Shadow Market tonight," he said. Kit yanked his brain back to the present. "I'm forbidden from entering the Market. I suspect you are too." "We can petition at the gate," said Ty. "I read about people doing that. Shadow Markets have gates, right?" "Yeah, there are gates. They're marked off. They don't keep people out or in; they're more like meeting points. And yeah, you can petition the head of the Market, except in this case it's Barnabas and he hates me." Ty picked up a paper clip from the table and looked at it with interest. There were bruises on his neck, Kit noticed suddenly. He didn't remember them, which struck him as strange, but then, who noticed every bruise on someone else's skin? Ty must have gotten them when they'd fought the Riders in London. "We just have to convince him it's in his interest to let us in." "How do you plan to do that? We're not exactly master negotiators." Ty, who had been straightening the paper clip, gave Kit one of his rare sunrise-over-the-water smiles. "You are." "I--" Kit realized he was grinning, and broke off. He'd always had a sarcastic edge to his tongue, never been someone to take a compliment gracefully, but it was as if there was something about Ty Blackthorn that reached into him and untied all the careful knots of protection holding him together. He wondered if that was what people meant when they said they felt undone. Ty frowned as if he hadn't noticed Kit's stupid smile. "The problem is," he said, "neither of us drive. We have no way of getting to the Market." "But you have an iPhone," said Kit. "In fact, there's several in the Institute. I've seen them." "Sure," said Ty, "but--" "I'm going to introduce you to a wonderful invention called Uber," said Kit. "Your life will be changed, Ty Blackthorn." "Ah, Watson," said Ty, shoving the clip into his pocket. "You may not yourself be luminous, but you are an extraordinary conductor of light." Diego had been surprised that Gladstone wanted to lock them in the library. He'd never thought of it as a particularly secure room. Once they were both inside, Diego stripped of his weapons and stele, and the solid oak door had been locked behind them, Diego began to realize the advantages the library had as a prison. The walls were thick and there were no windows save for the massive glass ceiling many feet up. The sheer walls made it impossible to climb up and break it, and nothing in the room yielded a useful weapon--they could throw books, Diego supposed, or try to flip the tables, but he didn't figure that would do much good. He stalked over to where Kieran sat slumped at the foot of the massive tree that grew up out of the floor. If only it reached up high enough to get to the ceiling, Diego thought. Kieran was hunched against the trunk. He had jammed the palms of his hands into his eyes, as if he could blind himself. "Are you all right?" Diego said. Kieran dropped his hands. "I am sorry." He looked up at Diego, who could see the marks of Kieran's palms against his cheekbones. "It's fine. You were injured. I can look for ways out by myself," Diego said, deliberately misunderstanding him. "No, I mean I am sorry," Kieran choked out. "I cannot ." "You cannot what?" "Get away from it. I feel guilt like a curtain of thorns in which I am entangled. Every which way I turn I am pierced again." The pool makes you feel every hurt you have ever caused others. "We are none of us without guilt," said Diego, and he thought of his family, of Cristina. "Every one of us has hurt another, inadvertently or not." "You do not understand." Kieran was shaking his head. A lock of hair fell across his forehead, silver darkening to blue. "When I was in the Hunt, I was a straw floating in wind or water. All I could do was clutch at other straws. I believed I had no effect in the world. That I mattered so little I could neither help nor harm." He tensed his hands into fists. "Now I have felt the pain that was Emma's and the sorrow that was Mark's, the pain of everyone I harmed in the Hunt, even Erec's pain as he died. But how could I have been the person who caused such pain when I am someone whose actions are written in water?" His eyes, black and silver, were haunted. Diego said, "Kieran. You have not only caused pain in this world. It is just that the pool does not show good, only hurt." "How do you know?" Kieran cried. "We are but barely acquainted, you and I--" "Because of Cristina," said Diego. "Cristina had faith in you. True faith, unblemished and unbroken. Why do you think I agreed to hide you here? Because she believed you were good, and I believed in her." He stopped before he could say too much, but Kieran had already winced at the mention of Cristina. His next question puzzled Diego. "How can I face her again?" he said. "Do you care that much what she thinks?" Diego said. It hadn't occurred to him that Kieran might. Surely he couldn't know Cristina that well. "More than you might imagine or guess," Kieran said. "How did you ever face her again, after you engaged yourself to Zara and broke her heart?" "Really?" Diego was stung. "We need to bring this up now?" Kieran looked at him with wild eyes. Diego sighed. "Yes, I disappointed Cristina and I lost her regard--you must understand what that is like. To have let down someone you loved. To have disappointed yourself." "Maybe not exactly," said Kieran, with a shadow of his old wryness. "Nobody calls me Perfect Kieran." "I don't call myself Perfect Diego!" Diego protested, feeling that the conversation had degenerated. "Nobody would call themselves that!" There was a noise at the door. Both of them turned, poised for danger, but as it swung open Diego was shocked to see Divya on the threshold. She looked as if she'd been in a fight. Scratched and bloody, she held up the key. "I got it from Gladstone in the infirmary chaos," she said. "I doubt we have much time before he notices it's gone." Diego stalked past her and opened the library door a crack. The corridor was empty. "What's happening? Where's Rayan?" "Trying to see what the others know, the ones who came from Alicante and aren't in the Cohort. Everyone's steles have been confiscated. Zara Portaled back to Idris right after you took Kieran away. And Gladstone's in the infirmary with Samantha," said Divya. "She won't stop screaming." She bit her lip. "It's really bad." Kieran had risen to his feet, though he was still using the tree to support himself. "You two should run," he said. "Get out of here. It's me they want, and you have put yourselves in enough danger on my account." Divya gave him a wry look. "By the Angel, he's all self-sacrificing now he fell in that pool. Faerie, you haven't caused me any harm. We're fine." "I made you worry and feel fear," said Kieran, gazing at her with a look both haunting and haunted. "You were afraid of what might happen to you and the others, retaliation for hiding me. You feared for Rayan." He glanced at Diego. "And you--" "No." Diego held up a hand. "I don't want to hear about my feelings." "Said every man ever," Divya quipped, but her eyes were overly bright. "Look, there's more I need to tell you. And you should both hear it. I heard Zara laughing with Gladstone in the infirmary before they brought Samantha in. The Inquisitor sent two Shadowhunters on a suicide mission to Faerie to find the Black Volume." "Jace and Clary?" said Diego, puzzled. "That's not a suicide mission." "Not them. Emma and Julian Blackthorn. They left yesterday." "They would never agree to a suicide mission," said Kieran. "Julian would not leave his brothers and sisters. Never." "They don't know it's a suicide mission--Dearborn sent someone to follow them and kill them before they can come back." "That's against the Law." It was all Diego could think of to say, and he immediately felt ridiculous. "Horace Dearborn doesn't care about your Laws," said Kieran. His cheeks were flushed darkly with color. "He cares for nothing beyond furthering his own purpose. To him a Nephilim who doesn't agree with him is no better than a Downworlder. They are all vermin to be destroyed." "Kieran's right," said Divya. "He's the Inquisitor, Diego. He's going to change all the Laws--change them so he can do whatever he wants." "We must go," said Kieran. "There is not a moment to lose. We must tell the Blackthorns--Mark and Cristina--" "All the exits are guarded," said Divya. "I'm not saying it's impossible, but we're going to need Rayan and Gen and the others. We can't fight the Cohort alone. Especially not without steles. We'll need to plan--" "We do not have time to plan--" Kieran began. Diego thought suddenly of Cristina, of the way she'd written about Kieran in her letter asking Diego to hide him. The fascination she'd had with faeries even when she was a little girl, the way she'd cried when the Cold Peace was passed, telling Diego over and over the faeries were good, their powers part of the blessed magic of the world. "Kieran," Diego said sharply. "You are a prince of Faerie. Be a prince of Faerie." Kieran gave him a wild, dark look. His breath was ragged. Divya glanced at Diego as if to say what are you doing? just as Kieran reached up to seize a branch of the tree. He closed his black and silver eyes. His face was a pale mask. His jaw tightened even as the leaves on the tree began to rustle, as if in a high wind. It was as if the tree were calling out. "What's happening?" whispered Divya. Light crackled up and down the tree--not lightning, but pure bright sparks. It circled Kieran as if he were outlined in gold paint. His hair had turned an odd gold-green, something Diego had never seen before. "Kieran--" Diego started. Kieran threw his hands up. His eyes were still closed; words poured from his mouth, a language Diego had never heard. He wished Cristina were here. Cristina could translate. Kieran was shouting; Diego thought he heard the word "Windspear" repeated. Windspear? thought Diego. Isn't that--? "There are people coming!" Divya cried. She ran to the door of the library, slammed it closed, and locked it, but she was shaking her head. "There are way too many of them. Diego--" The glass ceiling exploded. Both Diego and Divya gasped. A white horse crashed through the ceiling. A flying white horse, proud and beautiful. Glass sprayed and Diego dived under a nearby table, dragging Divya with him. Kieran opened his eyes; he reached up in welcome as Windspear sliced through the air, swift as an arrow, light as thistledown. "By the Angel," Divya whispered. "God, I used to love ponies when I was little." Kieran vaulted himself up onto Windspear's back. His hair had gone back to its more normal blue-black, but he was still crackling with energy. His hands threw sparks as he moved. He reached out toward Diego, who scrambled out from under the table, Divya beside him, their boots crunching on shattered glass. "Come with me," Kieran called. The room was full of wind and cold, the smell of the Carpathians and lake water. Above them, the broken window opened out onto a sky full of stars. "You will not be safe here." But Divya shook her head. Crushing down the longing to escape that rose inside him, Diego did the same. "We will stay and fight," he called. "We are Shadowhunters. We cannot all flee and leave only the worst of us to seize power. We must resist." Kieran hesitated, just as the library door burst open. Gladstone and a dozen Cohort members swarmed in, their eyes widening. "Stop him!" Gladstone shouted, throwing an arm out toward Kieran. "Manuel--Anush--" "Kieran, go!" Diego roared, and Kieran seized Windspear's mane; they exploded into the air before Manuel could do more than take a step forward. Diego thought he saw Kieran look back at him once before Windspear cleared the ceiling and they shimmered into a white streak across the sky. Diego heard someone step up behind him. Across the room, Divya was looking at him. There were tears in her eyes. Behind her, her cousin Anush was cuffing her hands. "You're going to be so sorry you did this," Manuel said, his delighted whisper rasping in Diego's ear. "So very sorry, Rocio Rosales." And then there was only darkness. Emma was taken up behind Nene on her gray palfrey, while Julian rode behind Fergus, so there was no chance to talk. Frustration churned in Emma as they rode along under the green trees, the golden spears of light that drove down through the gaps in the trees turning to a deeper bronze as the day wore on. She wanted to talk to Julian, wanted to make a plan for what they were going to do when they reached the Seelie Court. What would they say to the Queen? How would they get out again? What did they want from her? But part of her was also too angry to talk to Julian--how dare he keep a massive part of their plan from her? Let her walk blind into Faerie, believing they had one mission when apparently they had another? And a smaller, colder part of her said: The only reason he wouldn't tell you was if he knew you'd refuse to go along with his plan. Whatever the plan was, Emma wasn't going to like it. And down even deeper, where she barely had the words for what she felt, she knew that if it weren't for the spell, Julian would never have done this, because she had never been one of the people Julian manipulated and lied to. She was family, inside the protected circle, and because of that she had forgiven the lies, the plans, because they hadn't been directed at her. They'd been directed at the enemies of the family. The Julian who had to lie and manipulate was a persona created by a frightened child to protect the people he loved. But what if the spell had made the persona real? What if that was who Julian was now? They had left the forest behind and were in a place of green fields that showed no sign of habitation. Just waving green grass for miles, starred with patches of blue and purple flowers, and dim violet mountains in the distance. A hill rose up in front of them like a green tidal wave, and Emma chanced a glance at Julian as the front of the hill rose like a portcullis, revealing a massive marble entryway. Things in Faerie rarely looked the same twice, Emma knew; the last time they'd entered the Seelie Court through a hill, they'd found themselves in a narrow corridor. Now they rode under an elegant bronze gate boasting scrollwork of prancing horses. Nene and Fergus dismounted, and it was only after Emma had slid to the marble floor that she saw that both horses' reins had been taken up by diminutive fluttering faeries with outspread wings of blue and red and gold. The horses clopped off, led by the buzzing pixies. "I could use one of those to do my hair in the morning," said Emma to Nene, who gave her an unreadable smile. It was unnerving how much Nene looked like Mark--the same curling white-blond hair and narrow bones. Fergus narrowed his eyes. "My son is married to a diminutive pixie," he said. "Please do not ask any intrusive questions about it." Julian raised his eyebrows but said nothing. He and Emma fell into step beside each other as they followed Nene and Fergus from the marble-clad room into an earth-packed corridor that twisted into the hill. "I guess everything went according to your plan, didn't it," Emma said coldly, not looking at Julian. She could feel him beside her, though, the familiar warmth and shape of him. Her parabatai, who she would have known deafened and blindfolded. "If you're lying about having the Black Volume, it's going to go badly for both of us." "I'm not lying," he said. "There was a copy shop near the London Institute. You'll see." "We weren't supposed to leave the Institute, Julian--" "This was the best option," said Julian. "You may be too sentimental to see it clearly, but this gets us closest to what we want." "How does it do that?" Emma hissed. "What's the point of coming to the Seelie Queen? We can't trust her, any more than we can trust Horace or Annabel." Julian's eyes glittered like the precious stones set into the walls of the long tunnel. They gleamed in stripes of jasper and quartz. The ground underfoot had become polished tile, a milky green-white. "Not trusting the Queen is part of my plan." Emma wanted to kick a wall. "You shouldn't have a plan that includes the Queen at all, don't you get it? We're all dealing with the Cold Peace because of her treachery." "Such anti-faerie sentiments," Julian said, ducking under a gray curtain of lace. "I'm surprised at you." Emma stalked after him. "It's nothing to do with faeries in general. But the Queen is a no-holds-barred bit--why hello, Your Majesty!" Oh crap. It seemed that the gray curtain they'd passed through was the entrance to the Queen's Court. The Queen herself was seated in the middle of the room, on her throne, regarding Emma coldly. The chamber looked as it had before, as if a fire had swept through the room years ago and no one had truly cleaned up the damage. The floor was blackened, cracked marble. The Queen's throne was tarnished bronze, the back of it rising high above her head in a fan-shaped scroll. The walls were gouged here and there, as if a massive beast had dug out clots of marble with its claws. The Queen was flame and bone. Her bony clavicles rose from the bodice of her intricately figured blue-and-gold dress; her long bare arms were thin as sticks. All around her tumbled her rich, deep red hair in thick waves of blood and fire. From her narrow white face, blue eyes blazed like gas flames. Emma cleared her throat. "The Queen is a no-holds-barred bit of sunshine," she said. "That's what I was going to say." "You will not greet me in that informal manner, Emma Carstairs," she said. "Do you understand?" "They were waylaid on the road and attacked," said Nene. "We sent pixie messengers ahead to tell you--" "I heard," said the Queen. "That does not excuse rudeness." "I think the blond one was about to call the Queen a besom," Fergus murmured to Nene, who looked as exasperated as faerie courtiers ever looked. "So true," said Emma. "Kneel," snapped the Queen. "Kneel, Emma Carstairs and Julian Blackthorn, and show proper respect." Emma felt her chin go up as if it had been pulled on a string. "We are Nephilim," she said. "We do not kneel." "Because once the Nephilim were giants on earth, with the strength of a thousand men?" The Queen's tone was gently mocking. "How the mighty have fallen." Julian took a step toward the throne. The Queen's eyes raked him up and down, assessing, measuring. "Would you rather an empty gesture or something you truly want?" he asked. The Queen's blue eyes flashed. "You are suggesting you have something I truly want? Think carefully. It is not easy to guess what a monarch desires." "I have the Black Volume of the Dead," Julian said. The Queen laughed. "I had heard you had lost that," she said. "Along with the life of your sister." Julian whitened, but his expression didn't change. "You never specified which copy of the Black Volume you wanted." As the Queen and Emma both stared, he reached into his pack and pulled out a bound white manuscript. Holes were punched into the left side, the whole thing held together with thick plastic ties. The Queen sat back, her flame-red hair brilliant against the dark metal of her throne. "That is not the Black Volume." "I think you will find if you examine the pages that it is," said Julian. "A book is the words it contains, nothing more. I took photos of every page of the Black Volume with my phone and had it printed and bound at a copy shop." The Queen tilted her head, and the thin gold circle binding her brow flashed. "I do not understand the words of your mortal spells and rituals," she said. Her voice had risen to a sharp pitch. Behind her sometimes mocking, sometimes laughing eyes, Emma thought she caught a glimpse of the true Queen, and what would happen if one crossed her, and she felt chilled. "I will not be tricked or mocked, Julian Blackthorn, and I do not trust your mischief. Nene, take the book from him and examine it!" Nene stepped forward and held out her hand. In the shadowy corners of the room, there was movement; Emma realized the walls were lined with faerie guards in gray uniforms. No wonder they'd allowed her and Julian to enter still carrying their weapons. There must be fifty guards here, and more in the tunnels. Let Nene have the hook, Julian, she thought, and indeed, he handed it over without a murmur. He watched calmly as Nene looked it over, her eyes flicking over the pages. At last she said, "This was made by a very skilled calligrapher. The brushstrokes are exactly as I remember." "A skilled calligrapher named OfficeMax," Julian muttered, but Emma didn't smile at him. The Queen was silent for a long time. The tapping of her slipper-shod foot was the only sound in the room as they all waited for her to speak. At last she said, "This is not the first time you have presented me with a perplexing issue, Julian Blackthorn, and I suspect it will not be the last." "It shouldn't be perplexing," said Julian. "It's the Black Volume. And you said if we gave you the Black Volume, you would help us." "Not quite," said the Queen. "I recall making promises, but some may no longer be relevant." "I am asking you to remember that you promised us aid," said Julian. "I am asking you to help us find Annabel Blackthorn here in Faerie." "We're already here to find her," Emma said. "We don't need this--this-- person's help." She glared at the Queen. "We have a map that barely works," said Julian. "The Queen will have spies all over Faerie. It could take us weeks to find Annabel. We could wander in Faerie forever while our food runs out. The Queen could lead us right to her. Nothing happens in this realm she doesn't know about." The Queen smirked. "And what do you want of Annabel when you find her? The second Black Volume?" "Yes," said Julian. "You can keep this copy. I need to take the original Black Volume back with me to Idris to prove to the Clave that it's no longer in the hands of Annabel Blackthorn." He paused. "And I want revenge. Pure and simple revenge." "There is nothing simple about vengeance, and nothing pure," said the Queen, but her eyes glittered with interest. If the Queen knew so much, why didn't she just go lull Annabel and take the Black Volume? Emma wondered. Because of the involvement of the Unseelie Court? But she kept her mouth shut--it was clear she and Julian were in no way in agreement on the Queen. "Before, you wished for an army," said the Queen. "Now you only want me to find Annabel for you?" "It's a better bargain for you," said Julian, and Emma noticed that he hadn't said "yes." He wanted more than this from the Queen. "Perhaps, but I will not be the final word on this volume's merit," said the Queen. "I must have an expert agree first. And you must remain in the Court until that is done." "No!" Emma said. "We will not stay an unspecified amount of time in Faerie." She spun on Julian. "That's how they get you! Unspecified amounts of time!" "I will watch over the two of you," said Nene unexpectedly. "For the sake of Mark. I will watch over you and make sure no harm comes to you." The Queen shot Nene an unfriendly look before returning her gaze to Emma and Julian. "What do you say?" "I'm not sure," Julian said. "We paid a high price for this book in blood and loss. To be told to wait--" "Oh, very well," said the Queen, and in her eyes Emma saw an odd light of eagerness. Perhaps she was more desperate for the book than Emma had thought? "As a sign of my good faith, I will give you part of what I promised. I will tell you, Julian, how certain bonds might be broken. But I will not tell her." She gestured at Emma. "That was not part of the bargain." Emma heard him inhale sharply. Julian's feelings for her might be deadened, she thought, but for whatever reason he still wanted this desperately. The knowledge of how their bond might be dissolved. Perhaps it was an atavistic want, as he had described his desire to protect Ty--a deep- rooted need for survival? "Nene," said the Queen. "Please escort Emma to the room she inhabited the last time she was a guest of the Court." Fergus groaned. It had been his bedroom Emma and Julian had slept in previously. Nene approached the Queen, placed the copy of the Black Volume at her feet, and backed away to stand at Emma's side. The Queen smiled with her red lips. "Julian and I will remain here, and speak in private," she said. "Guards, you may leave me. Leave us." "I don't need to," Emma said. "I know what this is about. Breaking all parabatai bonds. We don't need to hear about it. It's not going to happen." The Queen's gaze was scornful. "Little fool," she said. "You probably think you are protecting something sacred. Something good." "I know it's something you wouldn't understand," Emma said. "What would you say," said the Queen, "if I said to you: There is a corruption at the heart of the bond of parabatai. A poison. A darkness in it that mirrors its goodness. There is a reason parabatai cannot fall in love, and it is monstrous beyond all you could imagine." Her mouth shimmered like a poisoned apple as she smiled. "The parabatai rune was not given to you by the Angel but by men, and men are flawed. David the Silent and Jonathan Shadowhunter created the rune and the ceremony. Do you imagine that carries no consequences?" It was true, and Emma knew it. The parabatai rune was not in the Gray Book. But neither was the Alliance rune Clary had created, and that was regarded as a universal good. The Queen was twisting the truth to suit herself, as she always did. Her eyes, fixed on Emma's, were shards of blue ice. "I see you do not understand," she said. "But you will." Before Emma could protest, Nene took her arm. "Come," she murmured. "While the Queen is still in a good mood." Emma glanced at Julian. He hadn't moved from where he was, his back rigid, his gaze fixed firmly on the Queen. Emma knew she should say something. Protest, tell him not to listen to the Queen's trickster words, tell him that there was no way, no matter what was at stake, that they could justify the shattering of every parabatai bond in the world. Even if it would free them. Even if it would give Julian back to her. She couldn't force the words out. She walked out of the Queen's chamber beside Nene without another word. <|title|>Chapter 10: Many a Marvellous Shrine <|startofchapter|>The sight of the Shadow Market sent a punch of familiarity through Kit's chest. It was a typical Los Angeles night--the temperature had dropped as soon as the sun set, and a cool wind blew through the empty lot where the Market was, making the dozens of faerie bells that hung from the corners of white-canopied booths chime. Ty had been full of suppressed excitement all the way there in the back of the Uber car, which he'd dealt with by pushing up the sleeve of Kit's shirt and giving him several runes. Kit had three of them: Night Vision, Agility, and one called Talent, which Ty told him would make him more persuasive. Now they were standing at the circumference of the Market, having been dropped off in Kendall Alley. They were both dressed as mundanely as possible, in jeans, zip-front jackets, and Frye boots. But Ty was still visibly a Shadowhunter. He held himself like one, and he walked like one and looked like one, and there were even runes visible on the delicate skin of his neck and wrists. And bruises, too--all over the sides of his hands, the kind no mundane boy would have any business getting unless he was in an illegal fight club. It wouldn't have mattered if he could have covered them up, though. Shadowhunters seemed to bleed their angel heritage through their pores. Kit wondered if he himself did yet. "I don't see any gates," Ty said, craning his head. "The gates are--metaphysical. Not exactly real," Kit explained. They were walking toward the section of the Market where potions and charms were sold. A booth covered in tumbling roses in shades of red and pink and white sold love charms. One with a green-and-white awning sold luck and good fortune, and a pearly gray stand hung with curtains of lace, providing privacy, sold more dangerous items. Necromancy and death magic were both forbidden at the Market, but the rules had never been strictly enforced. A phouka was leaning against the post of a nearby streetlamp, smoking a cigarette. Behind him, the lanes of the Market looked like small, glowing streets, enticing Kit with calls of "Come buy!" Voices clamored, jewelry clinked and rattled, spice and incense perfumed the air. Kit felt a longing mixed with anxiety--he cut a quick sideways glance toward Ty. They hadn't entered the Market yet; was Ty thinking about how much he'd hated the London Market, how it had made him sweat and panic with too much noise, too much light, too much pressure, too much everything? He wanted to ask Ty if he was all right, but he knew the other boy wouldn't want it. Ty was staring at the Market, tense with curiosity. Kit turned to the phouka. "Gatekeeper," he said. "We request entrance to the Shadow Market." Ty's gaze snapped to attention. The phouka was tall, dark, and thin, with bronze and gold strands threaded through his long hair. He wore purple trousers and no shoes. The lamppost he leaned against was between two stalls, neatly blocking the way into the Market. "Kit Rook," said the phouka. "What a compliment it is, to still be recognized by one who has left us to dwell among the angels." "He knows you," muttered Ty. "Everyone in the Shadow Market knows me," said Kit, hoping Ty would be impressed. The phouka stubbed out his cigarette. It released a sickly sweet smell of charred herbs. "Password," he said. "I'm not saying that," said Kit. "You think it's funny to try to make people say that." "Say what? What's the password?" Ty demanded. The phouka grinned. "Wait here, Kit Rook," he said, and melted back into the shadows of the Market. "He's going to get Hale," said Kit, trying to hide the signs of his nerves. "Can they see us?" Ty said. He was looking into the Shadow Market, where clusters of Downworlders, witches and other assorted members of the magical underworld, moved among the clamor. "Out here?" It was like standing outside a lighted room in the dark, Kit thought. And though Ty might not express it that way, Kit suspected he felt the same. "If they can, they'd never show it," he said. Ty turned toward him suddenly. His gaze slipped over Kit's ear, his cheekbone, not quite meeting his eyes. "Watson--" "Kit Rook and Ty Blackthorn," snapped a voice out of the shadows. It was Barnabas Hale, head of the Market. "Actually, I'm assuming you're not actually Kit Rook and Ty Blackthorn, because they'd never be stupid enough to show up here." "That seemed like a compliment," said Ty, who looked honestly surprised. "Sure, maybe it's not us," said Kit. "Maybe someone just got the specifications for the candygramyou ordered wildly off." Hale frowned in annoyance. He looked as he always had: short and scaly- skinned, with a snake's slit-pupiled eyes. He wore a pin-striped suit that Kit assumed must have been heavily altered to fit. Most humans weren't three feet tall and three feet wide. The phouka had returned with Hale. Silently, he leaned against the lamppost again, his dark eyes glittering. "Prove you're Kit Rook," said Hale. "What's the password?" "I'm still not saying it. I'm never going to say it," said Kit. "What is it?" Ty demanded. "Just let us in," said Kit. "We don't want any trouble." Hale barked a laugh. "You don't want trouble? You two? You've got to be kidding me. Do you know what kind of mayhem you caused in London? You wrecked property, attacked vendors, and you"--he pointed at Ty--"destroyed a great deal of fey stock. I hate you both. Go away." "Hear me out," Kit said. "Remember when that faerie burned half the Market down and was welcomed back the next year because she had a bumper crop of hen's teeth? Remember the werewolf and the llama and how that turned out? And he wasn't banned, because he had a line on a supply of yin fen." "What's your point?" said Hale. He sighed. "God, I wish I had a cigar. Had to quit." "The spirit of the Market is simple," said Kit. "Everything's okay as long as you make a profit. Right?" "Sure," said Hale. "And that's why we tolerated Johnny Rook. We tolerated you because the Shadowhunters hadn't found you yet. But now they have and it's a hop, skip, and a jump until you find out who you really are--" "What's that supposed to mean?" said Ty. The wind had picked up and was blowing his dark hair like streamers. "Nothing for free," Hale said, with the annoyance of a man who'd said too much, and who also wanted a cigar and couldn't have one. "Besides, your money is no good here, Rook." He waved a hand in Ty's direction. "I might be able to get something in exchange for your skinny friend in the right circles, but not enough." "Theoretically, how much?" asked Ty with interest. Hale looked grim. "Not as good a price as I could get for Emma Carstairs-- even more for just her head." Ty blanched. Kit felt it, Ty's recollection that the Market was, in fact, truly dangerous. That it was all truly dangerous. Kit felt the situation was getting away from him. "No heads. Look, my father didn't trust anyone, Mr. Hale. You know that. He hid his most precious items all over Los Angeles, buried in places he thought no one would ever find them." "I'm listening," said Hale. Kit knew this was the risky part. "One is right here in the Shadow Market. A ruby-encrusted copy of the Red Scrolls of Magic." The phouka whistled, long and low. "Not only will I give it to you, I'll give it to you for free," said Kit. "All you have to do is let us back into the Shadow Market. Free trade." Hale shook his head in regret. "Now I really wish I had a cigar, so I could celebrate," he said. "I already found that, you stupid brat. We dug up your dad's stall after the Mantids killed him." He turned away, then paused, glancing back over his shoulder. The moonlight seemed to bounce off his white, scaled skin. "You're out of your depth, kids. Get out of Downworld before someone kills you. That person could even be me." A forked tongue shot from between his teeth and licked his lips. Kit started back, revolted, as Hale melted into the Market and was swallowed up by the crowds. Kit couldn't look at Ty. He felt as if the air had been knocked out of him, shock and shame warring for an equal chance to turn his stomach. "I...," he began. "You should have just given the password," said the phouka. Out of patience, Kit slowly raised his middle finger. "Here's the password." Ty muffled a laugh and grabbed Kit's sleeve. "Come on," he said. "Let's get out of here." "I am proud to announce," said Horace Dearborn, "that the proposed Downworld Registry is ready to become a reality." The sound that went through the rows of Nephilim seated in the Council Hall was hard to decipher. To Diana it sounded like the roar of an animal driving another hungry beast away from its prey. Horace stood with his hands folded behind his back, a toneless smirk on his face. At his left stood Zara, in full Centurion regalia, her hair braided in a crown around her head. At his right was Manuel, his expression carefully blank, his eyes dancing with malice. They looked like a horrible mockery of a family portrait. "All Institutes will have a short amount of time to register their local Downworlders," said Horace. "The heads of Institutes must meet a quota of registrations, based on our knowledge of local Downworld populations, in the first weeks this Law takes effect." Diana sat, letting the words wash over her in waves of horror. She couldn't help but look at Jia, who occupied a tall wooden seat at the edge of the dais. Her face was a strained mask. Diana couldn't help but wonder if this was more extreme even than what Jia had feared Horace might propose. "And if Downworlders refuse?" called someone from the audience. "Then they will have their protections under the Accords stripped from them," Zara said, and Diana went cold all over. No Accords protection meant a Shadowhunter could kill a Downworlder in the street for no reason, and there would be no consequences. "We understand this will be a great burden of work on Institutes, but it is important that everyone cooperate, for the good of all Shadowhunters." "Each Downworlder registered will be given a number," said Horace. "If a Downworlder is stopped by a Shadowhunter for any reason, anywhere, they can be asked for this number." The noise in the room was decidedly more worried now. "Think of it as a sort of identification card," said Manuel. "Safety and accountability are two of our chief concerns." "I want to hear from the Consul!" shouted Carmen Delgado Mendoza, head of the Mexico City Institute, from the audience. She was Cristina's mother, and looked more than a little bit like her daughter. Horace looked annoyed; technically, as the one proposing a new Law, he had the floor and could speak for a certain number of minutes uninterrupted. Diana felt that he had already been speaking for several years. He gestured ungraciously toward Jia, who gripped the arms of her chair tightly. "It is my opinion that this Law is not a good idea," she said. "Downworlders will resist what they will see to be a major overreach on the part of the Nephilim. It establishes an atmosphere of mistrust." "That's because we don't trust them," said Manuel. There was a gale of laughter from the back of the room. Diana could stand it no longer. She rose to her feet. "I have a question for the Inquisitor!" Horace looked at her with hooded eyes. "We will take questions and comments later, Diana." Diana didn't like the emphasis he put on her name. As if he found it distasteful. Probably Zara had told her father a pack of lies about Diana; Diana had once humiliated Zara in front of her fellow Centurions. Narcissists like Zara didn't forget insults. "Let her speak," said Jia. "Everyone on the Council has a voice." Intensely aware of the eyes on her, Diana said, "This may seem like a small action, but it's not going to seem small to Downworlders. It will have repercussions. Even if the Registry is temporary, there will always be reasons to continue it. It is far harder to dismantle this sort of structure than it is to build it. We could face a situation where Downworlders insist that Shadowhunters also be registered, for parity. Are you prepared to have Nephilim carry their papers everywhere with them?" This had the desired effect. The Council burst into angry buzzing. "No! Never!" Dearborn snapped. "Then this effectively creates an underclass of Downworlders," said Diana. "We will have rights that they don't. Think about that." "And why are you so bothered by that idea, Diana Wrayburn?" said Manuel in his soft, charming voice. His eyes glittered like marbles. "Is there a Downworlder, perhaps dear to you, that you worry will be affected?" "Many Shadowhunters have Downworlders that are dear to them," said Diana evenly. "You cannot cleanly sever us from a group of human beings who have more in common with us than mundanes do." Diana knew the answer to that: We're not afraid of mundanes. It's Downworlders we fear, and we seek to control what we fear. But it was unlikely Horace had that kind of self-awareness. He glared at her with open loathing as she took her seat. "This is clearly a complex issue," said Jia, rising to her feet. "I suggest we stay this vote for a week until the Council has had time to come to terms with all its ramifications." Horace transferred his glare to her, but said nothing. The Council was now a hum of relief, and even Horace Dearborn knew better than to fly directly in the face of popular opinion during a vote. He stayed on the dais as the meeting was dismissed, his supporters flocking around him in a thick crowd. Feeling inexpressibly weary, Diana made for one of the exits. She felt as if she had been called to witness a bloody execution only to see the victim spared for a week. Relief mixed with fear of what the future would bring. "Diana!" said a light, accented voice behind her. Diana turned to see one of the women from the Barcelona Institute--Trini Castel--approach her. She put a birdlike hand on Diana's arm. "I was inspired by what you said, Miss Wrayburn," she said. "You are correct that rights--anyone's rights--are not to be discarded lightly." "Thank you," said Diana, more than a little surprised. Trini Castel gave her a quick smile and scurried away, leaving Diana with a clear view of the dais. Zara stood at its edge, her gaze fixed on Diana. In the pale light filtering through the window, the naked hatred on her face--far more than anyone might feel over a past insult--was clear as day. Shuddering, Diana turned and hurried from the Hall. Catarina's suspicious confluence of ley lines turned out to be in a small desert park near the Antelope Valley Freeway, famous for its massive sandstone formations. Both Helen and Aline seemed faintly surprised that Mark and Cristina were planning to go out on patrol, but they hadn't done anything to stop them, as if they reluctantly acknowledged that patrolling was a normal part of Shadowhunter life, and the sooner everyone got back to normal life, the better. The drive from Malibu--they'd taken Diana's truck, which had been left in the parking lot of the Institute--reminded Cristina of long ambling road trips she'd taken with Emma. Windows down in the truck, music playing low on the speakers, beach turning to highway turning to desert as the sun went down in a haze of fire. Mark had his long legs up on the dashboard and would sometimes turn his head to look at her as they rolled along in silence; the weight of his gaze felt like skin against her skin. Like a touch. The Vasquez Rocks park closed at sunset, and the dirt parking lot was empty when Cristina cruised the truck into it and turned off the engine. They collected their weapons from the bed of the truck, snapping on wrist protectors and buckling weapons belts. Cristina strapped a longsword and her trusted balisong to her belt, while Mark found a runed black whip and cracked it a few times. He wore a look of pleasure on his face as it snaked across the darkening sky. They had runed themselves before they left. Cristina could see Mark's Night Vision rune gleaming black against his throat as they passed under the lights of the ranger station and crossed onto a dirt path that wound through scrub among rocks that twisted and folded like envelopes. Cristina breathed deeply. Of all the things she loved about California, she loved the scent of the desert the most: clear air mixed with juniper, manzanita, and sage. The sky opened above them like a secret told, scattered with a million stars. They passed a wooden sign for a trail just as a massive rock formation rose ahead of them, nearly blocking out the moon. "The ley line confluence," Mark said, pointing. Cristina didn't ask him how he knew; faeries had a sense for such things. They moved closer to the rocks, which rose above them in tilted slabs, like the remains of a spaceship that had crashed into the sand. Cristina's boots crunched on the sand, the sound loud in her ears thanks to her Audio rune. A sharp, insect-like sound buzzed behind her. She turned. Mark was frowning at the Sensor in his hand. "It's making a buzzing noise, but not one I've heard before," he said. Cristina turned around slowly. The desert stretched around her, a carpet of black and brown and dim gold. The sky was dark velvet. "I don't see anything." "We should wait here," said Mark. "See if it happens again." Cristina was in no mood to hang around under the romantic moon with Mark. "I think we should keep moving." "Cristina," Mark said. "You seem wroth with me." Cristina rolled her eyes. "Nothing gets by you, Mark Blackthorn." Mark lowered the Sensor. "Last night--It wasn't that I didn't want to--I did want to--" Cristina blushed furiously. "It's not that, Mark," she said. "You can want to or not want to. It's your business. It was that you lied." "Humans lie," he said, his bicolored eyes suddenly blazing. "Mortals lie to each other every day, especially in matters of love. Is it that my lie wasn't good enough? Should I be more practiced?" "No!" She whirled on him. "I like that you don't lie, Mark. It is why I was so --Mark, can't you understand? I didn't expect you to lie to me." "You saw me lie to Kieran," he said. "Yes, but that was to save lives," she said. "Unless you're telling me that you not wanting to have sex with me has something to do with saving lives, which I find hard to believe--" "I did want to!" Mark exploded. "One thing you must understand--I did want to be with you in that way, and all ways, and that is not a lie." Cristina sank down on a low rock. Her heart was pounding. And she'd just said the word "sex," which horribly embarrassed her. "Then I don't understand why you did it," she said in a small voice. "Were you trying to spare someone? Kieran?" "I was trying to spare you," he said, his voice dark and hard, like late- winter ice. "Spare me what?" "You know who you are!" he cried, startling her. She looked up at him, not understanding--it was not as if she were a stranger, to him or to anyone. What did he mean? "Kieran called you a princess of the Nephilim, and rightly," he said. The moon was out fully, and the silver-white light illuminated his hair like a halo. It illuminated his eyes, too--wide and gold and blue and full of pain. "You are one of the best examples of our people I have ever known--shining, righteous, virtuous. You are all the good things I can think of, and all the things I would like to be and know I never can. I do not want you to do anything that later you would regret. I do not want you to later realize how far down from your standards you reached, when you reached for me." "Mark!" She bolted up from the rock and went over to him. She heard a thump as something hit the ground, and threw her arms around Mark, hugging him tightly. For a moment he held himself stiff and frozen. Then he softened against her, his arms encircling her body, his lips brushing her cheek, the soft curls of her hair that had escaped from her braid. "Cristina," he whispered. She drew back enough to touch his face, her fingers tracing the lines of his cheekbones. His skin had that impossible faerie smoothness that came from never having needed the touch of a razor. "Mark Blackthorn," she said, and shivered deep in her bones at the look in his eyes. "I wish you could see yourself as I see you. You are so many things I never thought to want, but I do want them. I want all things with you." His arms tightened around her; he gathered her to him as if he were gathering an armful of flowers. His lips skated along her cheek, her jawline; at last their mouths met, burning hot in the cold air, and Cristina gave a little gasp at the desire that shot through her, sharp as an arrowhead. He tasted like honey and faerie wine. They staggered backward, fetching up against a rock pile. Mark's hands were on her gear jacket; he was undoing it, sliding his hands inside, under her shirt, as if desperate for the touch of her skin. He murmured words like "beautiful" and "perfect" and she smiled and swiped her tongue slowly across his bottom lip, making him gasp as if she had stabbed him. He groaned helplessly and pulled her tighter. The Sensor buzzed, loud and long. They sprang apart, gasping. Cristina zipped her jacket with shaking hands as Mark bent awkwardly to seize the Sensor. It buzzed again and they both whirled, staring. "No names" she whispered. The buzzer made another, insistent noise, and something hit her hard from the side. It was Mark. He'd knocked her to the ground; they both rolled sideways over the bumpy, pitted earth as something massive and shadowy rose above them. Black wings spread like ragged shadows. Cristina shoved herself up on her elbow, yanked a runed dagger from her belt, and flung it. There was a cawing scream. Witchlight lit the sky; Mark was on his knees, a rune-stone in his hand. Above them a massive white-faced demon trailing feathers like a shadowy cloak of rags flapped its wings; the hilt of Cristina's dagger protruded from its chest. Its outline was already beginning to blur as it screeched again, clawing at the hilt with a taloned claw, before folding up like paper and vanishing. "Harpyia demon," said Mark, leaping to his feet. He reached down to help Cristina up after him. "Probably hiding in the rocks. That's why the Sensor didn't pick it up well." "We should go." Cristina glanced around. "Judging by the Sensor, there are more." They began to jog toward the dirt trail, Cristina glancing back over her shoulder to see if anything was following them. "I just want to make it clear that I did not engineer the interruption of the Harpyia demon," Mark said, "and was indeed eager to continue with our sexual congress." Cristina sighed. "Good to know." She cut sideways through some low sagebrush. In the far distance, she could see the metal gleam of the parked truck. Mark's footsteps slowed. "Cristina. Look." She glanced around. "I don't see--" "Look down," he said, and she did. She remembered thinking that her boots had crunched oddly on the sand. Now she realized that it was because it wasn't sand. A bleak moonscape stretched around them in a twenty-foot radius. The succulent plants and sagebrush were withered, gray-white as old bones. The sand looked as if it had been blasted with wildfire, and the skeletons of jackrabbits and snakes were scattered among the rocks. "It is the blight," said Mark. "The same blight we saw in Faerie." "But why would it be here?" Cristina demanded, bewildered. "What do ley lines have to do with the blight? Isn't that faerie magic?" Mark shook his head. "I don't--" A chorus of shrieking howls ripped through the air. Cristina spun, kicking up a cloud of dust, and saw shadows rising out of the desert all around them. Now Cristina could see them more closely: They resembled birds only in that they were winged. What looked like feathers were actually trailing black rags that swathed their gaunt white bodies. Their mouths were so stuffed with crooked, jagged teeth that it looked as if they were grotesquely smiling. Their eyes were popping yellow bulbs with black dot pupils. "But the Sensor," she whispered. "It didn't go off. It didn't--" "Run," Mark said, and they ran, as the Harpyia demons soared screeching and laughing into the sky. A rock thumped to the ground near Cristina, and another barely missed Mark's head. Cristina longed to turn and plunge her balisong into the nearest demon, but it was too hard to aim while they were both running. She could hear Mark cursing as he dodged rocks the size of baseballs. One slammed painfully into Cristina's hand as they reached the truck and she jerked the door open; Mark climbed in the other side, and for a moment they sat gasping as rocks pounded down onto the truck's cab like hailstones. "Diana is not going to be happy about her car," said Mark. "We have bigger problems." Cristina jammed the keys into the ignition; the truck started with a jerk, rolled backward--and stopped. The sound of the rocks pounding the metal roof had ceased as well, and the silence seemed suddenly eerie. "What's going on?" she demanded, stomping down on the gas. "Get out!" Mark shouted. "We have to get out!" He grabbed hold of Cristina's arm, hauling her over the center console. They both tumbled out of the passenger-side door as the truck lifted into the air, Cristina landing awkwardly half on top of Mark. She twisted around to see that Harpyia demons had seized the truck, their claws puncturing the metal sides of the bed and digging into the window frames. The vehicle sailed into the air, the Harpyia demons shrieking and giggling as they hauled it up into the sky--and dropped it. It spun end over end and hit the ground with a massive crash of metal and glass, rolling sideways to lie upended on the sand. One of the Harpyia had ridden it down as if it were a surfboard and still crouched, snarking and cackling, on the frame of the upside-down truck. Cristina leaped to her feet and stalked toward the truck. As she got closer, she could smell the stink of spilling gasoline. The Harpyia, too stupid to realize the danger, turned its dead-white, grinning face toward her. "The rocks are our place," it hissed at her. "Poisoned. The best place." "Collate!" she snapped, unsheathed her longsword, and sliced off its head. Ichor exploded upward in a spray even as the Harpyia's body folded up and winked out of existence. The other demons howled and dived; Cristina saw one of them dive-bombing Mark and screamed his name; he leaped onto a rock and slashed out with his whip. Ichor opened a glowing seam across the Harpyia's chest and it thumped to the sand, chittering, but another Harpyia was already streaking across the sky. Mark's whip curled around its throat and he jerked hard, sending its head bumping like a tumbleweed among the rocks. Something struck Cristina's back; she screamed as her feet left the ground. A Harpyia had sunk its claws into the back of her gear jacket and was lifting her into the air. She thought of stories about how eagles flew high into the sky with their prey and then released them, letting their bodies smash open on the earth below. The ground was already receding below her with terrifying speed. With a scream of fear and anger, she slashed up and backward with her sword, slicing the Harpyia's claws off at the joint. The demon shrieked and Cristina tumbled through the air, her sword falling out of her hand, reaching out as if she could catch onto something to slow her fall-- Something seized her out of the sky. She gasped as a hand caught her elbow, and she was yanked sideways to land awkwardly atop something warm and alive. A flying horse. She gasped and scrabbled for purchase, digging into the creature's mane as it dipped and dived. "Cristina! Stay still!" It was Kieran shouting. Kieran was behind her, one arm lashing around her waist to pull her against him. What felt like an electric charge shot through her. Kieran was wild-eyed, his hair deep blue-black, and she realized suddenly that the horse was Windspear, even as the stallion shot downward through the crowd of Harpyia toward Mark. "Kieran--look out--" she cried, as the Harpyia demons turned their attention to Windspear, their popping yellow eyes swiveling like flashlights. Kieran flung his arm out, and Cristina felt the sharp electric charge go through her again. White fire flashed and the Harpyia demons recoiled as Windspear landed lightly in front of Mark. "Mark! To me!" Kieran shouted. Mark looked over at him and grinned--a Hunter's grin, a battle grin, all teeth--before decapitating a last Harpyia with a jerk of his whip. Splattered with blood and ichor, Mark leaped onto the horse behind Kieran, latching his arms around Kieran's waist. Windspear sprang into the air and the Harpyia followed, their grinning mouths open to show rows of sharklike teeth. Kieran shouted something in a Faerie language Cristina didn't know, and Windspear tilted up at an impossible angle. The horse shot upward like an arrow, just as the truck below them finally exploded, swallowing the Harpyia demons in a massive corona of flames. Diana's going to be really angry about her truck, Cristina thought, and slumped down against Windspear's mane as the faerie horse circled below the clouds, turned, and flew toward the ocean. Kit had never been up on the roof of the Los Angeles Institute before. He had to admit it had a better view than the London Institute, unless you were a sucker for skyscrapers. Here you could see the desert stretching out behind the house, all the way to the mountains. Their tops were touched by light reflected from the city on the other side of the range, their valleys in deep shadow. The sky was brilliant with stars. In front of the house was the ocean, its immensity terrifying and glorious. Tonight the wind was like light fingers stroking its surface, leaving trails of silver ripples behind. "You seem sad," said Ty. "Are you?" They were sitting on the edge of the roof, their legs dangling into empty space. This was probably the way he was supposed to live his high school years, Kit thought, climbing up onto high places, doing dumb and dangerous things that would worry his parents. Only he had no parents to worry, and the dangerous things he was doing were truly dangerous. He wasn't worried for himself, but he was worried for Ty. Ty, who was looking at him with concern, his gray gaze skating over Kit's face as if it were a book he was having trouble reading. Yes, I'm sad, Kit thought. I'm stuck and frustrated. I wanted to impress you at the Shadow Market and I got so caught up in that I forgot about everything else. About how we really shouldn't be doing this. About how I can't tell you we shouldn't be doing this. Ty reached out and brushed Kit's hair away from his face, an absent sort of gesture that sent a shot of something through Kit, a feeling like he'd touched a live electrical fence. He stared, and Ty said, "You ought to get your hair cut. Julian cuts Tavvy's hair." "Julian's not here," said Kit. "And I don't know if I want him cutting my hair." "He's not bad at it." Ty dropped his hand. "You said your dad had stuff hidden all over Los Angeles. Is there anything that could help us?" Your dad. As if Julian was Ty's father. Then again, he was in a way. "Nothing necromantic," said Kit. Ty looked disappointed. Still dizzy from the electric-fence shock, Kit couldn't stand it. He had to fix it, that look on Ty's face. "Look--we tried the straightforward approach. Now we have to try the con." "I don't really get cons," said Ty. "I read a book about them, but I don't understand how people let themselves get tricked like that." Kit's eyes dropped to the gold locket around Ty's neck. There was still blood on it. It looked like patches of rust. "It's not about making people believe what you want them to believe. It's about letting them believe what they want to believe. About giving them what they think they need." Ty raised his eyes; though they didn't meet Kit's, Kit could read the expression in them, the dawning awareness. Does he realize? Kit thought, in mingled relief and apprehension. Ty sprang to his feet. "I have to send a fire-message to Hypatia Vex," he said. This was not at all what Kit had expected him to say. "Why? She already said no to helping us." "She did. But Shade says she's always wanted to run the Shadow Market herself." Ty smiled sideways, and in that moment, despite their difference in coloring, he looked like Julian. "It's what she thinks she needs." The sky was a road and the stars made pathways; the moon was a watchtower, a lighthouse that led you home. Being on Windspear's back was both utterly strange and utterly familiar to Mark. So was having his arms around Kieran. He had flown through so many skies holding Kieran, and the feeling of Kieran's body against his, the whipcord strength of him, the faint ocean-salt scent of his skin and hair, was mapped into Mark's blood. At the same time he could hear Cristina, hear her laughing, see her as she bent to point out landmarks flashing by beneath them. She had asked Kieran if they could fly over the Hollywood sign and he had obliged; Kieran, who made a point of being disobliging. And Mark's heart stirred at her laugh; it stirred as he touched Kieran; he was between them again, as he had been in London, and though agitation prickled his nerves at the thought, he couldn't pretend he wasn't glad to have Kieran back again. Kieran brought Windspear down in the lot behind the Institute. Everything was still, broken only by the sound of chirping cicadas. It was hard to believe that ten minutes previously they had been in a fight to the death with Harpyia demons. "Are you all right?" Cristina said with a frown, as she slid from the horse's back. "You don't look well." With a start, Mark realized she was talking to Kieran. And that she was right. Kieran had arrived at the Vasquez Rocks almost crackling with energy. It was a kind of wild, numinous magic Mark associated with the royal family but had never seen Kieran employ before. But the energy seemed to have left him; he leaned a hand against Windspear's side, breathing hard. There was blood on his hands, his collar and skin; his face was drained of color. Mark stepped forward, hesitated. He remembered Kieran telling him that they were done. "I didn't know you were hurt at the rocks, Kier," he said. "No. This happened at the Scholomance." "Why did you leave?" Cristina asked. "There's something I need to tell you." Kieran winced, and slapped Windspear on the flank. The horse whickered and trotted into the shadows, melting into the darkness. "First we must get you upstairs." Cristina glanced at Mark as if she expected him to step forward to help Kieran. When he didn't, she moved to Kieran's side, curving his arm around her shoulder. "We must see how badly you are wounded." "It is important--" Kieran began. "So is this." Cristina moved forward with Kieran leaning on her. Mark could no longer stand it; he swung around to Kieran's other side, and together they went into the house, Kieran limping between them. "Thank you, Mark," Kieran said in a low voice. When Mark chanced a glance sideways, he saw no anger in Kieran's eyes, but hadn't Kieran been angry the last time they had been together? Had Kieran forgotten Mark had wronged him? It was not in the nature of princes to forget wrongs or forgive them. Cristina was saying something about water and food; Mark's mind was in a whirl, and for a moment, when they stepped into the kitchen, he blinked around in confusion. He'd thought they were going to one of their rooms. Cristina helped Mark get Kieran settled into a chair before going to the sink to get damp towels and soap. "I must speak to you of what I have learned," Kieran was saying; he was perched on the chair, all long limbs and dark, odd clothes and burning eyes. His hair shimmered deep blue. He looked like a faerie out of place in the human world, and it stabbed Mark through with a painful sympathy mixed with a fear that he might look like that himself. "Let me see your face." Cristina brushed Kieran with gentle fingers; he leaned into her touch, and Mark could not blame him. "What's going on?" Light blazed up in the kitchen; it was Helen, carrying a rune-stone in one hand. "Is someone hurt?" Mark and Cristina exchanged startled looks; Kieran looked between Mark and Helen, his lips parting in realization. "Were you waiting up for us?" Mark demanded. "It's past midnight." "I was ... not." Helen looked down at her sweatpants guiltily. "I wanted a sandwich." She squinted at Kieran. "Did you trade in Diana's truck for a faerie prince?" Kieran was still looking at her with that same realization and Mark knew what he must be seeing: someone who was so clearly Mark's sister, so clearly the Helen that Mark had spoken about with such pain for so many years in the Hunt. He rose to his feet and crossed the room to Helen. He lifted her free hand and kissed the back of it. "The beloved sister of my beloved Mark. It is a joy to behold you well and reunited with your family." "I like him," Helen said to Mark. Kieran lowered her hand. "May I share my sorrow at the passing of your sister Livia," he said. "It is a shame to see such a bright and beautiful star untimely extinguished." "Yes." Helen's eyes glistened. "Thank you." I don't understand. Mark felt as if he were in a dream. He had imagined Kieran meeting his family, but it had not been like this, and Kieran had never been so gracious, even in Mark's imagination. "Perhaps we should all sit down," Helen said. "I think I'd better hear about what happened tonight on your 'normal patrol.'" She raised an eyebrow at Mark. "I must first tell you of what befell at the Scholomance," said Kieran firmly. "It is imperative." "What happened?" Cristina said. "I thought it would be safe for you there "It was, for a short time," said Kieran. "Then the Cohort returned from Idris and discovered me. But that story must wait. I came to bring you news." He glanced around at their expectant faces. "The Inquisitor of the Clave has sent Emma and Julian on a secret mission to Faerie. They are not expected either to return or to survive." Mark felt numb all over. "What do you mean?" "It is a dangerous mission--and someone has been sent after them to make sure they don't complete it--" Gasping, Kieran slumped back in his chair, looking terribly pale. Mark and Cristina both reached to steady him at the same time. They looked at each other in some surprise over Kieran's bowed head. "Kieran, you're bleeding!" Cristina exclaimed, taking her hand away from his shoulder. It was stained red. "It is nothing," Kieran said roughly. Not a lie, precisely--Mark was sure he believed it, but his ashen face and feverish eyes told another story. "Kier, you're unwell," said Mark. "You must rest. You cannot do anyone any good in this condition." "Agreed." Cristina stood up, her hand still red with Kieran's blood. "We must see to your wounds at once." "You have changed, son of thorns," said the Queen. She had been silent for some minutes while the room emptied of guards and observers. Even then, Julian did not entirely believe that they were alone. Who knew what sprites or cluricauns might hide among the shadows? Julian had been pacing, impelled by a restlessness he couldn't explain. Then again, he could explain little of what he felt these days. There were impulses he followed, others he avoided, angers and dislikes and even hopes, but he could not have explained the emotion that led him to kill Dane, or what he felt afterward. It was as if the words he needed to describe what he had felt had disappeared from his mental vocabulary. He remembered someone had once told him that the last words of Sebastian Morgenstern had been I've never felt so light. He felt light himself, having put down a weight of constant fear and longing he had grown so used to carrying he no longer noticed it. But still, deep down, the thought of Sebastian chilled him. Was it wrong to feel lightness? He was conscious now of impatience, and a knowledge, though it was distant, that he was playing with fire. But the knowledge did not come accompanied either by fear or by excitement. It was distant. Clinical. "We are alone," said the Queen. "We could amuse ourselves." Now he did look at her. Her throne had changed, and so had she. She seemed to be draped along the cushions of a red chaise, her coppery hair tumbling around her. She was radiantly beautiful, the gaunt outlines of her face filled in with youth and health, her brown eyes glowing. The Queens eyes are blue. Emma's are brown. But it didn't change what he was seeing; the Queen's eyes were the color of tiger's-eye stones and shimmered as she gazed at him. Her dress was white satin, and as she slowly drew up one leg, sliding her toe along her opposite calf, it fell open at the slit, revealing her legs up to her hips. "That's a glamour," Julian said. "I know what's underneath." She rested her chin on her hand. "Most people would not dare to speak that way to the Seelie Queen." "Most people don't have something the Seelie Queen wants," said Julian. He felt nothing, looking at her: She was beautiful, but he could not have desired her less if she'd been a beautiful rock or a beautiful sunset. She narrowed her eyes and they flickered back to blue. "You are indeed different," she said, "more like a faerie." "I'm better," he said. "Really?" The Queen sat up slowly, her silken dress resettling around her. "There is a saying among my people, about the mortals we bring here: In the Land of Faerie, as mortals feel no sorrow, neither can they feel joy" "And why is that?" asked Julian. She laughed. "Have you ever wondered how we lure mortals to live amongst faeries and serve us, son of thorns? We choose those who have lost something and promise them that which humans desire most of all, a cessation to their grief and suffering. Little do they know that once they enter our Lands, they are in the cage and will never again feel happiness." She leaned forward. "You are in that cage, boy." A shiver went up Julian's spine. It was atavistic, primal, like the impulse that had driven him to climb Livvy's pyre. "You're trying to distract me, my lady. How about giving me what you promised?" "What do you mind about the parabatai bond now? It seems you no longer care for Emma. I saw it in the way she looked at you. As if she missed you though you were standing beside her." "The bonds," Julian said through his teeth. "How can they be broken?" His head throbbed. Maybe he was dehydrated. "Very well." The Queen leaned back, letting her long hair spill over the side of the chaise and down to the ground. "Though it may not please you." "Tell me." "The parabatai rune has a weakness that no other rune has, because it was created by Jonathan Shadowhunter, rather than the Angel Raziel," said the Queen. As she spoke she drew on the air with her fingertip, in lazy spirals. "Kept in the Silent City is the original parabatai rune inscribed by Jonathan Shadowhunter and David the Silent. If it is destroyed, all the parabatai runes in the world will be broken." Julian could hardly breathe. His heart was hammering against his chest. All the bonds in the world. Broken. He still couldn't explain what he was feeling, but the intensity of it made him feel as if he were bursting out of his own skin. "Why would I not be pleased to hear that?" he asked. "Because it would be difficult?" "Not difficult. Impossible. Oh, it wasn't always impossible," said the Queen, sitting up and smirking at him. "When I spoke to you about it first, it was in good faith. But things have changed." "What do you mean?" Julian demanded. "How have things changed?" "I mean there is only one way to destroy the rune," the Queen said. "It must be cut through and through by the Mortal Sword." <|title|>Chapter 11: Some Far-Off Happier Sea <|startofchapter|> The wound was long but not deep, a slice across Kieran's right upper arm. Kieran sat with his teeth gritted atop the bed in one of the Institute's empty guest rooms, his sleeve cut away by Cristina's balisong. Mark leaned nervously against a nearby wall, watching. Cristina had been a little surprised at how muscular Kieran's arm was; even after he'd carried her through London, she'd thought of faeries as delicate, fine-boned. And he was, but there was toughness there too. His muscles seemed more tightly wrapped against his bones than a human's, giving his body a lean, tensile strength. She finished carefully mopping the blood away from the cut and ran her fingers lightly over the skin around it. Kieran shivered, half-closing his eyes. She felt guilty for causing him pain. "I see no sign of infection or need for the wound to be stitched," she said. "Bandaging it should do the trick." Kieran looked at her sideways. It was hard to discern his expression in the shadows: There was only one lamp in the room, and it was heavily shaded. "I'm sorry to have brought this trouble to you," Kieran said in a soft voice. A nighttime voice, careful of waking those who might be sleeping. "Both of you." "You didn't bring us trouble," said Mark, his voice roughened with tiredness. "You brought us information that can help us save the lives of people we love. We're grateful." Kieran frowned, as if he weren't too fond of the word "grateful." Before Cristina could add anything, a cry split the night--a howl of miserable terror. Even knowing what it was, Cristina shivered. "Tavvy," she said. "He's having a nightmare," Mark confirmed. "Poor child," said Kieran. "The terrors of the night are grim indeed." "He'll be all right," Mark said, though worry shadowed his expression. "He wasn't there when Livvy died, thank the Angel, but I think he heard whispers. Perhaps we shouldn't have brought him to the funeral. To see the pyres--" "I believe such things are a comfort," Cristina said. "I believe they allow our souls to say good-bye." The door creaked open--someone ought to see to the hinges--and Helen stuck her head in, looking distressed. "Mark, will you go to Tavvy?" Mark hesitated. "Helen, I shouldn't--" "Please." Helen leaned exhaustedly against the doorjamb. "He's not used to me yet and he won't stop crying." "I'll take care of Kieran," Cristina said, with more confidence than she felt. Mark followed Helen from the room with clear reluctance. Feeling awkward at being left alone with Kieran, Cristina took a bandage from the kit and began to wind it around his upper arm. "I always to seem to end up tending your wounds," she said half-jokingly. But Kieran did not smile. "That must be why," he said, "whenever I suffer, I now long for the touch of your hands." Cristina looked at him in surprise. He was clearly more delirious than she had thought. She laid a hand on his forehead: He was burning up. She wondered what a normal temperature for faeries was. "Lie down." She tied off the bandage. "You should rest." Her hair swung forward as she bent over him. He reached up and tucked a lock behind her ear. She went still, her heart thudding. "I thought of you at the Scholomance," he said. "I thought of you every time anyone used Diego's name, Rosales. I could not stop thinking of you." "Did you want to?" Her voice shook. "Stop thinking of me?" He touched her hair again, his fingers light where they brushed her cheek. The sensation made goose bumps flood across her skin. "I know that you and Mark are together. I do not know where I fit into all of that." His cheeks were fever flushed. "I know how much I have hurt you both. I feel it, down in my bones. I would never want to hurt either of you a second time. Tomorrow I will leave here, and neither of you need ever see me again." "No!" Cristina exclaimed, with a force that surprised her. "Do not go, not alone." "Cristina." His right hand came up to curve around her other cheek; he was cupping her face. His skin was hot; she could see the blotches of fever on his cheeks, his collarbone. "Princess. You will be better off without me." "I am not a princess," she said; she was leaning over him, one of her hands braced against the blanket. His face was close to hers, so close she could see the dark fringe of his eyelashes. "And I do not want you to go." He sat up, his hands still cradling her face. She gave a little gasp and felt her own temperature spike at the warmth of his hands as they moved from her face to her shoulders, to the curve of her waist, drawing her toward him. She let herself fall atop him, her body stretched along his, their hips and chests aligned. He was tense as a drawn bow, tight and arched beneath her. His hands were fever hot, carding through her soft hair. She placed her palms against his hard chest. It rose and fell rapidly. Her mind was spinning. She wanted to press her lips against the fine skin over his cheekbone, graze his jaw with kisses. She wanted, and the wanting shocked her, the intensity of it. She had never felt such intensity for anyone but Mark. Mark. She drew away from Kieran, nearly tumbling to the coverlet. "Kieran, I--we shouldn't, you--you have a fever." He rolled onto his side, eyes bright as he studied her. "I do have a fever," he said. "I am not out of my mind, though. I have been wanting to hold you for a long time." "You haven't even known me that long," she whispered, though she knew she was lying in a very human way, hiding what she really meant behind irrelevancies. The truth was that she had wanted Kieran, too, and she suspected she had for some time. "Lie back. You need to rest. We will have plenty of time to .. . talk more if you do not leave." She sat up. "Promise me you won't leave." Kieran's eyes were averted, his lashes like the rays of a dark star. "I should not stay. I will only bring sorrow to you and to Mark." "Promise me," Cristina hissed. "I promise I will stay," he said at last. "But I cannot promise that you will not regret that I did." Nene showed Emma into the room she and Julian had stayed in the last time they'd been in the Seelie Court. The silvery-quartz walls pulsed with low light, and the rose hedge Emma remembered was gone. Instead the waterfall cascaded fiercely down the rock wall as if powered by a flood, pouring into an unshaded pool several feet below the floor. "It's kind of Fergus to let us stay in his room," Emma said as Nene ushered her in. "Fergus has no choice," said Nene serenely. "It's what the Queen desires." Emma blinked. That seemed odd and not auspicious. Why did the Queen care where they stayed? Her gaze strayed over the rest of the room--there was a table she could put her bag down on, there was a sofa made of vines twining closely together-She frowned. "Where's the bed?" "Behind the waterfall, in Fergus's bower." "His what?" "His bower." Nene pointed. Sure enough, a set of stone steps wound behind the curtain of the waterfall. Apparently Fergus liked to mix it up in the design area. "What is wrong with a bower?" "Nothing," said Emma. "I was thinking of getting one myself." Nene gave her a suspicious look before leaving her alone. Emma heard the key turn in the lock as she shut the door and didn't even bother to try the knob. Even if she escaped from the room, she'd have no way of finding her way through the corridors. And it wasn't as if she'd go anywhere without Julian, who wanted to be here anyway. The last thing she felt like was sleeping, but she'd learned to snatch rest at any time on missions. She changed into her nightgown and mounted the stone steps behind the waterfall. They led to a stone platform hidden behind the water. Despite her miserable mood, Emma was struck by the beauty of it. The bed was massive, piled with cloudy white cushions and a heavy coverlet. The waterfall sheeted by past the foot of the bed in a curtain of glimmering silver; the rush and roar of water surrounded the space, reminding Emma of the crash of waves against the beach. She sank down on the bed. "Nice room," she said, to no one in particular. "Sorry. Bower." Time to sleep, she decided. She lay down and closed her eyes, but the first image that sprang up against her lids was the image of Julian holding Livvy's body in the Council Hall. His face against her blood-wet hair. Emma's eyelids popped open, and she turned over restlessly. It didn't help; the next time she tried, she saw Dane's open, staring eyes as the kelpie sank its teeth into his body. Too much. Too much blood, too much horror. She wanted Julian badly; she missed him as if it had been a week since she'd seen him. In a way, it had been. Even her parabatai rune felt strange--she was used to the pulse of its energy, but even before they had come to Faerie, reaching for that energy had been like slamming into a blank wall. She turned over again, wishing for Cristina, who she could talk to. Cristina, who would understand. But could she tell even Cristina about the spell that had stripped Julian of his emotions? And what about his deal with the Queen? It had been an ugly sort of brilliant, she thought, to make a copy for the Fair Folk. They were both tricky and literal enough to at least consider the copy as sufficient for their purposes. It was too bad Julian couldn't simply have given the copy to Horace, but he would have laughed in their faces: Even a Dearborn knew what printer paper looked like. He didn't want to perform the spells in the book, after all; he simply wanted back the property he believed Annabel had stolen, the Black Volume that had lived so many years on the shelves of the Cornwall Institute. She heard the door of the room open, voices, Julian's tread on the stairs, and then he was by the bed; she hadn't realized how the light pouring through the water would turn him into an effigy of silver. Even his dark hair was silvered, as if she was seeing him the way he might look in thirty years. She sat up. He didn't move or seem as if he was about to say anything. He stood looking at her, and when he raised his hand to push his hair back, she saw again the stained cloth tied around his wrist. "So how'd it go?" she asked finally. "Did you find out how to break all the parabatai bonds in the world?" "As it turns out, it's not possible." He leaned against a bedpost. "You must be pleased." "Yes." She kicked a pillow down to the foot of the bed. "I mean, that's a relief, but I'm still curious why you suddenly decided to trust the Seelie Queen when she's literally never been trustworthy." "She didn't betray us before," said Julian. "We made a deal with her, but we never brought her the Black Volume--until now." "She did terrible things to Jace and Clary--" "Maybe they just didn't know how to deal with her properly." His blue- green eyes glittered. "The Queen only cares about the Queen. She isn't interested in causing pain for the sake of causing it. She just wants what she wants. If you remember that, you can deal with her." "But why did we ever have to--" "Look, it was obvious we couldn't trust Dearborn from the beginning. This isn't just a secret mission like Clary and Jace's. He brought us to Brocelind alone. He sent us through the door to Faerie without anyone else there. Horace Dearborn is not on our side," Julian said. "He thinks we're enemies. Downworlder-lovers. Sure, he thinks we can get the Black Volume back for him--but he planned for us to die doing it. What do you think happens, Emma, when we go home if we don't have it? In fact, how do you think we even get back--do you really feel like we can trust some guy standing at Bram's Crossroads on Horace's orders?" She'd been so caught up in anger at Julian she hadn't stopped to think about how they might get home from Faerie. "Dane said it wasn't just him," she said. "Do you think he meant there'll be someone waiting at Bram's Crossroads to kill us?" "There could be someone waiting around every corner to kill us," Julian said. "Dane was an idiot--he came for us too fast, before we had the real book. But they may not all be. Our lives are in danger here every second. If we have a deal with the Queen, we're under her protection." "We need an ally," Emma said. "And she's weird and opportunistic and terrible but better than nothing. That's what you're saying?" "Every plan involves risk," Julian said. "Not going to the Queen was a risk. Strategy is choosing between the risks--there is no safe way, Emma, not for us. Not since the minute Horace called us into his office." "And if we return with the real Black Volume, he'll just kill us and take it," said Emma. "That was his plan anyway." "No," Julian said. "That was his plan when he thought he was controlling how we returned. If we decide how and where we return, we can walk into any Council meeting and present the Black Volume, bravely rescued from our faerie foes. Horace thought he could get rid of us easily because we were in disgrace. It'll be much harder to do if we return in triumph." "Fine," she said. "I get what you think we're doing. I don't know if I agree about working with the Queen, but at least I understand. But you know what would have been better? If you'd included me in the part where you chose what risk we were going to take." "I didn't see the point," he said. "You would have worried, and for what?" Emma felt tears burn behind her eyes. "This isn't you. You'd never say that." Julian's eyes flashed. "You know I've always done whatever needed to be done to keep us safe. I thought you understood that about me." "This is different. Remember--Julian, remember what Dane said, that you were the kind of guy who would have a girl for a parabatai?" She knelt up on the bed, raising her chin to look him directly in the eye. "That's what I always loved about you, even before I was in love with you. You never thought for a second about it diminishing you to have a girl as your warrior partner, you never acted as if I was anything less than your complete equal. You never for a moment made me feel like I had to be weak for you to be strong." He looked away. Emma pressed on: "You knew we were always stronger together. You've always treated me as though my opinion matters. You've always respected my ability to make decisions for myself. But you're not acting like that now. It's not some small thing that you lied to me, Julian, it's a betrayal of everything we swore in our parabatai ceremony. It's one thing for you to not want to treat me like your girlfriend, but it's entirely another for you to not treat me like your parabatai." Julian crawled onto the bed beside her. "This isn't what I planned," he said. "I was concerned that you'd refuse to go to the Seelie Court, and I was just trying to move fast." The shimmer of the waterfall altered, and Julian's hair was dark again, his lashes making shadows against his cheeks. "I had no idea you'd be so upset about--everything." "Of course you had no idea." Having Julian this close made her nerves feel like they were jumping inside her skin. They were both kneeling, facing each other; he was so close she could have reached out and put her arms around him without even needing to lean forward. "You have no idea because you have no feelings. Because you turned off all your emotions, not just about me, but about everything"-- about Livvy, even about Livvy --"and that's going to come back and bite you in the end." "I don't," he said. "You don't what?" He slid his hand across the bed so that his fingertips touched hers, just barely. Emma's heart kicked into a faster beat. "I don't have no feelings at all." He sounded lost and a little baffled. "I just don't entirely understand what it is that I do feel. Except that--I need you not to be angry, Emma." She froze. His fingers curved around to stroke the inside of her wrist. Emma felt as if every nerve ending in her body was concentrated there, where his fingers touched. He was touching her pulse. Her heart. "I'm sorry, Emma," he said. "I'm sorry." Her heart leaped. With a low cry, she reached out for him; on their knees, they wrapped their arms around each other. He dipped his head to kiss her, and all her breath left her body. He tasted the way she imagined faerie fruit would taste, sweeter than any sugar on earth. She was dizzy with the memory of the first time she'd kissed him, wet from seawater, hungry and desperate. This was languorous, hot with a slow desire: He explored her mouth thoroughly with his own, stroking his fingertips over her cheekbones, cupping her jaw to tilt her head back. He pulled her closer. His body still works the same, she thought. Feelings or no feelings. There was a terrible satisfaction in it. He felt something for her, even if it was only a physical something. But he had said he was sorry. Surely that meant something. Perhaps that the spell was wearing off. Maybe it wasn't permanent. Maybe-- He kissed the corner of her mouth, the pulse at her neck. His lips were soft against her throat; his hands caught the hem of her nightgown, working it up her thighs. Let it happen, her body said. Get whatever you can of him, because there might never be anything else. His hands were under her gown. He knew where she liked to be touched. Knew what would make her shiver and kiss him harder. No one knew her like Julian did. Her eyes fluttered open, her vision hazy with desire. She started--Julian was looking at her, his own eyes open, and the expression in them was cool and thoughtful. It was like a bucket of cold water dashed in her face; she almost gasped. I need you not to be angry, he'd said. His hands were still curved around the backs of her thighs, holding her against him. Against his mouth, she whispered, "You're not really sorry, are you?" His eyes shuttered: She knew that look. He was thinking of the right thing to say. Not the true thing, but the best thing: the most clever and efficacious thing. The thing that would get him what he wanted and needed. She had always been proud of him for his cleverness; adored and understood the necessity of it. It was David's slingshot; it was Julian's only small defense against a massive world arrayed against him and his family. It was the only way he knew of protecting what he loved. But without love as the driving force behind everything he did, what would he be capable of? A Julian without feelings was a Julian who could and would manipulate anyone. Even her. He sank back on his heels, his hands falling to his sides, his expression still indecipherable. Before he could speak, the sound of someone entering the room echoed from downstairs. They scrambled off the bed in alarm. A few seconds later they were standing, in some disarray, on the steps leading down to the main room. Nene was there, a key in her hand, looking up at them. She wore the uniform of a Seelie Court page. When she caught sight of them, her pale eyebrows raised. "What is it humans say? Is this a bad time?" "It's fine," said Julian. His expression had gone back to normal, as if nothing much had happened. Emma didn't know what her own face looked like, but she knew how she felt: as if a gaping hole had been punched through the center of her. "I am glad to hear that," Nene said, stalking to the center of the room and turning to face them. "Because we must speak now. Quickly, come downstairs. The Queen has betrayed you, and there is little time to act." Tavvy was finally asleep, clutching a book, his face still stained with recent tears. Mark was kneeling, tousling his soft hair. Helen felt her heart aching-- with love for Tavvy, with worry, with missing Julian, who would have been able to calm Tavvy's fears in minutes, not the hours it was taking Helen. As Mark drew a blanket over his smallest brother, Helen got up to open the windows and let some fresh air into the room. She hadn't heard from Julian or Emma since they'd left them behind in Alicante, though Jia swore up and down to Aline that they were all right. And yet Helen had rarely felt so far from her family. Even on Wrangel Island, where she had felt cut off from the world, she had trusted that Julian was taking care of them--that they were as happy as they could be--and the images of them, happy, in her mind had sustained her. The reality of them here was a shock. Without Julian, they were looking to her, and she had no idea for what. Tavvy cried when she touched him. Dru glared at her. Ty barely seemed to know she was there. And Mark... "I should never have let them separate us," Helen said. "In Idris. When they wanted to keep Jules and Emma behind, I shouldn't have let them do it." "The Clave forced it," said Mark, rising to his feet. "You didn't have a choice." "We always have choices," said Helen. "You can't blame yourself. It's very hard to fight Julian when he's being stubborn. He has a very strong will. And he wanted to stay." "Do you really think so?" "I think he didn't want to come back with us. He was acting strangely before we left Idris, don't you think?" "It's hard to say." Helen shut the window. "Julian has always been able to make sacrifices that were difficult and hide the pain it caused him." "Yes," Mark said, "but even when he was hiding things, he was loving, not cold. Before we left he was cold." He spoke simply, without any doubt. He glanced at Tavvy again and rose to his feet. "I have to get back to Kieran. He is hurt, and Tavvy is settled." Helen nodded. "I will go with you." The corridors of the Institute were dark and quiet. Somewhere down the hall, Aline was sleeping. Helen let herself think for a moment of how much she wanted to crawl back into bed with her wife, curl up to Aline's warmth and forget everything else. "Perhaps we could try a Familias rune," said Helen. "Something that would lead us to Julian." Mark looked puzzled. "You know that will not work over the border with Faerie. And Julian would need to be wearing one too." "Of course." Helen felt as she had years ago, when Eleanor Blackthorn had died, as if she had frozen inside and it was difficult to think. "I--I know that." Mark gave her a worried look as they entered the spare bedroom where they had put Kieran. The room was dim, and Cristina was sitting in a chair beside the bed, holding Kieran's hand; Kieran was very still under the blanket, though his chest rose and fell with the swift, regular breathing normal in faeries. Helen had known only a little about Kieran, just what Mark had told her in the few quick conversations they'd had since he'd returned from Faerie, until she'd reached Idris; she and Mark had stayed up talking in the canal house after retrieving Tavvy, and she'd heard the whole story then. She knew how complicated Mark's feelings for Kieran were, though in the moment, as Mark gazed at the other boy worriedly, she might have guessed they were simpler. But nothing ever was simpler, was it? Helen caught Mark's quick glance at her between his lashes as he sat down beside Cristina: worry, concern--for Kieran, for Emma and Julian, for all of them. There was plenty of worry to go around. "I know you're going to want to go after Julian," said Helen. "To Faerie. Please don't do anything foolish, Mark." Mark's eyes burned in the darkness. Blue and gold, sea and sunlight. "I will do what I need to do to rescue Julian and Emma. I will rejoin the Hunt if I must." "Mark!" Helen was appalled. "You would never!" "I would do what I needed to do," he said again, and in his voice she heard not the smaller brother she had raised but the boy who had come back from the Wild Hunt an adult. "I know you lived with the Hunt for years and know things that I don't," said Helen. "But I have been in touch with our aunt Nene, and I know things you don't. I know how you and Julian and the others are thought of in Faerie --not as children but as fearsome enemies. You fought the Riders of Mannan. You shamed the Unseelie King in his own Court, and Emma slew Fal, who is almost like a god to the fey folk. Though you will find some friends in Faerie, you will find many, many foes." "That's always been true," Mark said. "You don't understand," said Helen in a harsh whisper. "Outside of Idris, every entrance to Faerie is guarded now, and has been since the disaster in the Council Hall. The Fair Folk know that the Nephilim hold them to blame. Even if you took the moon's road, the phouka who guards it would report your entry immediately, and you would be greeted with swords on the other side." "What do you propose, then?" Mark demanded. "Leaving our brother and Emma in Faerie to die and rot? I have been abandoned in Faerie, I know how it feels. I will never let that happen to Emma and Julian!" "No. I propose that I go after them. I am not an enemy in Faerie. I will go straight to Nene. She will help me." Mark sprang to his feet. "You cannot go. The children need you here. Someone needs to take care of them." "Aline can take care of them. She's already doing a better job than I am. The children don't even like me, Mark." "They may not like you but they love you," Mark said furiously, "and I love you, and I will not lose another sibling to Faerie!" Helen straightened up--though she was nowhere near as tall as her brother, which unnerved her now--and glared at Mark. "Neither will I." "I might have a solution," Cristina said. "There is an heirloom of the Rosales family. We call it the Eternidad, to mean a time that has no beginning or end, like time in Faerie. It will allow us to enter Faerie undetected." "Will you let me take it?" said Mark. "I do not have it quite yet--and only a Rosales may properly use it, so I will go-" "Then I will go with you," said Kieran, who had propped himself up on his elbows. His hair was mussed and there were shadows under his eyes. "You're awake?" said Mark. "I've been awake for a while," Kieran admitted. "But I pretended to be asleep because it was awkward." "Hmm," said Helen. "I think this is what Aline means by radical honesty." "Cristina cannot journey into Faerie alone," said Kieran stubbornly. "It is too dangerous." "I agree," said Mark. He turned to Helen. "I will go with Cristina and Kieran. We work best as a team, the three of us." Helen hesitated. How could she let them go, into such danger? And yet that was what Shadowhunters did, wasn't it? Rush into danger? She wished desperately she could talk to her own mother. Perhaps the better question was, how could she stop them, when Mark and Kieran would be better at navigating Faerie than anyone else? To send Cristina alone would be like sending her into destruction; to send them all meant she might lose Mark as well as Julian. But not to let them go meant to abandon Julian in Faerie. "Please, Helen," Mark said. "My brother went to Faerie to save me. I must be able to do the same for him. I have been a prisoner before. Do not make me a prisoner again." Helen felt her muscles sag. He was right. She sat down on the bed before she could start crying. "When would you be leaving?" "As soon as Jaime gets here with the heirloom," said Cristina. "It's been nearly an hour since I summoned him with a fire-message, but I don't know how long it will take him to arrive." "Jaime Rosales?" said Mark and Kieran at the same time. Helen glanced between them. They both looked surprised and a little watchful, as if jealous. She dismissed the thought. She was losing her mind, probably because of the strain. "Oh, Mark," she said. In times of strain, the cadence of her voice, like his, slipped into an ancestral faerie formality. "I cannot bear to let you go, but I suppose I must." Mark's eyes softened. "Helen. I am sorry. I promise to come back to you safely, and to bring Julian and Emma back safely as well." Before Helen pointed out that this wasn't a promise he could truly make, Kieran cleared his throat. The sound was very ordinary and human and nearly made Helen smile despite herself. "I would that I had ever had a sibling who loved me as much as you love each other," he said, sounding very much like a prince of Faerie. The semblance was quickly dispelled, though, when he cleared his throat again and said, "In the meantime, Helen, I must ask you to remove yourself from my leg. You are sitting on it and it is becoming quite painful." "Some monsters are human," said Gwyn. They were in Diana's rooms on Flintlock Street. She lay crosswise on her bed, her head in Gwyn's lap as he stroked her hair. "Horace Dearborn is one of them." Diana brushed her hand along the wool of Gwyn's tunic. She liked seeing him like this--without his helmet or mail, just a man in a worn tunic and scuffed boots. A man with pointed ears and two-colored eyes, but Diana had stopped seeing those as odd. They were just part of Gwyn. "I believe there are good people in the Council," Diana said. "They are frightened. Of Horace as well as his dire predictions. He has seized a great deal of power in a short time." "He has made Idris unsafe," said Gwyn. "I wish you to leave Alicante, Diana." She sat up in surprise. "Leave Alicante?" "I have seen a great deal of history," said Gwyn. "Terrible laws are usually passed before they are repealed after much suffering. Small-mindedness and fear have a way of winning out. You have told me Horace and his daughter do not like you." "No," said Diana. "Though I don't know why--" "They fear your influence," said Gwyn. "They know others listen to you. You are very persuasive, Diana, and startlingly wise." She made a face at him. "Flatterer." "I am not flattering you." He stood up. "I am afraid for you. Horace Dearborn may not be a dictator yet, but he yearns to be one. His first move will to be to eliminate all who stand against him. He will move to extinguish the brightest lights first, those who illuminate the pathway for others." Diana shivered. She could hear the hooves of his horse pacing back and forth across her roof. "You are bitter, Gwyn." "It is possible I do not always see the best in people," he said, "as I hunt down the souls of slain warriors on the battlefield." She raised her eyebrows. "Are you making a joke?" "No." He looked puzzled. "I meant what I said. Diana, let me take you from here. We would be safe in Faerie. At night the stars are a thousand colors and during the day the fields are full of roses." "I cannot, Gwyn. I cannot abandon this fight." He sat back down on the bed, hanging his shaggy head in weariness. "Diana..." It was strange after so long to feel the desire to be close to someone, physically as well as emotionally. "Did you not tell me that the first time you saw me, you cared for me because I was so brave? You would now like me to be a coward?" He looked at her, emotion naked on his lined face. "It is different now." "Why would it be different?" He curved his big hands around her waist. "Because I know that I love you." Her heart gave a strong flutter inside her chest. She had not expected such words from anyone, had considered it a price she would pay for being transgender and Nephilim. She had certainly never expected to hear it from someone like Gwyn: who knew all there was to know about her, who could not lie, a prince of wild magic. "Gwyn," she said, and cupped his face in her hands, bending to kiss him. He leaned back, gently drawing her with him until they lay upon the bed, her heart beating fast against the roughness of his tunic. He curved over her, his bulk casting a shadow across her body, and in that shadow she closed her eyes and moved with the movements of his gentle kisses and touches as they turned sweeter and sharper, until they reached together a place where fear was gone, where there was only the gentle alliance of souls who had left loneliness behind. Helen had gone to tell Aline what was going on; Mark couldn't guess how late it was, but he could no longer see moonlight through the window. He was sitting on the mattress next to Kieran, and Cristina had curled herself into the chair beside the bed. He avoided meeting her eyes. He knew he had done nothing wrong by kissing her, or she by kissing him. He remembered the last time he had spoken to Kieran alone, in the London Sanctuary. How Kieran had touched the elf-bolt that hung around Mark's neck. It had become a symbol, of sorts, of the two of them. What Kieran had said next still rang in his ears: We will be done with each other. He didn't know if he could explain what he felt to Kieran, or even to Cristina. He knew only that he did not feel done: not with Kieran, nor with Cristina should Kieran choose to return to him. "Do you feel any better, Kieran?" he said softly. "Yes--Cristina is a very good nurse." Cristina rolled her eyes. "I put on a bandage. Don't exaggerate my talents." Kieran gazed sadly down at his bandaged arm. "I do feel a bit odd with my sleeve missing." Mark couldn't help smiling. "It's very stylish. Big with mundanes, the one- sleeve look." Kieran's eyes widened. "Is it?" Both Mark and Cristina giggled. Kieran frowned. "You should not mock me." "Everyone gets mocked," Cristina said teasingly. "That's what friends do." Kieran's face lit up at that, so much so that Mark felt the painful urge to hug him. Princes of Faerie didn't have friends, he guessed; he and Kieran had never really talked about it. There was a time that the two of them had been friends, but love and pain had transmuted that in a way Mark now knew wasn't inevitable. There were people who fell in love but stayed friends-- Magnus and Alec, or Clary and Jace, or Helen and Aline. Kieran's smile had vanished. He moved restlessly under the covers. "There is something I need to tell you both. To explain." Cristina looked worried. "Not if you don't want to--" "It is about the Scholomance," Kieran said, and they both fell silent. They listened while Kieran told them of the Hollow Place. Mark tended to lose himself in other people's stories. He had always been like that, since he was a child, and he remembered how much he had loved Kieran telling him stories when they were in the Hunt--how he had gone to sleep with Kieran's fingers in his hair and Kieran's voice in his ears, telling him tales of Bloduwedd, the princess made of flowers, and of the black cauldron that raised the dead, and of the battle between Gwyn ap Nudd and Herne the Hunter, that had shaken down the trees. Cristina never lost herself in retellings in the same way, Mark thought; she was entirely present, her expression darkening and her eyes widening with horror as Kieran told them of the Cohort, the fight by the pool, the way Diego had saved him, and how he had escaped from the library. "They are horrible," Cristina said, almost before Kieran had finished speaking. "Horrible. That they would go that far--!" "We must check in on Diego and the others," said Mark, though Diego Rocio Rosales was one of his least favorite people. "See if they're all right." "I will write to Diego," Cristina said. "Kieran, I am so sorry. I thought you would be safe at the Scholomance." "You could not have known," said Kieran. "While I was at the Scholomance, I chided Diego for not planning for the future, but this is not a future anyone could imagine." "Kieran's right. It's not your fault," said Mark. "The Cohort is out of control. I'd guess it was one of them who followed Emma and Julian into Faerie." Kieran shoved his blankets off with a harsh, sudden gesture. "I owe it to Emma and Julian to go after them. I understand that now. I regretted what I had done even before the water of the pool touched me. But I was never able to testify. I was never able to earn their forgiveness or make up for what I did." "Emma has forgiven you," Cristina said. Kieran did not look convinced. When he spoke, it was haltingly. "I want to show you something." When neither Mark nor Cristina moved, he turned around, kneeling on the bed, and pulled up his shirt, baring his back. Mark heard Cristina suck in her breath as Kieran's skin was revealed. It was covered in whip marks. They looked newly healed, as if a few weeks old, no longer bleeding but still scarlet. Mark dry-swallowed. He knew every mark and scar on Kieran's skin. These were new. "The Cohort whipped you?" he whispered. "No," said Kieran. He let his shirt fall, though he didn't move from where he was, facing the wall behind the bed. "These marks appeared on my back when the water of the pool touched me. They are Emma's. I bear them now as a reminder of the agony she would not have been caused if not for me. When the pool water touched me, I felt her fear and pain. How can she forgive me for that?" Cristina rose to her feet. Her brown eyes glimmered with distress; she touched her hand lightly to Kieran's back. "Kieran," she said. "As we all have an infinite capacity to make mistakes, we all have an infinite capacity for forgiveness. Emma bears these scars cheerfully because to her, they are a mark of valor. Let them be the same to you. You are a prince of Faerie. I have seen you be as brave as anyone I have known. Sometimes the bravest thing we can do is confront our own failings." "You are a prince of Faerie." Kieran smiled a little, though it was crooked. "Someone else said that to me tonight." "To realize that you have made mistakes and hope to correct them is all anyone can hope to do," said Mark. "Sometimes we may have the best intentions--you were trying to save my life when you went to Gwyn and Iarlath--and the results are terrible. We all had the best intentions when we went to the Council meeting, and now Livvy is dead and Alicante is in the hands of the Cohort." Wincing, Kieran turned to face them both. "I swear to you," he said. "I will fight to my last breath to help you save the ones you love." Cristina smiled, clearly touched. "Let's just focus on Emma and Julian right now," she said. "We will be grateful to have you with us in Faerie tomorrow." Mark reached behind his neck and untied his elf-bolt necklace. "I want you to wear this, Kieran. You must never be defenseless again." Kieran didn't reach for the elf-bolt. "I gave it to you because I wished you to have it." "And now I want you to have it," said Mark. "There are many who seek to harm you, here and in Faerie. I want to be certain you will always have a weapon close to hand." Kieran slowly reached out and caught the necklace from Mark's hand. "I will wear it then, if it pleases you." Cristina gave Mark an unreadable look as Kieran looped the necklace over his head. There was something approving in her expression, as though she were glad of Mark's generosity. Kieran ran his hands through his hair. It slipped through his fingers in ink-blue locks. "Exhaustion claims me," he said. "I am sorry." In the Hunt, Mark would have wrapped his arms around Kieran and held him. They would have been cushions for each other's bodies against the hard ground. "Would you like us to make you a bed of blankets on the floor?" Mark offered. Kieran looked up, his eyes like shining polished mirrors: one black, one silver. "I think I could sleep in the bed if you stayed with me." Cristina turned bright red. "All right," she said. "I'll say good night then "No," Kieran said quickly. "I mean both of you. I want both of you to stay with me." Mark and Cristina exchanged a look. It was the first time, Mark thought, that he had really looked at Cristina since they'd come back from the Vasquez Rocks: He'd felt too awkward, too ashamed of his own confusion. Now he realized she looked just as flushed and puzzled as he did. Kieran's shoulders sagged slightly. "If you do not want to, I will understand." It was Cristina who kicked off her shoes and climbed into the bed beside Kieran. She was still wearing her jeans and tank top, one strap torn by a Harpyia demon. Mark got into the bed on the other side of Kieran, pillowing his head on his hand. They lay there for long moments in silence. The warmth from Kieran's body was familiar--so familiar it was hard not to curl up against him. To pull the blankets up over them, to forget everything in the darkness. But Cristina was there, and her presence seemed to change the makeup of the atoms in the air, the chemical balance between Kieran and Mark. It was no longer possible to fall into forgetting. This moment was now, and Mark was sharply aware of Kieran's nearness in a way he had not been since they first met, as if the clock had been rewound on their relationship. And he was aware of Cristina as well, no less sharply. Awkward, shy wanting anchored him in place. He glanced over at her; he could see the gleam of her dark hair against the pillow, one bare brown shoulder. Heat muddled Mark's head, his thoughts. "I shall dream of the Borderlands," said Kieran. "Adaon had a cottage there, in lands neither Seelie nor Unseelie. A little stone place, with roses climbing the walls. In the Hunt, when I was hungry and cold, I would say to myself, none of this is real, and try to make the cottage real in my mind. I would pretend I was there, looking out the windows, and not where I truly was. It became more real to me than reality was." Cristina touched his cheek lightly. "Ya duermete," she murmured. "Go to sleep, you silly person." Mark couldn't help smiling. "Has anyone else ever called you a silly person before, Prince Kieran?" he whispered as Cristina closed her eyes to sleep. But Kieran was looking over at Cristina, his dark hair tangled, his eyes soft with weariness and something else. "I think she is the most beautiful girl I have ever seen," he said in a ruminative voice. "I have always thought the same," said Mark. "You are different with each other now," Kieran said. "It is clear to see. You were together while I was away." It was not something Mark would have ever lied about. "That is true." Kieran reached out, touched Mark's hair. A light touch, sending a shower of sparks down through Mark's body. Kieran's mouth was a sleepy, soft curve. "I hoped you would be," he said. "The thought gave me comfort while I was in the Scholomance." Kieran curled into the blankets and closed his eyes, but Mark remained awake for a long time, staring into the dark. <|title|>Chapter 12: Beneath the Sky <|startofchapter|>Mark, Kieran, and Cristina were in the library, packing for their departure to Faerie. Everyone else was there too; at least, everyone except Dru, who had taken Tavvy down to the beach to keep him distracted. Kit doubted she'd actually want to watch them preparing to leave anyway. Kit felt bad for her--her eyes had still been red when she'd set out with Tavvy and a duffel bag full of toys and sand buckets, though she'd kept her voice cheerful when promising Tavvy she'd help him make a sandcastle city. But he felt worse for Ty. It wasn't just that Mark was going back to Faerie. That was bad enough. It was why he was going. When Mark and Helen had explained that Emma and Julian were on a mission in the Undying Lands and needed assistance, Kit had tensed all over with panic. Ty didn't just love Julian, he needed him the way kids needed their parents. On top of what had happened to Livvy, how would he deal with it? They had been in the kitchen, in the early morning, the room flooded with sun. The table still scattered with the remains of breakfast, Dru teasing Tavvy by making mini seraph blades out of pieces of toast and dunking them in jelly. Then Aline had gotten up at some unspoken signal from Helen and taken Tavvy out of the room, promising to show him her favorite illustrated book in the library. And then Helen had explained what was going on. Mark and Cristina had interjected occasionally, but Kieran had stood quietly by the window while they talked, his dark blue hair threaded through with white. When they were done, Drusilla was crying quietly. Ty sat in absolute silence, but Kit could see that his right hand, under the table, was moving like a pianist's, his fingers stretching and curling. He wondered if Ty had forgotten his hand toys--the Internet called them stim toys or stimming objects. He glanced around for something he could hand to Ty, as Mark leaned forward and lightly touched his younger brother's face. "Tiberius," he said. "And Drusilla. I know this must be hard for you, but we will bring Julian back and then we will all be together again." Dru smiled faintly at him. Don't say that, Kit thought. What if you can't bring him back? What if he dies there in Faerie? Making promises you can't keep is worse than making no promises at all. Ty stood up and walked out of the kitchen without a word. Kit started to push his chair back, and hesitated. Maybe he shouldn't go after Ty. Maybe Ty wouldn't want him to. When he glanced up, he saw that Mark and Cristina were both looking at him--in fact, Kieran was too, with his eerie light-and- dark eyes. "You should go after him," Mark said. "You're the one he wants." Kit blinked and stood up. Cristina gave him an encouraging smile as he headed out of the kitchen. Ty hadn't gone far; he was in the corridor just outside, leaning back against the wall. His eyes were closed, his lips moving silently. He had a retractable pen in his right hand and was clicking the top of it, over and over, snap snap. "Are you okay?" Kit said, hovering awkwardly just outside the kitchen door. Ty opened his eyes and looked toward Kit. "Yeah." Kit didn't say anything. It seemed desperately unlikely to him in that moment that Ty was actually okay. It was too much. Losing Livvy, and now the fear of losing Julian and Mark--and Emma and Cristina. He felt as if he were witnessing the burning away of the Blackthorn family. As if the destruction that Malcolm had wished on them was happening now, even after Malcolm was gone, and they would all be lost, one by one. But not Ty. Please don't do this to Ty. He's good, he deserves better. Not that people always got what they deserved, Kit knew. It was one of the first things he'd ever learned about life. "I am okay," Ty said, as if he could hear Kit's doubts. "I have to be okay for Livvy. And if anything happens to Mark or to Julian or Emma in Faerie, that's okay too, because we can bring them all back. We have the Black Volume. We can bring them back." Kit stared; his mind felt full of white noise and shock. Ty didn't mean it, he told himself. He couldn't mean it. The kitchen door opened behind him and Mark came out; he said something Kit didn't hear and then he went to Ty and put his arms around him. Ty hugged him back, his forehead against Mark's shoulder. He was still gripping the pen. Kit saw again the bruises on Ty's hands and wrists, the ones he must have gotten climbing the pyre in Idris. They stood out so starkly against Ty's pale skin that Kit imagined he could feel the pain of them himself. And now he and Kit were sitting on one of the library tables, watching the others pack. Kit couldn't shake off his feeling of strangeness. The last time Mark and Cristina had disappeared to Faerie, there'd been no warning and no preparation. They'd disappeared overnight with Emma and Julian. This time not only did everyone know about it, they were all pitching in to help as if it were a camping trip. Mark, Cristina, and Kieran were dressed in the least Shadowhuntery clothes they'd been able to find. Cristina wore a knee-length white dress, and Mark and Kieran had on shirts and trousers that Aline had attacked with a pair of scissors to make them look ragged and uneven. They wore soft shoes, without metal buckles, and Cristina's hair was tied back with ribbon. Helen had packed them plastic containers of food--granola bars, apples, things that wouldn't go bad. There were blankets and bandages and even antiseptic spray, since their steles wouldn't work in Faerie. And of course there were all the weapons: Cristina's balisong, dozens of daggers and throwing knives wrapped in soft leather, a crossbow for Mark, and even a bronze shortsword for Kieran, who had buckled it on at his waist with the delighted look of someone who missed being armed. "Maybe we shouldn't pack the food now," Helen said nervously, taking a Tupperware container she'd just packed back out of the bag. "Maybe we should wait until they're leaving." Aline sighed. She'd been flipping back and forth all day between looking as if she was going to cry and looking as if she was going to yell at Mark, Kieran, and Cristina for making Helen cry. "Most of that food will keep. That's the point." "We can only wait so long to depart," Mark said. "This is urgent." He flicked his eyes toward Kit and Ty; Kit turned and realized that Ty had disappeared. No one had left the library, though, so he had to be somewhere in the room. "Jaime will come as quickly as he can," Cristina said. She was deftly knotting up a roll of throwing knives. "If he isn't here by tonight, we may need to take the moon's road," said Kieran. "And risk being reported to the Courts?" Helen said. "It's too dangerous. No. You can't go anywhere until Jaime Rosales shows up." "He'll come," Cristina said, shoving the roll of knives into her pack with some force. "I trust him." "If he doesn't, it's too risky. Especially considering where you're going." Kit slid off the table as Kieran protested; no one was paying attention to him anyway. He walked alongside the rows of bookshelves until he saw Ty, between two stacks of books, his head bent over a piece of paper. He stopped for a moment and just looked at him. He was aware of Kieran watching him from across the room and wondered why; they'd shared an interesting conversation once, on the roof of the London Institute, where they realized they were both outsiders where the Blackthorn family was concerned. Kit wasn't sure that was true anymore, though. Either for him or for Kieran. And they hadn't spoken since. He slipped between the rows of books. He couldn't help noticing they were somewhat ironically in the sea creatures and things aquatic section. "Ty," he said. "Ty, what's going on?" Perhaps Ty had finally snapped; perhaps the weight of grief and loss and fear had gotten to him. There was something incredibly vulnerable about the thinness of his fingers, the flush on his cheeks when he glanced up. Maybe-- Kit realized Ty's eyes were shining, and not with tears. Ty held up the paper in his hands; it was a letter. "It's from Hypatia Vex," he said in a low voice. "She's agreed to help us with the Shadow Market." "What's going on?" Julian jogged down the curving steps from Fergus's bower, twisting his shirt around as he went. Emma followed more cautiously, having stopped to throw on clothes and grab her pack. Nene stood in the center of Fergus's room, wearing a long green dress and a heavy green cloak over it trimmed in green and blue feathers. She flicked the hood back with impatient fingers and faced them. "The Queen has betrayed you," she said again. "Even now she prepares to leave for the Unseelie Court with the Black Volume." Emma started. "The Unseelie Court? But why?" Nene gave them a hard glance. "You understand I am betraying my Court and my lady by speaking to you like this," she said. "If I am found out, it will go worse for me than you can imagine." "You came to us," Julian pointed out. He was himself again, calm, measured. Maybe that was what being without your emotions meant; maybe you never really lost yourself in anything. "We didn't come to you." "I came because I owe the Blackthorns," she said. "Because of the wrong my sister Celithe did to Arthur in torturing him, in shattering his mind with magic so that he might never be cured. And because I do not want the Unseelie King to have the Black Volume of the Dead." "But he might well already have it," Emma said. "He took Annabel--and Annabel has the book." "We have spies in the Court, of course," said Nene. "He does have Annabel. But she will not give him the Black Volume, and because she knows his true name, he cannot make her." "So why is she staying in the Court?" Julian demanded. "That I cannot tell you," Nene said. "Only what the Queen is doing. She does not consider any promises she made to you binding, because the book you brought her is a copy and not the original." "That's a ridiculous technicality," said Emma. "Faerie turns on ridiculous technicalities," said Nene. "The Queen will do what the Queen wishes to do. That is the nature of Seelie." "But why does she want to give the book to the King? She hates the King! She said she wanted to keep it out of his hands--" Emma started. "She did say she wanted to keep it out of his hands," Julian said. He was pale. "But she didn't say she wouldn't give it to him anyway." "No," said Nene. "She did not." The Queen's words echoed in Emma's head. The Black Volume is more than necromancy. It contains spells that will allow me to retrieve the captive from the Unseelie Court. "She's going to trade the book for the captive in the Unseelie Court, whoever he is," said Emma. "Or she." "He," said Nene. "It is her son who is captive." Julian sucked in a breath. "Why didn't you tell us that before? If I'd known that--" Nene glared at him. "Betraying my Queen is no light thing to me! If it were not for my sister's children, I would never--" "I expected the Queen to betray us," Julian said. "But not for her to do it so soon, or like this. She must be desperate." "Because she's trying to save her child," said Emma. "How old is he?" "I do not know," Nene said. "Ash was always hidden from us. I would not recognize him if I saw him." "The King can't have the book. The Queen said that he was blighting the Lands of Faerie with dark magic and filling the rivers with blood. Imagine what he'd do if he had the Black Volume." "If we can believe the Queen," said Julian. "It is the truth as far as I know it," said Nene. "Since the Cold Peace, the Land of Unseelie has been bleeding evil. It is said that a great weapon resides there, something that but needs the spells of the Black Volume to bring its powers to life. It is something that could wipe out all angelic magic." "We have to get to the Unseelie Court," said Emma. "We have to stop the Queen." Julian's eyes glittered. Emma knew what he was thinking. That in the Unseelie Court was Annabel, and with Annabel lay revenge for Livvy's death. "I agree with you," he said. "We can follow the Queen--" "You cannot travel as fast as a procession of fey horses," she said. "Not even Nephilim can run like that. You must intercept the Queen before she reaches the tower." "The tower?" echoed Emma. "It is the one permanent stronghold of Unseelie, the place they retreat when under siege. Its fortifications are unmatched in Faerie; none can scale the walls or brave the thorns, and the throne room at the top of the tower is guarded by redcaps. You must join the procession so that you might reach the Queen before she is inside the tower, and it is too late." "Join the procession? We'll be noticed!" Emma exclaimed, but Nene was already seizing up a hooded cloak that had been hung by the door and tossing it to Julian. "Wear this," she said. "It's Fergus's. Pull up the hood. No one will be looking that closely." She drew off her own cloak and handed it to Emma. "And you will be disguised as me." She eyed Emma critically as Emma put the cloak on, fastening it at the throat. "At least the blond hair is right." Julian had disappeared up the steps; when he returned, he was carrying his weapons belt and Emma's. Fergus's cloak--black, with raven wings shimmering like oil on the breast and hood--covered him completely. "We're not going without these." "Keep them beneath your cloaks," Nene said. "They are clearly of Shadowhunter make." She looked them up and down. "As are you. Ah well. We will do the best we can." "What if we need to flee from Faerie?" said Emma. "What if we get the Black Volume and need to go back to Idris?" Nene hesitated. "You've already betrayed faerie secrets," said Julian. "What's one more?" Nene narrowed her eyes. "You have changed," she said. "I can only hope it is grief." Grief. Everyone in Alicante had thought it was grief that had altered Julian's behavior, his reactions. Emma had thought it herself at first. "Make your way to Branwen's Falls," said Nene. "Beneath the falls you will find a path back to Alicante. And if you ever speak of this secret to another soul besides each other, my curse will be on your heads." She pushed open the door, and they crept out into the corridor. Tavvy had never been satisfied with sandcastles. They bored him. He liked to build what he called sand cities--rows of square sand structures shaped by empty milk cartons turned upside down. They were houses, stores, and schools, complete with signs made with the torn-off fronts of matchbooks. Dru scuffed her way up and down the beach barefoot, helping Tavvy find sticks, rocks, and seashells that would become lampposts, walls, and bus stops. Sometimes she'd find a piece of sea glass, red or green or blue, and tuck it into the pocket of her overalls. The beach was empty except for her and Tavvy. She was watching him out of the corner of her eye as he knelt on the wet sand, shaping a massive wall to surround his city--after what had happened with Malcolm, she didn't plan to take her gaze off him again. But most of her mind was filled up with thoughts of Mark and Emma and Julian. Mark was going to Faerie, and he was going because Julian and Emma were in trouble. Mark hadn't said, but Dru was pretty sure it was bad trouble. Nothing good came from going to Faerie, and Mark and Cristina and Kieran wouldn't be running to save them if they thought they'd be all right on their own. People are leaving me one by one, she thought. First Livvy, then Julian and Emma, now Mark. She stopped to glance out at the ocean: sparkling blue waves rolling over and under. Once she'd watched that ocean thinking that somewhere across it was Helen on her island, protecting the wards of the world. She had remembered her sister's laugh, her blond hair, and imagined her as a sort of Valkyrie, holding up a spear at the entrance to the world, not letting the demons pass her by. These days, she could tell that every time Helen looked at her she was sad that Dru wasn't more friendly, more open to sisterly bonding. Dru knew it was true, but she couldn't change it. Didn't Helen understand that if Dru let herself love her older sister, Helen would just be another person for Dru to lose? "Someone's coming," Tavvy said. He was looking down the beach, his blue-green eyes squinted against the sun. Dru turned and stared. A boy was walking down the empty beach, consulting a small object in his hand as he went. A tall, rail-thin boy with a mop of black hair, brown skin that shone in the sun, and bare, runed arms. She dropped the seashells she was holding. "Jaime!" she screamed. "Jaime!" He glanced up and seemed to see her for the first time. A wide grin spread across his face and he started to run, loping across the sand until he reached her. He grabbed her up in a hug, whooping and spinning her around. She still remembered the odd dream she'd had before Jaime left the London Institute, in which she'd been somewhere--it had felt like Faerie, but then how would she know what Faerie felt like? She'd dismissed it, but the faint memory came back now that he was here--along with other memories: of him sitting and watching movies with her, talking to her about her family, listening to her. "It's good to see you again, friend," he said, setting her down on the sand and ruffling her hair. "It's very good." He looked tired, inexpressibly tired, as if he hadn't hit the ground except for running since the last time she'd seen him. There were dark circles under his eyes. Tavvy was running over to see who he was, and Jaime was asking if she still had the knife he'd given her, and she couldn't help smiling, her first real smile since Livvy. He came back, Dru thought. Finally, someone didn't leave--they came back instead. They crept along the corridors with Nene, keeping to the shadows. Both Emma and Julian kept their hoods drawn up; Nene had tucked her hair under a cap and, in breeches and a loose shirt, looked like a page boy at first glance. "What about Fergus?" Emma said. Nene smiled grimly. "Fergus has been waylaid by a dryad of the sort he most admires. A young sapling." "Ouch," said Julian. "Splinters." Nene ignored him. "I've known Fergus a long time, I know all about his inclinations. He'll be busy for a good long time." They had reached a sloping hallway familiar to Emma. She could smell night air coming from one end of the corridor, the scent of leaves and sap and fall. She wondered if it was the same season in Faerie as it was at home. It felt later, as if autumn had already touched the Lands of Faerie with an early frost. The corridor ended abruptly, opening into a clearing full of grass and stars. Trees stood around in a tall circle, shaking down leaves of gold and russet on a crowd of faerie courtiers and their horses. The Queen herself sat sidesaddle on a white mare at the head of the procession. A white lace veil covered her face and her shoulders, and white gloves covered her hands. Her red hair streamed down her back. Her courtiers, in gold silk and bright velvet, rode behind her: most on horses, but some on massive, pad-pawed cats and narrow-eyed wolves the size of small cars. A green-skinned dryad with a mass of leaves for hair rode tucked into the branches of a walking tree. Emma couldn't help looking around herself in wonder. She was a Shadowhunter, used to magic; still, there was something so alien at the heart of the Courts of Faerie that it still made her marvel. Nene led them through the shadows to where her horse and Fergus's waited, already in the procession's line, between a sprite riding a winged toadstool and two faerie girls in russet dresses with identical black hair, who sat one in front of the other on a bay mare. Emma pulled herself up into the saddle of Nene's gray palfrey. Nene patted the horse's neck fondly. "Her name is Silvermane. Be kind to her. She knows her own way home." Emma nodded as Julian mounted Fergus's bay stallion. "What's his name?" he asked as the horse pawed the ground and snorted. "Widowmaker," said Nene. Julian snorted under his hood. "Does he make widows out of the people who ride him or people he takes a dislike to?" "Both," said Nene. She reached into her cloak and drew out two crystal vials, each looped on a golden chain. She handed one to Julian and the other to Emma. "Wear these around your throats," she said in a low voice. "And keep them close." Emma looped the chain obediently around her throat. The vial was about the size of her thumb. Pale gold liquid was visible inside it, glimmering as the vial moved. "What are these for?" "If you are in danger in the King's Court, break the top and drink the liquid," said Nene. "Is it poison?" Julian sounded curious as he fastened the chain around his throat. The vial fell against his chest. "No--it will make you invisible to Unseelie faeries, at least for a time. I don't know how long the magic lasts. I have never had cause to use it." A squawking goblin with a piece of parchment and a massive quill pen was running along the side of the procession, marking off names. He cast a quick glance at Emma and Julian. "Lady Nene, Lord Fergus," he said. "We are about to depart." "We?" said Julian in a bored voice. Emma blinked, astonished by how much he sounded like a faerie. "Are you accompanying us, goblin? Would you enjoy a holiday in the Court of Unseelie?" The goblin squinted. "Are you well, Lord Fergus? You sound different." "Perhaps because I pine for goblin heads to decorate my bower," said Julian. "Off with you." He aimed a kick at the goblin, who made a hissing sound of fright and skittered away from them, hurrying down the line. "Be careful what masks you wear, child," Nene said, "lest you lose your true face forever." "False or true, it is all the same," said Julian, and picked up the reins as the procession began to move forward into the night. Before Kit could answer Ty, a commotion in the library drew them out from behind the shelves. Dru had returned to the library and was hanging back by the door, looking shy but smiling. A good-looking dark-eyed boy who resembled a narrower version of Diego Rocio Rosales was hugging Cristina. Mark and Kieran were both looking at him with uneasy expressions. As soon as Cristina let him go, Helen strode over to shake his hand. "Welcome to the Los Angeles Institute, Jaime," she said. "Thanks so much for coming on such short notice." "Jaime Rocio Rosales," said Ty to Kit, under his breath. "I found him on the beach and brought him straight up," Dru said proudly. Helen looked puzzled. "But how did you recognize him?" Dru exchanged a look with Jaime, part panic and part resignation. "He stayed with me for a few days when we were at the London Institute," Dru said. Everyone looked astonished, though Kit wasn't exactly sure why. The relationships between different Shadowhunter families were endlessly confusing: some, like Emma, Jace, and Clary, were treated almost like Blackthorn family; some weren't. He had to hand it to Dru, though, for managing to conceal the fact she had someone in her room in London from everyone else. It indicated a talent for deception. Along with her lock-picking skills, she definitely had a criminal bent he admired. "You mean he was in your room?" Mark demanded incredulously. He turned to Jaime, who had backed up against one of the long tables. "She's only thirteen!" Jaime looked incredulous. "I thought she had to be at least sixteen--" Helen sucked in her breath. Mark handed his pack to Kieran, who took it, looking baffled. "Stay where you are, Jaime Rosales." "Why?" said Jaime suspiciously. Mark advanced. "So I can rain blows down upon you." Like an acrobat, Jaime flipped himself backward, landing squarely atop the table. He glared down at Mark. "I don't know what you think happened, but nothing did. Dru is my friend, whatever her age. That is all." Ty turned to whisper in Kit's ear. "I don't get it--why is Mark angry?" Kit thought about it. It was one of the great things about Ty, actually--he made you consider the threads of subconscious logic that wove beneath the surface of ordinary conversations. The suppositions and assumptions people made without ever considering why, the implications of certain words and gestures. Kit didn't think he'd take those things for granted again. "You know how knights in stories defend a lady's honor?" he whispered. "Mark thinks he has to defend Drusilla's honor." "That table is going to break," Ty said. He was right. The legs of the table Jaime was standing on were wobbling dangerously. Dru leaped in between Mark and Jaime, arms spread wide. "Stop," she said fiercely. "I didn't tell Jaime how old I was because he was my friend. He listened to me and he watched horror movies with me and he acted like what I said was important and I didn't want him to treat me like a little kid." "But you are only a child," Mark said. "He should not treat you as an adult." "He treated me like a friend," said Dru. "I might be young, but I'm not a liar." "She is telling you that you have to trust her, Mark," said Kieran. He rarely said much around the Blackthorns; Kit was surprised, but couldn't disagree. Cristina stepped around Mark and moved to stand next to Dru. They couldn't have looked more different--Cristina in her white dress, Dru in overalls and a black T-shirt--but they wore identical stubborn expressions. "Mark," said Cristina. "I understand you feel you have not been here to protect your family for so many years. But that does not mean mistrusting them now. Nor would Jaime hurt Dru." The door of the library opened; it was Aline. No one but Kit watched as she crossed the room and whispered in Helen's ear. No one but Kit saw Helen's expression change, her lips whiten. "Dru is like a little sister to me," said Jaime, and Dru winced almost imperceptibly. Mark turned to Dru. "I'm sorry, sister. I should have listened to you." He looked up at Jaime, and his eyes flashed. "I believe you, Jaime Rocio Rosales. But I can't speak for what Julian will do when he finds out." "You guys are really incentivizing me to let you use the Eternidad to get to Faerie," said Jaime. "Stop bickering." Helen's voice rang out. "Earlier I sent word to my aunt Nene in the Seelie Court. She just returned my message. She said that Emma and Julian were there--but they've gone. They just set forth from the Seelie Court to the Unseelie Court." Kieran's eyes darkened. Cristina said, "Why would they do that?" "I don't know," Helen said. "But it means that we have a specific location where we know they'll be." Kieran touched the sword at his waist. "I know a place along the road that leads between Seelie and Unseelie where we can waylay them. But once they pass it, we may be too late. If we are going to go, we should go now." Jaime leaped down off the table with the lightness of a cat. "I'll get the heirloom." He began to rummage through his pack. "Cristina, only you can use it, because whoever uses it must have Rosales blood." Cristina and Jaime exchanged a significant look, indecipherable to Kit. "You can use it to get to Faerie, and also back," said Jaime. "Your passage in and out of the Lands will be undetectable. But it cannot protect you while you are there." He handed something to Cristina; Kit could only catch a glimpse of it. It looked like smooth wood, twisted into an odd shape. Kieran and Mark were strapping their packs on. Dru had gone over to Helen, who looked as if she'd like to put an arm around her younger sister, but Dru wasn't standing close enough for that. Something about the sight of them made Kit put his hand on Ty's shoulder. He was aware of the warmth of the other boy's skin through his T- shirt. Ty glanced at him sideways. "You better go say good-bye, or good trip," Kit said awkwardly. Ty hesitated a moment, and then went, Kit's hand sliding off his shoulder as if Ty had never noticed it there. Kit hung back during the good-byes, the tearful hugs, the whispered promises, the ruffling of hair. Helen held fiercely to Mark as if she never wanted to let him go, while Aline went to get Tavvy, who was playing in his room. Jaime hung back too, though he did watch Kit out of the corner of his eye, with a curious look, as if to say, Who is that guy? When Aline came back, Tavvy dutifully hugged everyone who was leaving --even Kieran, who looked startled and touched. He dropped his hand to touch Tavvy's hair lightly. "Worry not, little one." And then it was time for Ty and Mark to say farewell, and Mark touched Ty lightly on each cheek, once--a faerie good-bye. "Don't die," Ty said. Mark's smile looked painful. "I won't." Helen reached for Ty, and the small group of remaining Blackthorns gathered as Cristina held the Eternidad against her chest. It was definitely a piece of polished wood, Kit saw now, twisted somehow into the infinity symbol--no beginning and no end. "Gather together, all of you who are going to Faerie," said Jaime. "You must be touching each other." Mark and Kieran each put a hand on one of Cristina's shoulders. She looked quite small between them. Mark rubbed the back of her neck with his thumb: a soothing, almost absent gesture; the intimacy of it startled Kit. Jaime seemed to notice it as well; his gaze sharpened. But all he said was, "You must tell the artifact where to take you. You don't want to let it choose." Kieran turned to Cristina. "We go to Bram's Crossroads." Cristina lowered her gaze, her hands brushing lightly over the artifact. "Take us to Bram's Crossroads," she said. Faerie magic was quiet, Kit thought. There was no noise, no tumult, no flashing warlock lights. In between one breath and another, Mark, Kieran, and Cristina simply disappeared. Another meeting, Diana thought. And an emergency one at that: She'd been woken early in the morning by a fire-message summoning her to a Council meeting at the Gard. Gwyn had tried to coax her back into bed, but Diana was too worried. Worried for Jia. Worried for Emma and Julian. She knew Horace was making an example out of them with this house arrest, but they were just children. How long was this punishment meant to last? And how long would Julian be all right separated from his siblings? She'd left Gwyn with a kiss and hurried to the Gard, where she'd discovered Shadowhunters from all over--not just the usual Alicante crowd--pouring into the Gard through doors guarded by Centurions. She'd barely gotten a seat toward the front, next to Kadir Safar of the New York Conclave. When the doors had been closed, they had all been left staring at a dais that was empty except for a single chair with a tall wooden back, and a black- draped table. The drapery looked as if it were covering something--lumpy-- that sent a chill up Diana's spine. She told herself it couldn't possibly be what it looked like. Perhaps it was a pile of weapons. As the Council slowly settled into their places, a silence fell over the room. Horace Dearborn, fully decked out in his Inquisitor robes, was striding onto the dais, followed by Manuel and Zara in Centurion garb, each carrying a long spear etched with the words primus pilus. "First spears," Kadir translated. Diana had met him before: an often silent man who had been Maryse's second-in-command for years, and still headed up the New York Conclave. He looked tired and tense, a sallowness to his dark skin that hadn't been there before. "It means they have been promoted to Centurions who personally guard the Inquisitor and Consul." "Speaking of the Consul," Diana whispered back, "where is Jia?" Her murmur caught, like a spark in dry tinder, and soon the whole Council was muttering. Horace held up a placating hand. "Greetings, Nephilim," he said. "Our Consul, Jia Penhallow, sends regards. She is at the Adamant Citadel, consulting with the Iron Sisters about the Mortal Sword. It will soon be reforged, allowing trials to begin again." The noise subsided to a mutter. "It is an unfortunate coincidence that both meetings had to be held at the same moment," Horace continued, "but time is of the essence. It will be difficult to have this meeting without Jia, but I know of her positions and will be representing them here." His voice echoed through the room. He must be using an Amplification rune, Diana thought. "The last time we met here we discussed stricter laws that would codify accountability among Downworlders," Horace said. "Our Consul, in her kindness and generosity, wished us to put off the decision to implement these laws--but these people do not respond to kindness." His face had gone red under his thinning blond hair. "They respond to strength! And we must make Shadowhunters strong again!" A murmur spread through the Hall. Diana looked around for Carmen, who had spoken so bravely at the last meeting, but could find her nowhere in the crowd. She whispered to Kadir, "What is this about? Why did he bring us here to rant at us?" Kadir looked grim. "The question is, what's he leading up to?" Diana studied the faces of Manuel and Zara but could read nothing on them except smugness on Zara's. Manuel was as blank as a piece of new paper. "With all respect for our Consul, I was willing to go along with the delay," said Horace, "but events have now transpired that make waiting impossible." A murmur of expectation ran through the room--what was he talking about? He turned to his daughter. "Zara, let them see the atrocity the Fair Folk have committed against us!" With a look of grim delight, Zara crossed the dais to the table and whipped the black sheet away as if she were a magician performing in front of a crowd. A moan of horror went through the crowd. Diana felt her own gorge rise. Beneath the sheet were the remains of Dane Larkspear, splayed out on the table like a corpse ready to be autopsied. His head was tilted back, his mouth open in a silent scream. His rib cage had been torn to shreds, bits of white bone and yellow tendon peeking through the grotesque slashes. His skin looked withered and ashen, as if he had been dead some time. Horace's voice rose to a shout. "You see before you a brave young man who was sent on a mission of peace to Faerie, and this is what they return to us. This savaged corpse!" A terrible scream rent the silence. A woman with Dane Larkspear's dark hair and bony face was on her feet, howling. Elena Larkspear, Diana realized. A bulky man whose features seemed to be collapsing in on themselves with shock and horror had her in his arms; as the crowd stared openly, he dragged her screaming from the room. Diana felt sick. She hadn't liked Dane Larkspear, but he was just a child, and his parents' grief was real. "This is how the family found out?" There was bitterness in Kadir's tone. "It makes for better theater. Dearborn has always been less a politician than a performer." Across the aisle, Lazio Balogh shot them both a dirty look. He wasn't an official member of the Cohort, as far as Diana knew, but he was definitely a sympathizer. "And savaged it was!" Zara cried, her eyes glittering. "Behold the bite marks--the work of kelpies! Perhaps even helped by vampires, or werewolves 55 "Stop it, Zara," Manuel muttered. No one seemed to have noticed Zara's ranting, though. There was too much chaos in the crowd. Shadowhunters were cursing and swearing in a dozen different languages. Diana felt a cold despair settle over her. "This is not all--more Downworlder crimes have come to light in just these past days," said Horace. "A group of brave Centurions, loyal to their Shadowhunter heritage, discovered an Unseelie prince hiding at the Scholomance." He turned to Zara and Manuel. "Bring forth the traitors!" "This is not how we do things," Diana whispered. "This is not how Shadowhunters comport themselves, nor how we hold our own accountable 55 She broke off before Kadir could reply. Zara and Manuel had disappeared into one of the corridors beside the dais; they returned with Timothy Rockford by their side. Between them marched a line of students familiar to Diana--Diego Rosales, Rayan Maduabuchi, and Divya Joshi. Their hands were bound behind them, their mouths closed with runes of Quietude, runes that usually only Silent Brothers bore. Diana's eyes met Diego's: She saw the raw fear behind them. "Runes of Quietude," said Kadir in disgust, as the Hall erupted into screams. "Imagine being treated like this, and silenced--unable to protest." Diana bolted to her feet. "What are you doing, Horace? These are just children! Shadowhunter children! It is our job to protect them!" Horace's amplified voice made his hiss of annoyance echo through the room. "Yes, they are our children, our hope for the future! And our sympathy toward Downworlders has made them easy prey for deceit. These misguided souls smuggled a faerie 'prince' out of the Scholomance after his vicious attack on another one of our most promising young minds." The room fell silent. Diana exchanged a bewildered look with Kadir. What was Horace talking about? Manuel's eyes flicked to the left. He was smirking. A second later Gladstone appeared, half-carrying a girl in a ragged dress, a Centurion cloak thrown over her shoulders. It was Samantha Larkspear. Her black hair hung down over her face in strings and her eyes darted back and forth like trapped insects. Her hands were crooked into claws at her sides: She held one out, batting it toward the audience as if she were swatting away flies. Diana felt as if she might throw up. Manuel stalked toward her, his hands looped carelessly behind his back. "Samantha Larkspear," he said. A groan rippled around the crowd as people realized that this was the sister of the dead and maimed boy on the table. "Tell us of Prince Kieran!" Samantha began to whip her head back and forth, her hair swinging. "No, no! Such terrible pain!" she moaned. "Don't make me think of Prince Kieran!" "That poor girl," Lazio Balogh announced loudly. "Traumatized by Downworlders." Diana could see Diego shaking his head, Rayan trying to speak, but no sound or words coming out. Divya merely stared stonily at Manuel, hatred clear in her every flicker of expression. "Perhaps you would like to talk to the prisoners," Manuel suggested to Samantha, his tone like an oily caress. "The ones who let Prince Kieran free?" Samantha shied away from Diego and the others, her face contorted. "No! Keep them away from me! Don't let them look at me!" Diana sank back in her seat. Whatever had happened to Samantha, she knew it was no fault of Kieran's or the others', but she could feel the mood of the crowd: stark horror. No one would want to hear a defense of them now. "My God, what's he going to do?" she whispered, half to herself. "What's Horace going to do to Diego and the others?" "Put them in jail," said Kadir bleakly. "Make an example of them. They cannot be tried now, while the Mortal Sword is broken. Horace will leave them there to inspire hatred and fear. A symbol to point to whenever his policies are questioned. Look what happened." On the dais, Samantha was sobbing. Manuel had taken her into his arms, as if to comfort her, but Diana could see the force with which he held the wailing girl. He was restraining her as the crowd roared for Horace to speak. Horace stepped forward, his amplified voice carrying over the din as Zara looked on with proud pleasure. "We cannot allow any more young Shadowhunters to suffer and die!" he yelled, and the crowd exploded with agreement. As if Diego and Divya and Rayan weren't young Shadowhunters. As if they weren't suffering. "We cannot allow our world to be taken from us," Horace shouted, as Manuel's fingers bit into Samantha's shoulders. "We must be strong enough to protect our children and our homeland. The time has come to put Nephilim first!" Horace raised his triumphantly clenched fists. "Who will join me in voting for the registration of all Downworlders?" The howl of the answering crowd was like a river roaring out of control, sweeping away all of Diana's hopes. <|title|>Chapter 13: Babylon <|startofchapter|>There was only a sliver of moon, but the multicolored stars of Faerie lit the sky like bonfires, illuminating the Queen's procession as it wound through silent countryside, over green hills and wide fields. Sometimes they passed through blood-filled rivers, the scarlet fluid splashing up to stain the horses' legs. Sometimes they passed areas of blight, ghostly moonscapes of gray and black. The Seelie faeries whispered and chittered to each other nervously every time another dead patch of land came into view, but Emma could never make out exactly what they were saying. By the time they started to hear the noise, Emma was half-asleep on Silvermane's back. Distant music woke her, and the sound of people crying out. She blinked, half-awake, pulling her hood back into place. They were approaching a crossroads, the first she'd seen that night. Heavy mist hung over the road, obscuring the path ahead. Clusters of tall trees grew at the X where the roads met, and empty iron cages swung from the branches. Emma shivered. The cages were big enough to hold a human being. She glanced toward Julian. He sat alert on Widowmaker, his dark hair hidden by the hood of Fergus's cloak. She could see only a sliver of his skin, like the moon overhead. "Music," he said in a low voice, drawing his horse up beside hers. "Probably a revel coming up." He was right. They passed the crossroads, and the thick mist parted immediately. The music grew louder, pipes and fiddles and sweet flutelike instruments Emma didn't recognize. The field north of the road was dominated by a massive pavilion draped with silk and hung with the broken- crown banner of the Unseelie King. Wildly dancing figures surrounded the pavilion. Most seemed naked, or nearly so, dressed in diaphanous rags. It wasn't much of a dance--they appeared to be mostly writhing together, giggling and splashing in and out of a massive pool of water ringed with silvery rocks. White mist rose off the water, obscuring but not covering a number of half-naked bodies. Emma blushed, mostly because Julian was there, and looked away. The girls--they had to be sisters--on the bay mare behind her giggled, toying with the ribbons at their throats. "Prince Oban's revel," said one. "It could be no other." Her sister looked wistful. "Would that we could go, but the Queen would not approve." Emma glanced back toward the revel. She had listened to Mark speak of faerie revels before as if they were more than massive wild parties. They were a way of calling down wild magic, he'd said. They had a terrifying undercurrent, a barely leashed power. Looking out at the field, Emma couldn't help but feel as if some of the laughing faces she saw were actually screaming in agony. "Up ahead," said Julian, snapping her out of her reverie. "It's the Unseelie Court's tower." Emma looked, and for a moment, a dizzying memory assaulted her: the mural on Julian's bedroom wall showing a castle surrounded by thorned hedges. Ahead of them a dark gray tower rose out of the hills and shadows. Only the top of the tower was visible. Growing up all around it, their sharp spikes visible even from this distance, was a massive wall of thorns. "Well, that's that," Helen said in a curiously flat voice. She sat down at the head of the library table. Aline frowned and put her hand on Helen's back. "They're gone." Dru tried to catch Jaime's eye, but he wasn't looking at her. He'd glanced curiously at Kit and Ty and was now fastening up the straps of his pack. "You can't go," she said to him a bit desperately. "You must be so tired--" "I'm all right." He still didn't look at her. Dru felt wretched. She hadn't meant to lie to Jaime. She'd just never mentioned her age, because she'd been afraid he'd think she was a stupid kid. And then Mark had yelled at him about it. "No, Dru is right." Helen smiled with some effort. "Let us at least give you dinner." Jaime hesitated. He stood twisting the ties of his pack irresolutely as Kit and Ty pushed past him, and Ty said something about going up on the roof. Kit waved and the two of them slipped out of the library. Back to their private world, Dru thought. Ty would never let her in--he'd never let anyone take Livvy's place. Not that Dru wanted to do that. She just wanted to be friends with her brother. Like Helen just wants to he friends with you, said an annoying little voice in the back of her head. She ignored it. "Aline's a really good cook," she said instead. Aline rolled her eyes, but Dru ignored her. Jaime was really skinny--skinnier than he had been when she'd seen him in London. He must be hungry. Maybe if she could get him to stay, she could explain-- There was a noise like a soft explosion. Dru gave a small shriek, and an envelope fell from the ceiling and landed on the table. A faint wisp of smoke hung in the air. "It's addressed to you, babe," Helen said, handing the envelope to Aline. "'Aline Penhallow, Head of the Institute.'" Frowning, Aline ripped the envelope open. Her face tightened. She read aloud: Aline Penhallow: Pursuant to the most recent Council meeting held in Alicante, the Registry ofDownworlders is now enforced. Heads of Institutes and Conclaves, it is your responsibility to make sure that the Downworlders in your region are registered and given identification numbers. You will be receiving a stamp to use in registration, in ink that will show up only in witchlight. Downworlders must be ready to show their marked documents at any time. Records of all registrations must be handed over to the Office of the Inquisitor. Failure to do so may result in suspension of privileges or recall to Alicante. Sed lex, dura lex. The Law is hard, hut it is the Law. In these troubled times, all must he held accountable. Thank you for your understanding. Horace Dearborn NB: As reflects our new policy of accountability, all Institute heads should be advised that the traitors Diego Rosales, Divya Joshi, and Ray an Maduabuchi are awaiting conviction in the Gardfor aiding in the escape of a wanted Downworlder. As soon as the Mortal Sword is reforged, they will stand trial. There was a crash. Jaime had dropped his pack. Drusilla moved to pick it up, but he'd already seized it. "That bastard Dearborn," he said through white lips. "My brother is not a traitor. He is painfully honest, good--" He looked around at the stricken faces surrounding him. "What does it matter?" he whispered. "None of you know him." Helen began to rise to her feet. "Jaime--" He bolted from the library. A second later, Dru tore after him. He was fast, but he didn't know the house or the way the front door stuck. Dru caught up to him as he struggled to yank it open. "Jaime!" she cried. He held up a hand. "Stop. I must go, Drusilla. It's my brother, you understand?" "I know. But please be careful." She fumbled at her belt and held something out to him. Her hand was shaking. "Take your dagger. You need it more than I do." He stared down at the blade she held; he'd given it to her, left it in her room at the London Institute when he'd gone. A gold hunting dagger carved with roses. Gently, he took hold of her hand, closing her fingers over the dagger. "It is yours. A gift," he said. Her voice sounded small. "Does that mean we're still friends?" His fleeting smile was sad. He pulled at the door handle and this time it opened; Jaime slipped through it, past her, and vanished into the shadows. "Dm? Are you all right?" She turned around, scrubbing furiously at her stinging eyes. She didn't want to cry in front of Helen--and it was Helen, her sister standing on the bottom step of the main staircase, looking at her with troubled eyes. "You don't need to worry about me," she said in a shaking voice. "I know you think it's stupid, but he was my first real friend--" "I don't think it's stupid!" Helen crossed the room to Dru in swift strides. Dru's throat hurt almost too much for her to speak. "I feel like people keep leaving," she whispered. This close up, Helen looked even more thin and pretty and she smelled like orange blossoms. But for the first time, she didn't seem remote, like a distant star. She seemed distressed and worried and very much present. There was even an ink stain on her sleeve. "I know how you feel," Helen went on. "I missed you so much while I was on Wrangel Island I couldn't breathe. I kept thinking about everything I was missing, and how I'd miss you getting older, all the little things, and when I saw you in the Council Hall I kept thinking..." Dru braced herself. ". . . how beautiful you'd gotten. You look so much like Mom." Helen sniffled. "I used to watch her getting ready to go out. She was so glamorous, she had such style ... all I can ever think to wear is jeans and a shirt." Dru stared in amazement. "I'm going to stay," Helen said fiercely. "I'm not leaving you ever again." She reached for Dru--and Dru nodded, just the smallest nod. Helen put her arms around her and held her tightly. Dru rested her forehead against her sister and finally allowed herself to remember Helen picking her up when she was small, swinging her around while she laughed, tying ribbons in her hair and finding her lost shoes, inevitably discarded on the beach. They fit together differently now than they had then, Dru thought, as she put her own arms around Helen. They were different heights and shapes, different people than they had been once. But even if they fit differently now, they still fit like sisters. It was nothing like a Portal; there was no rushing tumult, no sense of being picked up by a tornado and hurled around wildly. One moment Cristina was standing in the library at the Institute, and the next she was in a green field, with Mark and Kieran on either side of her and music ringing through the air. Mark dropped his hand from her shoulder; so did Kieran. Cristina shoved the artifact into her pack and slung it onto her back, pulling the straps tight as the boys looked around in astonishment. "It's a revel," said Mark in disbelief. "We've landed in the middle of a revel." "Well, not the middle," said Kieran. He was technically correct; they were just outside a field that was full of whirling, spinning dancers. Pavilions had been set up on the green, with one, more massive than the others, hung with swags of silk. "I thought we were going to Bram's Crossroads?" Cristina said. "We're close to it." Kieran pointed. Across the field, Cristina could see the place where two roads met, surrounding by massive oak trees. "It is the place where the Seelie Lands and the Unseelie Lands meet." "Who is Bram?" said Cristina. "Bram was King before my father, long ago," said Kieran. He indicated the southern road. "Emma and Julian would be coming from there. The Seelie Lands. Any official procession would pass the crossroads." "So we have to get to the road," said Mark. "We have to go through the revel." He turned. "Disguise yourself, Prince Kieran." Kieran gave Mark a dark look. Cristina, not wanting to waste time, unbuckled Kieran's pack, pulled out a rolled cloak, and handed it to him. Kieran drew the cloak on, pulling the hood up. "Am I disguised?" Cristina could still see a glimpse of blue-black hair beneath the edge of the hood but hoped no one would be looking all that closely. If they did, they could tell easily enough that he was a prince. It was in his bearing, in the way he moved, the look on his face. Mark must have had the same thought, for he bent down, took a handful of mud, and rubbed it firmly into Kieran's surprised face, leaving smears of dirt on his cheek and nose. Kieran was not pleased. He glared. "You did that because you enjoyed it." Mark grinned like a little boy and tossed the remaining mud aside. Kieran scrubbed at his nose, still glaring. He did look less princely, though. "Stop it," said Cristina. "Thank you," Kieran said. With a grin, Cristina grabbed some mud and smeared a bit on Kieran's cheek. "You have to get both sides." Mark laughed; Kieran looked indignant for several seconds before giving in and laughing as well. "Now let's not waste any more time," Cristina said a bit regretfully. She wished the three of them could simply stay here, together, and not join the revel. But they had no choice. They pressed forward into the revel, through the area where many of the dancers had already collapsed, exhausted. A boy with smeared metallic paint on his face and striped breeches sat gazing at his hands in a drugged haze as he moved them slowly through the air. They passed a pool of steaming water surrounded by mist; slippery bodies were visible through gaps in the smoke. Cristina felt her cheeks flame red. They moved on, and the crowd closed around them like fast-growing vines. It was nothing like the revel Cristina had seen the last time she was in Faerie. That had been a massive dance party. This was more like a slice of a Bosch painting. A group of faerie men were fighting; their bare upper bodies, slippery with blood, shone in the starlight. A kelpie feasted hungrily on the dead body of a brownie, its open eyes staring sightlessly at the sky. Naked bodies lay entwined in the grass, their limbs moving with slow intent. Pipes and fiddles screamed, and the air smelled like wine and blood. They passed a giant lying unconscious in the grass. All over his huge body were hundreds of pixies, darting and dancing, like a moving sea. No, Cristina realized, they weren't dancing. They were-- She glanced away. Her cheeks felt like they were on fire. "This is my brother's doing," said Kieran, staring grimly at the largest of the pavilions, the one that bore the crest of the Unseelie Court. An ornate throne-like seat had been placed there, but it was empty. "Prince Oban. His revels are famous for their duration and their debauchery." He frowned as a group of naked acrobats hooted from a nearby tree. "He makes Magnus Bane look like a prudish nun." Mark looked as if he'd just heard that there was an alternate sun that was nine million times hotter than Earth's sun. "You never mentioned Oban." "He embarrasses me," said Kieran. A branch broke overhead, depositing a goblin-size horse wearing a garter belt on the ground in front of them. It wore woolen hose with runs in them and golden hoof covers. "I can see why," said Mark as the horse wandered off, nibbling at the grass. It studiously avoided the couples embracing in the tangled undergrowth. Dancers whirled past Cristina in a circle surrounding a ribboned tree, but none of them wore expressions of enjoyment. Their faces were blank, their eyes wide, their arms flailing. Every once in a while a drunken faerie knight would pull one of the dancers from the circle and down into the long grass. Cristina shuddered. From the top of the tree hung a cage. Inside the cage was a hunched figure, white and slimy like a pale slug, its body covered in gray pockmarks. It looks like an Eidolon demon in its true form, Cristina thought. But why would a prince of Faerie have an Eidolon demon in a cage? A horn blared. The music had become more sour, almost sinister. Cristina looked again at the dancers and realized suddenly that they were ensorcelled. She remembered the last time she'd been at a revel, and how she'd been swept away by the music; she didn't feel that way now, and silently thanked the Eternidad. She had read about faerie revels where mortals were forced to dance until the bones in their feet splintered, but she hadn't realized it was something faeries might do to each other. The beautiful young girls and boys in the circle were being danced off their feet, their upper bodies slumping even as their legs moved tirelessly to the rhythm. Kieran looked grim. "Oban gets pleasure from witnessing the pain of others. Those are the thorns of his roses, the poison in the bloom of his gregariousness and gifts." Cristina moved toward the dancers, concerned. "They're all going to die--" Kieran caught her sleeve, pulling her back toward him and Mark. "Cristina, no." He sounded sincerely alarmed for her. "Oban will let them live, once he's humiliated them enough." "How can you be sure?" Cristina asked. "They're gentry. Court hangers-on. Oban would be in trouble with my father if he killed them all." "Kieran is right," said Mark, the moonlight silvering his hair. "You cannot save them, Cristina. And we cannot linger here." Reluctantly Cristina followed as they pushed swiftly through the crowd. The air was full of sweet, harsh smoke, mixing with the mist from the occasional pool of water. "Prince Kieran." A faerie woman with hair like a dandelion clock drifted up to them. She wore a dress of white filaments, and her eyes were green as stems. "You come to us in disguise." Mark's hand had gone to his weapons belt, but Kieran made a quick settling gesture at him. "I can trust you to keep my secret, can I not?" "If you tell me why an Unseelie Prince would come hidden to his own brother's revel, perhaps," said the woman, her green eyes keen. "I seek a friend," Kieran said. The woman's eyes darted over Cristina and then Mark. Her mouth widened into a smile. "You seem to have several." "That's enough," said Mark. "The prince would proceed unhindered." "Now, if it were a love potion you sought, you might come to me," said the faerie woman, ignoring Mark. "But which of these two Nephilim do you love? And which loves you?" Kieran raised a warning hand. "Enough." "Ah, I see, I see." Cristina wondered what it was she saw. "No love potion could assist with this." Her eyes danced. "Now, in Faerie, you could love both and have both love you. You would have no trouble. But in the world of the Angel--" "Enough, I said!" Kieran flushed. "What would it take to end this bedevilment?" The faerie woman laughed. "A kiss." With a look of exasperation, Kieran bent his head and kissed the faerie woman lightly on the mouth. Cristina felt herself tense, her stomach tightening. It was an unpleasant sensation. She realized Mark, beside her, had tensed as well, but neither of them moved as the faerie woman drew back, winked, and danced away into the crowd. Kieran wiped the back of his hand across his lips. "They say a kiss from a prince brings good luck," he said. "Even a disgraced one, apparently." "You didn't need to do that, Kier," said Mark. "We could have gotten rid of her." "Not without a fuss," Kieran said. "And I suspect Oban and his men are here in the crowd somewhere." Cristina glanced up at the pavilion. Kieran was right--it was still empty. Where was Prince Oban? Among the rutting couples in the grass? They had begun to make their way across the clearing again: Faces of every hue loomed out of the mist at her, twisted in grimaces; Cristina even imagined she saw Manuel, and remembered how Emma had been forced to see an image of her father the last time they had been in Faerie. She shuddered, and when she looked again it was not Manuel at all but a faerie with the body of a man and the face of a wise old tabby, blinking golden eyes. "Drinks, madam and sirs? A draft to cool you after dancing?" said the tabby faerie in a soft and cooing voice. Cristina stared, remembering. Mark had bought her a drink from this cat-faced faerie at the revel she'd been to with him. He held the same gold tray with cups on it. Even his tattered Edwardian suit had not changed. "No drinks, Tom Tildrum, King of Cats," said Kieran. His voice was sharp, but he clearly recognized the cat faerie. "We need to find a Seelie procession. There could be several coins in it for you if you led us to the road." Tom gave a low hiss. "You are too late. The Queen's procession passed by here an hour ago." Mark cursed and flung his hood back. Cristina didn't even have time to be startled that usually gentle Mark was cursing; she felt as if a hole had been punched through her chest. Emma. Emma and Jules. They'd missed them. Kieran, too, looked dismayed. "Give me a drink, then, Tom," said Mark, and seized a glass of ruby-colored liquid from the tray. Kieran held out a staying hand. "Mark! You know better!" "It's just fruit juice," Mark said, his eyes on Cristina's. She flushed and glanced away as he drained the glass. A moment later he sank to the ground, his eyes rolling back in his head. "Mark!" Cristina gasped, flinging herself to the ground beside him. He was clearly unconscious, but just as clearly breathing. In fact, he was snoring a bit. "But it was just fruit juice!" she protested. "I like to serve a variety of beverages," said Tom. Kieran knelt down by Cristina. His hood had partly fallen back, and Cristina could see the concern on his face as he touched Mark's chest lightly. The smudges on his cheeks made his eyes stand out starkly. "Tom Tildrum," he said in a tight voice. "It's not safe here." "Not for you, for the sons of the Unseelie King are at each other's throats like cats," said Tom Tildrum with a flash of incisors. "Then you see why you must lead us through to the road," Kieran said. "And if I do not?" Kieran rose to his feet, managing to exude princely menace despite his dirty face. "Then I will yank your tail until you howl." Tom Tildrum hissed as Kieran and Cristina bent to lift Mark and carry him between them. "Come with me, then, and be quick about it, before Prince Oban sees. He would not like me helping you, Prince Kieran. He would not like it at all." Kit lay on the roof of the Institute, his hands behind his head. The air was blowing from the desert, warm and soft as a blanket tickling his skin. If he turned his head one way, he could see Malibu, a chain of glittering lights strung along the curve of the seashore. This was the Los Angeles people sang about in pop songs, he thought, and put into movies; sea and sand and expensive houses, perfect weather and air that breathed as soft as powder. He had never known it before, living with his father in the shadow of smog and downtown skyscrapers. If he turned his head the other way, he could see Ty, a black-and-white figure perched beside him at the roof s edge. The sleeves of Ty's hoodie were pulled down, and he worried their frayed edges with his fingers. His black eyelashes were so long Kit could see the breeze move them as if it were ruffling sea grass. The feeling of his own heart turning over was now so familiar that Kit didn't question it or what it meant. "I can't believe Hypatia agreed to our plan," Kit said. "Do you think she really means it?" "She must mean it," said Ty, staring out over the ocean. The moon was hidden behind clouds, and the ocean seemed to be absorbing light, sucking it down into its black depth. Along the border where the sea met the shore, white foam ran like a stitched ribbon. "She wouldn't have sent us the money if she hadn't. Especially enchanted money." Kit yawned. "True. When a warlock sends you money, you know it's serious. I guarantee you that if we don't get this done like we said we would, she's going to come after us--for the money, at least." Ty pulled his knees up against his chest. "The issue here is that we have to get a meeting with Barnabas, but he hates us. We've already seen that. We can't get near him." "You should maybe have thought of that before you made this deal," said Kit. Ty looked confused for a moment, then smiled. "Details, Watson." He ran a hand through his hair. "Maybe we should disguise ourselves." "I think we should ask Dru." "Dru? Why Dru?" Now Ty looked baffled. "Ask her what?" "To help us. Barnabas doesn't know her. And she does look a lot older than she is." "No. Not Dru." Kit remembered Dru's face in the library when she'd talked about Jaime. He listened to me and he watched horror movies with me and he acted like what I said was important. He remembered how happy she'd been to be taught lock picking. "Why not? We can trust her. She's lonely and bored. I think she'd like to be included." "But we can't tell her about Shade." Ty was pale as the moon. "Or the Black Volume." True, Kit thought to himself. I'm definitely not telling Drusilla about a plan that I hope falls apart before it ever comes to fruition. He sat up. "No--no, definitely not. It would be dangerous for her to know anything about--about that. All we need to tell her is that we're trying to get back on good terms with the Shadow Market." Ty's gaze slid away from Kit. "You really like Drusilla." "I think she feels very alone," said Kit. "I get that." "I don't want her to be in danger," said Ty. "She can't be in any kind of danger." He tugged at the sleeves of his hoodie. "When Livvy comes back, I'm going to tell her I want to do the parabatai ceremony right away." "I thought you wanted to go to the Scholomance?" said Kit without thinking. If only Ty could see that was a possibility for him now, Kit wished-- and instantly hated himself for thinking it. Of course Ty wouldn't want to consider Livvy's death to be any form of freedom. "No," Ty said sharply. "Remember, I told you, I don't want to go there anymore. Besides, you can't have parabatai at the Scholomance. It's a rule. And rules are important." Kit didn't even want to think about how many rules they were breaking right now. Ty had clearly compartmentalized what it would take to bring Livvy back, but nothing like that ever worked perfectly. He was worrying hard at the cuffs of his hoodie now, his fingers shaking a little. Kit touched Ty's shoulder. He was sitting slightly behind him. Ty's back curved as he hunched forward, but he didn't avoid the touch. "How many windows does the front of the Institute have?" Kit said. "Thirty-six," said Ty. "Thirty-seven if you count the attic, but it's papered over. Why?" "Because that's what I like about you," Kit said in a low voice, and Ty's shaking stilled slightly. "The way you notice everything. Nothing gets forgotten. Nothing"-- and no one --"gets overlooked." Emma had begun to nod off again as the night wore on. She woke when her horse stopped in its tracks and pushed her hood back slightly, gazing around her. They had reached the tower. Dawn was breaking and in the first threads of light, the only permanent manifestation of the Unseelie Court looked less like Julian's mural and more like something from a nightmare. The hedge of thorns surrounding the tower was nothing like modest rosebushes. The thorns were steel-colored, each easily a foot long. Here and there they were studded with what looked like massive white flowers. The tower's walls were smooth and dark as anthracite, and windowless. Emma's breath made tracks against the chilly air. She shivered and drew Nene's cloak closer, murmurs rising all around as the sleepy procession of Seelie faeries began to come back to wakefulness. The girls behind her were chattering about what kind of rooms and welcome they might expect from the King. Julian was motionless beside Emma, his spine straight, his hood concealing his face. There was a loud clang, like the ringing of a bell. Emma peered ahead to see that there were gates set into the thorny hedge, tall bronze gates that had just been flung open. She could see a courtyard just past the gates, and a great black archway leading into the tower. Unseelie knights in black cloaks guarded either side of the gates. They were stopping each member of the procession before allowing them to pass through into the courtyard, where two lines of Unseelie faeries flanked the path to the tower doors. The multicolored stars were beginning to fade out of the air, and in their absence, the light of the rising sun cast dull gold shadows over the tower, darkly beautiful as a polished gun barrel. All around the hedge was a flat, grassy plain, punctuated here and there by stands of hawthorn trees. The line of Seelie faeries lurched forward again, and a loud grumble rose among the riot of silks and velvets, wings and hooves. The girls on the bay mare were muttering to each other: How slow they are here in the Night Court. How rude to keep us waiting. The morning air caught the edge of Emma's hood as she turned. "What is this about?" One of the girls shook her head. "The King is suspicious, naturally. Too long has there been enmity between the Courts. The Riders are inspecting each guest." Emma froze. "The Riders of Mannan?" The other girl laughed. "As if there were other Riders!" Julian leaned toward Emma and spoke in a low voice: "There's no way we can get through those gates with the rest of the procession without the Riders recognizing us. Especially you. We need to get out of here." The place where Cortana usually hung at Emma's back ached like a phantom limb. She had killed one of the Riders with her sword--there was no chance they wouldn't remember her. "Agreed. Any idea how to do that?" Julian glanced up and down the restless line of Seelie folk. It stretched from the gates of the tower into the distance, as far as the eye could see. "Not currently." A noise erupted from the line ahead. The dryad in the tree was arguing with a pair of goblins. In fact, small arguments seemed to breaking out up and down the line. Occasionally a faerie knight would ride lazily by and call for order, but no one seemed too interested in keeping things calm. Emma gazed anxiously at the horizon; it was dawn, and soon there would be more light, which would hardly help any attempt on her and Julian's part to try to get away. They could bolt for the gates, but the guards would block them; if they ran for the thorn hedges or tried to leave the line, they'd certainly be seen. Then accept that you'll be seen, Emma thought. She turned to Julian, drawing herself up imperiously. "Fergus, you fool!" she snapped. "The Queen explicitly demanded that you bring up the rear of this procession!" Julian's lips shaped the word "What?" silently. He didn't move, and the girls on the bay mare giggled again. Emma struck his shoulder lightly, her fingers sliding across his back, drawing a quick symbol they both knew. It meant: I have apian. "Distracted by a dryad, were you?" she said. She dug her heels into Silvermane's side and the horse, startled, trotted sharply in place. "The Queen will have your head for this. Come along!" Giggles spread throughout the nearby faeries. Emma turned Silvermane and began to ride toward the back of the procession. After a moment, Julian followed her. The giggles faded behind them as they trotted down the line; Emma didn't want to attract notice by going too fast. To her relief, no one paid much attention to them. As they rode away from the tower, the Seelie procession's order began to deteriorate. Faerie folk were grouped together laughing, joking, and playing cards. None of them seemed interested in their progress toward the tower, much less anything closer at hand. "This way," Julian murmured. He bent low over Widowmaker, and the horse bolted toward a nearby thicket of trees. Emma grabbed her own reins tightly as Silvermane leaped after the stallion. The world rushed by in a blur --she was galloping, which was like flying, the horse's feet barely seeming to touch the ground. Emma caught her breath. It was like the terror and freedom of being in the ocean, at the mercy of something far stronger than you. Her hood flew back and the wind tore at her, her blond hair whipping like a banner. They pulled up at the far side of the thicket, out of sight of the Seelie folk. Emma looked at Julian, breathless. His cheeks were flushed to brightness by the cold air. Behind him, the horizon had turned to bright gold. "Nice work," he said. Emma couldn't suppress a smile as she slid from Silvermane's back. "We might not have angelic magic here, but we're still Shadowhunters." Julian dismounted beside her. Neither needed to say they couldn't keep the horses with them; Emma struck Silvermane lightly on the flank, and the mare took off toward the lightening horizon. She knows her own way home. Widowmaker vanished after her in a dark blur, and Emma and Julian turned toward the tower. The long shadows of dawn were beginning to stretch out across the grass. The tower rose before them, the high hedge circling it like a deadly necklace. Emma eyed the grass between their trees and the hedge nervously. There was no cover, and though they were out of sight of the gates, anyone watching from the tower could see them approach. Julian turned toward her, pushing his hood back. Emma supposed it no longer mattered; he was done pretending to be Fergus. His hair was tousled and sweat-dampened from the hood. As if he had read her mind, he said, "We can't worry about cover. We'll have to brazen it out till we get to the hedge." He slid his hand into hers. Emma tried to stop herself from jumping. His palm was warm against her palm; he drew her toward him and they began to walk across the grass. "Keep your head turned toward me," Julian said in a low voice. "Faeries are romantics, in their way." Emma realized with a jolt that they were playing at being a couple, taking an affectionate walk in the dawn light. Their shoulders brushed, and she shivered, even as the sun rose higher, warming the air. She glanced sideways at Julian. He didn't look like someone on a romantic walk; his eyes were wary, his jaw set. He looked like a statue of himself, one carved by someone who didn't know him well, who had never seen the sparkle in his eyes he saved for his family, who had never seen the smile he had once saved for Emma alone. They had reached the hedge. It rose above them, a tangle of closely woven vines, and Emma drew her hand out of Julian's with an indrawn breath. Up close, the hedge looked as if it were made out of shining steel, the thorns sticking out everywhere at jagged angles. Some were as long as swords. What Emma had thought were flowers were the whitening skeletons of those who had tried to climb the wall, a warning to future trespassers. "This might be impossible," said Julian, looking up. "We could wait until nightfall--try to sneak through the gates." "We can't wait that long--it's dawn now. We have to stop the Queen." Emma drew a dagger from her belt. It wasn't Cortana, but it was still Shadowhunter steel, long and sharp. She laid the edge against one of the thorns, cutting at an angle. She had expected resistance; there was none. The thorn sliced away easily, leaving behind a stump that dripped grayish sap. "Ugh," she said, kicking the fallen thorn away. An odd scent, dull and green, rose from the damaged hedge. She took a deep breath, trying to push down her unease. "Okay. I'm going to cut my way through. I can even see the tower through the vines." It was true; this close up, it was clear that the hedge wasn't a solid wall, and there were gaps between the vines big enough to shove a human body through. "Emma--" Julian made as if to reach out to her, then dropped his hand. "I don't like this. We're not the first people who've tried to get through the hedge." He indicated the skeletons above and around them with a jerk of his chin. "But were the first Shadowhunters," said Emma, with a bravado she didn't feel. She slashed at the hedge. Thorns pattered down around her in a light rain. Light began to fade as she pushed on, farther into the hedge. It was as thick as the lane of a highway, and the vines seemed to weave together above her, forming a shield against the sunlight. She thought she heard Julian call out to her, but his voice was muffled. She glanced back in surprise--and stiffened in horror. The hedge had closed up behind her like water. She was surrounded by a thick green-gray wall, studded with deadly spikes. She slashed out wildly with her dagger, but the edge of it bounced off the nearest thorn with a clang, as if it were made of steel. A sharp pain stabbed at her chest. The vines were moving, pressing in toward Emma slowly. The sharp tip of one jabbed her above her heart; another stabbed at her wrist; she jerked her hand away, dropping the dagger; she had more in her pack, but there was no way she could reach them now. Her heart was pounding as the vines surged toward her; she could see flashes of white through the vines as they moved, others who had been trapped in the heart of the hedge wall. The tip of a thorn slashed along her cheek and blood ran warmly down her face. Emma shrank back, and more thorns stabbed into her back and shoulders. I'm going to die, she thought, her thoughts blackening with terror. But Shadowhunters weren't meant to be afraid, weren't meant to feel fear. In her mind, Emma begged the forgiveness of her parents, her parabatai, her friends. She had always thought she'd die in battle, not be crushed to death by a thousand blades, alone and without Cortana in her hand. Something stabbed into her throat. She twisted, trying to pull away from the agony; she heard Julian call her name-- Something slammed into her palm. Her fingers closed reflexively around it, her body knowing the feel of the sword's hilt before her mind registered what she was holding. It was a sword. A sword with a white blade, like a slice cut out of the moon. She recognized it immediately from illustrations in old books: It was Durendal, the sword of Roland, brother blade to Cortana. There was no time to ask questions. Against the thorns, she swung her arm up, Durendal a silvery blur. There was a scream, as of twisting metal, as Durendal sliced through thorns and vines. Sap sprayed, stinging Emma's open cuts, but she didn't care; she cut again and again, the blade whipsawing in her hand, and the vines fell away around her. The hedge writhed as if in pain and the vines began to draw back as if afraid of Durendal. A path opened both ahead of her and behind her, like the parting of the Red Sea. Emma fled through the narrow gap between the vines, calling for Julian to follow her. She exploded out the other side into a world of color and light and noise: green grass, blue sky, the distant sounds of the procession advancing to the tower. She fell to her knees, still clutching Durendal. Her hands were slicked with blood and sap; she was gasping, bleeding from long rents in her tunic. A shadow darkened the sky above her. It was Julian. He fell to his knees across from her, his face bone white. He caught at her shoulders and Emma held back a wince. Having his hands on her was more than worth the pain, as was the look on his face. "Emma," he said. "That was incredible. How--?" She held up the sword. "Durendal came to me," she said. Blood from her cuts pattered down onto the blade as it began to shimmer and fade. In a moment, she was holding only empty air, her fingers still curved around the place the golden hilt had been. "I needed Cortana, and it sent Durendal to me." "'I am of the same steel and temper as Joyeuse and Durendal,'" Julian murmured. "Twinned blades. Interesting." He released her shoulders and tore a strip of cloth from the hem of his tunic, wadding it up to press against the cut on her cheek with a surprising gentleness. Joy surged through her, brighter than her pain. She knew he couldn't love her, but in that moment it felt as if he did. "Mother?" Aline said. "Mother, are you there?" Helen squinted. She was seated on the desk in the Institute's office, Aline next to her. Jia seemed to be trying to appear as a Projection against the far wall, but at the moment she was just a rather wobbly shadow, like an image taken with a handheld camera. "Ma!" Aline exclaimed, clearly exasperated. "Could you please appear? We really need to talk to you." Jia sharpened at the edges. Now Helen could see her, still in her Consul robes. She looked drawn, so thin as to be worryingly emaciated. The texture of the wall was still visible through her, but she was solid enough for Helen to read her expression: It mirrored her daughter's in annoyance. "It isn't easy to Project from the Gard," she said. "We could have spoken on the phone." "I wanted to see you," said Aline. There was a slight tremble in her voice. "I needed to know what's going on with this Registry. Why did the Council pass this piece of trash?" "Horace--" Jia began. Aline's voice cracked. "Where were you, Mom? How did you let this happen?" "I did not let it happen," Jia said. "Horace lied to me. A very significant meeting was set up this morning, a meeting with Sister Cleophas of the Iron Sisters about the Mortal Sword." "Is it fixed?" said Aline, diverted momentarily. "They have made no progress reforging it. It was created by angels, not humans, and perhaps only an angel can heal it." Jia sighed. "Horace was meant to run a very standard meeting about border protocols while I was at the Adamant Citadel. Instead it became this fiasco." "I just don't understand how he convinced people that this was a good idea," Helen said. Jia had begun to pace. Her shadow wobbled up and down the wall like a puppet being pulled back and forth on a stage. "Horace should never have been a politician. He should have had a career in the theater. He played upon everyone's worst fears. He sent a spy into Faerie and when he came to harm, claimed he was an innocent, murdered child. He claimed Kieran Kingson drove Samantha Larkspear mad--" "Mark told me she went out of her mind because she fell into the pool in the Hollow Place while the Cohort was tormenting Kieran," said Helen indignantly. "She tried to murder him." Jia looked bleakly amused. "Should I ask where Kieran is now?" "Back in Faerie," said Aline. "Now, you should tell me where Horace is now so I can punch him harder than he's ever been punched in his life." "Punching him won't help," said Jia. This was a conversation she and Aline had often. "I have to think about how to take constructive steps to undo the damage he's done." "Why did he arrest the Scholomance kids?" Helen said. "According to Mark, Rayan and Divya and Diego were the most decent of the Centurions." "To make an example of them. 'This is what happens if you help Downworlders,"' said Jia. "We can't actually register people," said Aline. "It's inhumane. That's what I'm going to tell the Clave." Jia's Projection fizzed angrily at the edges. "Don't you dare," she said. "Haven't you heard what I just said? Dearborn has it in for Helen because of her faerie blood. You'll wind up in jail if you do, and someone more compliant will be installed in your place. You have to at least look like you're going along with it." "How do we do that?" Helen had always been a little afraid of her Consul mother-in-law. She always imagined that Jia couldn't possibly be pleased that Aline had chosen to marry a woman, much less a half-faerie one. Jia had never indicated by word or deed that she was disappointed in Aline's choice, but Helen felt it just the same. Still, she couldn't help but speak up now. "Downworlders are meant to come to the Sanctuary and we have to turn in the registrations to the Clave." "I know, Helen," Jia said. "But you can't ignore the orders. Horace will be watching to make sure the L.A. Institute meets its quota. I just got you two back from exile. I'm not losing you again. You're clever. Find a creative way to undermine the registration mandate without ignoring it." Despite everything, Helen felt a little shock of happiness. You two, Jia had said. As if she had missed not just Aline but Helen, too. "There is one bright spot," Jia said. "I was with Sister Cleophas when the news came through, and she was furious. The Iron Sisters are definitely on our side. They can be formidable when they choose. I don't think Horace will enjoy having them as enemies." "Mom," Aline said. "You and Dad have to get out of Idris. Come here for a while. It's not safe there." Helen took Aline's hand and squeezed, because she knew what the answer would be. "I can't just leave," Jia said, sounding not like Aline's mother but like the Consul of the Clave. "I can't abandon our people. I swore an oath to protect Nephilim, and that means weathering this storm and doing everything I can to reverse what Horace has done--to get those children out of the Gard prison--" Jia looked over her shoulder. "I must go. But remember, girls--the Council is basically good, and so are the hearts of most people." She vanished. "I wish I believed that," said Aline. "I wish I understood how my mother could believe that, after all this time as Consul." She sounded angry at Jia, but Helen knew that wasn't what was going on. "Your mom is smart. She'll be safe." "I hope so," said Aline, looking down at her hand and Helen's, intertwined on the desk. "And now we need to figure out how to register people without actually registering them. A plan that doesn't involve punching Horace. Why do I never get to do the things I want to do?" Despite everything, Helen laughed. "Actually, I have an idea. And I think you might like it." The clearing overlooked the road below, visible as a white ribbon through the trees. The moon overhead was caught in the branches, casting enough illumination that Cristina could see the glade clearly: Surrounded by thick hawthorn trees, the grass underfoot was springy and cool, damp with dew. She had spread out Mark's blanket roll and he lay asleep on it, curled partly on his side, his cheeks flushed. Cristina sat beside him, her legs stretched out before her in the dew-wet grass. Kieran was nearby, leaning against the trunk of a hawthorn. In the distance, Cristina could hear the sounds of the revel, carried on the clear air. "This," said Kieran, his gaze fixed on the road below, "was not how I was expecting the events following our arrival in Faerie to transpire." Cristina brushed Mark's hair back from his face. His skin was fever hot; she suspected it was a side effect of whatever the cat faerie had given him to drink. "How long do you think Mark will be unconscious?" Kieran turned to press his back against the tree. In the darkness, his face was a map of black-and-white shadow. He had fallen into silence the moment they had reached the glade and gotten Mark settled. Cristina could only imagine what he had been dwelling on. "Another hour or so, most likely." Cristina felt as if a lead weight were pressing against her chest. "Every moment we wait brings us farther away from Emma and Julian," she said. "I do not see how we could possibly catch up with them now." Kieran stretched his hands out in front of them. Long-fingered faerie hands, almost double-jointed. "I could summon Windspear again," he said a little haltingly. "He is swift enough to reach them." "You do not sound as if you like that idea much," Cristina observed, but Kieran only shrugged. He drew away from the tree and came toward Mark, bending to tuck a corner of the blanket over Mark's shoulder. Cristina watched him consideringly. Windspear was a prince's steed, she thought. Windspear would catch attention, here in Faerie. He might alert the kingdom to Kieran's presence, put him in danger. But Kieran seemed willing to summon him regardless. "Not Windspear," she said. "Even if we had him--what would we do, try to pluck them from the procession out of the air? We would be noticed, and think of the danger--to Mark, to Jules and Emma." Kieran smoothed the blanket over Mark's shoulder and stood up. "I do not know," he said. "I do not have answers." He pulled his cloak around him. "But you are right. We cannot wait." Cristina glanced up at him. "We cannot leave Mark, either." "I know. I think you should let me go alone. You remain here with Mark." "No!" Cristina exclaimed. "No, you're not going alone. And not without the artifact. It's our only way out." "It doesn't matter," said Kieran. He bent down to lift his bag, swinging it over his shoulder. "It doesn't matter what happens to me." "Of course it matters!" Cristina started to her feet and winced; her legs were stinging with pins and needles. She hurried after Kieran nonetheless, limping a little. Moving swiftly, Kieran had reached the edge of the glade when she caught up with him. She seized hold of his arm, her fingers digging into the fabric of his sleeve. "Kieran, stop." He stopped, though he didn't look back at her. He was staring out at the road and the revel beyond. In a remote voice, he said, "Why do you prevent me?" "To go alone on that road is dangerous, especially for you." Kieran didn't seem to hear her. "When I touched the pool at the Scholomance, I felt the confusion and pain that I caused to you," he said. Cristina waited. He said nothing else. "And?" "And?" he echoed in disbelief. "And I cannot bear it! That I hurt you like that, hurt you and Mark like that--I cannot stand it." "But you must," said Cristina. Kieran's lips parted in astonishment. "What?" "This is the nature of having a soul, Kieran, and a heart. We all stumble around in the dark and we cause each other pain and we try to make up for it the best we can. We are all confused." "Then let me make up for it." Gently but firmly, he pried her hand from his sleeve. "Let me go after them." He started down the hill, but Cristina followed, blocking his way. "No-- you must not--" He tried to step around her. She moved in front of him. "Let me--" "I will not let you risk yourself!" she cried, and caught at the front of his shirt with her hands, the fabric rough under her fingers. She heard him exhale with surprise. She had to tilt her head back to look into his eyes; they glittered, black and silver and remote as the moon. "Why not?" he demanded. She could feel the warmth of him through the linen of his shirt. There had been a time she might have thought him fragile, unreal as moonbeams, but she knew now that he was strong. She could see herself reflected in his dark eye; his silver eye was a mirror to the stars. There was a weariness to his face that spoke of pain, but a steadfastness, too, more beautiful than symmetry of features. No wonder Mark had fallen in love with him in the Hunt. Who would not have? "Perhaps you are not confused," she said in a whisper. "But I am. You confuse me very much." "Cristina," he whispered. He touched her face lightly; she leaned into the warmth of his hand, and his fingers slipped across her cheek to her mouth. He outlined the shape of her lips with his fingertips, his eyes half-closed. She reached up to wrap her arms around his neck. He pulled her against him, and their mouths came together so swiftly she could not have said who kissed who. It was all fire: the taste of him on her mouth, and his skin smooth where she touched it, sliding her fingers under the collar of his cloak. His lips were fine-grained, soft but firm; he sipped at her mouth as if drinking fine wine. Her hands found his hair and buried themselves in the soft locks. "My lady," he whispered against her mouth, and her body thrilled to the sound of his voice. "Lady of Roses." His hands slipped down her body, over her curves and softness, and she was lost in the heat and fire of it, in the feeling of him against her, so different from Mark but just as wonderful. He gripped her waist and pulled her tight to him and a shock went through her: He was so warm and human, and not remote at all. "Kieran," she breathed, and she heard Mark's voice in her head, saying his name: Kier, Kieran, my dark one, and she remembered Mark and Kieran kissing in the desert and felt a flutter of excitement deep in her bones. "What's going on?" It was Mark's voice--not just in her head, but cutting through the night, through the fog of desire. Cristina and Kieran jerked away from each other, almost stumbling, and Cristina stared at Mark, a silver-and-gold silhouette in the darkness, blinking at them. "Mark," Kieran said, a catch in his voice. Suddenly the clearing was full of light. Mark threw up an arm, flinching away from the sudden unnatural brilliance. "Mark!" Kieran said again, and this time the catch in his voice was alarm. He moved toward Mark, drawing Cristina after him, his hand in hers. They stumbled together into the center of the clearing just as a contingent of faerie guards burst from the trees, their torches blazing like banners against the night. They were led by Manuel Villalobos. Cristina stared in shock. He wore their same livery: a tunic with the symbol of the broken crown hovering over a throne. His sandy hair was tousled, his grin slightly manic. A medallion like the one Cristina always wore glimmered at his throat. "Prince Kieran," he said as the guards surrounded Kieran, Mark, and Cristina. "How delighted your brother Oban will be to see you." Kieran had his hand on the hilt of his sword. He spoke flatly. "That will be a first. He has never been delighted to see me before." "What are you doing here, Manuel?" Cristina said. Manuel turned to her with a sneer. "I'm here on business. Unlike you." "You don't know why I'm here," she snapped. "Apparently, to whore for a faerie and his half-breed lover," said Manuel. "Interesting activities for a Shadowhunter." Mark's sword flashed out. He lunged at Manuel, who leaped back, snapping an order to the prince's guards. They swarmed forward; Cristina barely had time to get her balisong free and slash it forward, slicing a long cut across the chest of a guard with purple-and-blue-streaked hair. Mark and Kieran were already fighting, each with a sword in hand. They were beautifully fast and deadly; several guards fell, shouting in pain, and Cristina added two more to the pile of wounded. But there were far too many of them. Through the blaze of torches and flash of blades, Cristina could see Manuel lounging against the trunk of a tree. As she caught his eye, he grinned and made an obscene gesture at her. He clearly wasn't worried about who was going to win this. Mark shouted. Three guards had grabbed Kieran, who was struggling as they twisted his arms behind his back. Two more were advancing on Mark, and another leaped for Cristina; she sank her balisong into his shoulder and pushed past his falling body toward Mark and Kieran. "Bind them!" Manuel called. "Prince Oban would take them to the King for questioning! Do not harm them." He grinned. "The King wants to do that himself." Cristina's eyes met Mark's as the two guards seized him. He shook his head at her frantically, shouting through the clamor: "Cristina! Take the artifact! Go!" Cristina shook her head --I can t leave you, I cant --but her eyes fell on Kieran, who was looking at her with naked hope and pleading. Reading the meaning in his gaze, she leaped for her pack where it lay on the ground. Several of Oban's guards dashed toward her, weapons outstretched, as Manuel cried out for them to stop her. She thrust her hand into the bag and seized the artifact. With all her will, she concentrated her mind on the one person she thought could help them. Take me to him. Take me. The glade flashed out of existence just as the guards closed in. <|title|>Chapter 14: The Viol, the Violet, and the Vine <|startofchapter|>The search for Dru took a little longer than Kit had expected. She wasn't in the library, or in her bedroom, or down by the beach. They found her eventually in the TV room, sorting through a pile of old videotapes with names like Scream and Scream Again and Bloody Birthday. The look she gave them when they came in wasn't friendly. Her eyes were swollen, Kit saw, as if she'd been crying recently. He wondered if it was about Emma and Julian being in trouble in Faerie, or Jaime, or some combination of both. She'd seemed heartbroken when he'd fled. "What?" she said. "Helen and Aline are with Tavvy, if you came to tell me to watch him." "Actually," said Ty, sitting down on a piano bench, "we need your help with something else." "Let me guess." Dru dropped the videotape she was holding and Kit held himself back from commenting on the fact that he didn't think anyone under eighty owned videotapes anymore. "Dishwashing? Laundry? Lying down in front of the Institute so you can use me for a step?" Ty furrowed his eyebrows. "What--" Kit cut in quickly. "It's nothing like that. It's a mission." Dru hesitated. "What kind of mission?" "A secret mission," said Ty. She tugged on a braid. Both of her braids were short, and stuck out almost horizontally on either side of her head. "You can't just ignore me until you want me to do something," she said, though she sounded torn. Ty started to protest. Kit interrupted, holding up a hand to quell them both. "We did want to ask you to join in before," he said. "Ty didn't want to put you in danger." "Danger?" Dru perked up. "There's going to be danger?" "So much danger," said Kit. Dru narrowed her eyes. "What are we talking about here, exactly?" "We need to get on better terms with the Shadow Market," said Ty. "Since we can't go to Faerie, we want to see if there's anything we can do to help Emma and Julian from this side. Any information we can get." "I would like to help Emma and Jules," Dru said slowly. "We think there are answers in the Market," said Kit. "But it's run by this really awful warlock, Barnabas Hale. He's agreed to a meeting with Vanessa Ashdown." "Vanessa Ashdown?" Dru looked stunned. "She's in on this?" "No, she's not," said Ty. "We lied to him about who wanted to see him so we could get the meeting." Dru snorted. "You don't look like Vanessa. Either of you." "That's where you come in," said Kit. "Even if we weren't pretending to be Vanessa Ashdown, he'd never stay if we showed up at the meeting place, because he hates us." Dru smiled a little. "Don't you mean he hates you?" she said to Kit. "He also hates me," Ty said proudly. "Because Livvy and I were with Kit at the Shadow Market in London." Dru sat up. "Livvy would have done this for you, right, if she was here?" Ty didn't say anything. He had raised his eyes to the ceiling, where the fan spun lazily, and was staring at it as if his life depended on it. "I don't look anything like Vanessa Ashdown," Dru added hesitantly. "He doesn't know what she looks like," said Kit. "He just knows she's got a lot of money for him." "He probably thinks she isn't thirteen," said Dru. "He's got to imagine she's an adult, especially if she's got a lot of money. Which incidentally, why do you have a lot of money?" "You look a lot older than you are," said Kit, ignoring her question. "And we thought..." Ty got up and went into the hall. They both looked after him, Kit wondering if the mention of Livvy had sent him running. Whether any cracks were starting to appear in the wall of his belief that Livvy was coming back. "Did I upset him?" Dru said in a small voice. Before Kit could respond, Ty had returned. He was carrying what looked like a pile of gray cloth. "I've noticed people look at clothes a lot more than they look at other people's faces. I thought maybe you could wear one of Mom's suits." He held out a slate-colored skirt and jacket. "I think you were similar sizes." Dru stood up and reached out for the clothes. "Okay," she said, taking them into her arms carefully. Kit wondered how much she remembered of her mother. Did she have dim recollections, like he did, of a soft kind voice, the sound of singing? "Okay, I'll do it. Where are we going?" "Hollywood," Kit said. "Tomorrow." Dru frowned. "Helen and Aline don't know about this. And they said they'd be in the Sanctuary all tomorrow night. Something to do with Downworlders." "Good," Kit said. "So they won't be wondering where we are." "Sure--but how are we getting there?" Ty smiled and tapped his side pocket, where his phone was. "Drusilla Blackthorn, meet Uber." For the third time, Emma and Julian paused in the shadow of a doorway to consult their map. The inside of the tower was nearly featureless--if it weren't for the map, Emma suspected, they would have been wandering lost for days. She winced and ached every time she moved. Julian had done his best to patch her up outside the tower, using torn strips from his shirt as bandages. They were so used to functioning with healing runes and the Silent Brothers' skills, Emma thought, that they never expected to be working hurt, not for more than a brief amount of time. Pushing past the pain where the thorns had driven into her body was exhausting, and she found herself glad for the chance to rest for a moment while Julian stared at the map. The inside of the tower resembled the inside of a seashell. The corridors twisted around and around in circles, ever narrowing as they ascended, keeping to the shadows. They had discussed whether to use Nene's potion, but Julian had said they should save it until they absolutely needed it--right now, the corridors were crowded enough with faeries both Seelie and Unseelie that no one was taking too close a look at two hurrying figures in torn cloaks. "The corridors split here," Julian said. "One leads down, one up. The throne room isn't marked on the map--" "But we know it's near the top of the tower," said Emma. "The Queen's probably already there. We can't let the King get his hands on the Black Volume." "Then I guess we go that way," Julian said, indicating the ascending corridor. "Keep going up, and hope for some kind of helpful signage on the way." "Sure. Because faeries are so big on helpful signage." Julian almost smiled. "All right. Keep your hood down." They headed up the steeply sloping corridor, their hoods pulled low. As they ascended, the crowds of faeries began to thin out, as if they were reaching rarefied air. The walls became lined with doors, each one more elaborately decorated than the one before, with chips of rare stones and inlaid gold. Emma could hear voices, laughter and chatter, from behind them; she guessed this was the area where the courtiers lived. One doorway was half-obscured by a tapestry patterned in stars. Standing outside it were two guards dressed in unusual gold-and-black armor, their faces hidden by helmets. Emma felt a shiver of cold as they went by, passing into an area where the corridor narrowed, and narrowed again, as if they were truly winding closer to the heart of a seashell. The torches burned lower in their holders, and Emma squinted ahead, wishing for a Night Vision rune. Julian clamped his hand down on her arm, drawing her into a shallow alcove. "Redcaps," he hissed. Emma peered around the wall. Indeed, two lines of redcaps stood guarding a tall archway. Redcaps were among the most vicious of faerie warriors. They wore scarlet uniforms dyed in the blood of those they had slain. Unusually for faeries, these guards were bearded, with weathered faces. They carried pikestaffs whose metal spearheads were crusted with dried blood. "This must be it," Julian whispered. "The throne room." He drew the chain with the vial on it over his head, snapped off the top, and swallowed the liquid inside. Emma hurried to do the same, and stifled a gasp. It burned, as if she had swallowed liquid fire. She saw Julian make a pained face before he dropped his empty vial in his pocket. They stared at each other. Other than the burning in her throat and stomach, Emma felt the same. She could still see her own hands and feet, clear as day, and Julian hadn't so much as started to get fuzzy around the edges. It wasn't quite what she'd imagined. "Nene did say we'd only be invisible to Unseelie faeries," said Julian quietly after a long moment. His eyes suddenly narrowed. "Emma...?" "What?" she whispered. "What is it?" Slowly he raised his hand and tapped his chest, where his parabatai rune was, beneath his clothes. Emma blinked. She could see a dark red glow emanating from the spot, as if his heart itself were glowing. The glow was moving, shifting, like a tiny sandstorm. "Julian..." She glanced down. There was a glow surrounding her own rune too. It was uncanny enough to make her shiver, but she pushed the feeling away and stalked out into the corridor. A moment later Julian was at her side. The line of redcaps was still there, in front of the dark archway. Emma began to move toward them, conscious of Julian beside her. She could see him clearly, and hear his footsteps, yet as they moved toward the throne room and slipped between the rows of redcaps, no one turned toward them. Not a single redcap appeared to hear or see them. Emma could see the dark light as if it were strapped across Julian's chest. But why would an invisibility potion make his parabatai rune glow? It didn't make sense, but she didn't have time to wonder about it--they were passing the last pair of redcaps. She felt like a mouse walking blithely in front of an oblivious cat. A moment later they were over the threshold and inside the throne room of the King. It was not what Emma had expected. Rather than glimmering gold and rich decor, the room was bare, the floor dark gray stone. The walls were windowless, except for the north wall: A massive glass rectangle looked out onto a blowing nighttime view. The room was scattered with heaps of tumbled boulders, some as big as elephants, many smashed into smaller pieces. It looked like the ruins of a giant's playground. There were no seats in the room except for the throne, which was itself a boulder into which a seat had been carved. Stone rose all around its back and sides, as if to shield the King, who sat motionless on the throne's seat. In his hands was Julian's copy of the Black Volume. As they entered, the King looked up, frowning, and for a moment of panic Emma thought that he could see them. His face was as awful as she remembered it: Divided exactly down the middle as if by a blade, it was half the face of a beautifully striking man, and half stripped skeletal bone. He wore a rich red velvet doublet, a cloak was fastened to his shoulders with rows of golden aiguillettes, and a golden crown bound his brow. A clear vial dangled on a chain around his throat, filled with some scarlet potion. Reflexively, Emma and Julian ducked behind the nearest heap of broken stone just as four guards strode in, surrounding a woman in white with long dark hair. Behind her marched a young boy with a golden circlet around his head. Two guards accompanied him. They wore the unusual black-and-gold armor Emma had noted before, in the corridor. She didn't have much time to think about it, though, because as the woman in white moved into the room, she turned her head, and Emma recognized her. It was Annabel Blackthorn. Memory surged in the back of Emma's throat, a bitter wave. Annabel on the dais in the Council Hall. Annabel, her eyes wild, driving the shards of the Mortal Sword into Livvy's chest. Annabel covered in blood, the dais swimming with it, Julian holding Livvy in his arms. Beside Emma, Julian sucked in a harsh, choking breath. He had gone rigid. Emma grabbed his shoulder. It felt like granite: unyielding, inhuman. His hand was at his belt, on the hilt of a shortsword. His eyes were fixed on Annabel. His whole body was tense with barely leashed energy. He's going to kill her. Emma knew it the way she knew each of his next moves in a fight, the rhythm of his breath in battle. She tugged at him, pulling him around to face her, though it was like trying to move a boulder. "No." She spoke in a harsh whisper. "You can't. Not now." Julian was breathing hard, as if he'd been running. "Let me go, Emma." "She can see us," Emma hissed. "She's not a faerie. She will see us coming, Julian." He looked at her with wild eyes. "She'll raise the alarm, and we'll be stopped. If you try to kill Annabel now, we'll both be caught. And we'll never get the Black Volume back." "She needs to die for what she did." Two harsh red dots burned on his cheekbones. "Let me kill her and the King can keep the goddamn book--" Emma caught at his cloak. "We'll both die here if you try!" Julian was silent, his fingers closing and unclosing at his side. The red glow above his parabatai rune flared like fire, and black lines chased through it, as if it were glass about to shatter. "Would you really choose revenge over Tavvy and Dru and Ty?" Emma shook him, hard, and let go. "Would you want them to know that you did?" Julian sagged back against a rock. He shook his head slowly, as if in disbelief, but the red glow around him had dimmed. Maybe the mention of the Blackthorn kids had been a low blow, Emma thought, but she didn't care; it was worth it to keep Julian from flinging himself headlong into suicide. Her legs were still shaking as she turned around to peer at the throne room through a gap in the rocks. Annabel and the boy had approached the throne. Annabel looked nothing like she had before--she wore a dress of bleached linen, gathered under her bosom, falling to brush her ankles. Her hair fell down her back in a smooth river. She looked quiet and ordinary and harmless. She held the hand of the boy in the crown carefully, as if ready to shield him from harm if necessary. They were still surrounded by Unseelie guards in gold and black. The King smiled at them with half his face, a horrible smile. "Annabel," said the King. "Ash. I have had this day some interesting tidings." Ash. Emma stared at the boy. So this was the Seelie Queen's son. He had silver-fair hair and deep green eyes like forest leaves; he wore a high-collared velvet tunic and the golden band around his forehead was a smaller version of the King's. He was probably no more than Dru's age, thin in a way that didn't look healthy, and there was a bruise on his cheek. He carried himself with the same straight posture Kieran did. Princes probably weren't supposed to slump. He looked familiar in a way she couldn't quite place. Was it just that he resembled his mother? "This day I have had a visit from the Queen of the Seelie Court," said the King. Ash lifted his head sharply. "What did my mother want?" "As you know, she has long bargained for your return, and only today she has brought me what I asked for." The King sat forward and spoke with relish. "The Black Volume of the Dead." "That's impossible," said Annabel, her pale cheeks flushing. "I have the Black Volume. The Queen is a liar." The King tapped two gloved fingers against his bony cheek. "Is she," he mused. "It is something of an interesting philosophical question, isn't it? What is a book? Is it the binding, the ink, the pages, or the sum of the words contained?" Annabel frowned. "I don't understand." The King drew the copy of the Black Volume from where it had rested at his side. He held it up so that Annabel and Ash could see it. "This is a copy of the Black Volume of the Dead," he said. "The book that is also called the Dark Artifices, for it contains within it some of the most formidable magic ever recorded." He caressed the front page. "The Queen says it is an exact duplicate. It was made with the assistance of a wizard of great power called OfficeMax, of whom I know nothing." "Jesus Christ," Julian muttered. "The Queen has left it with me for the span of a single day," said the King, "that I might decide whether I wish to trade Ash for it. I have sworn to return it to her at the rising of the sun tomorrow morning." "The Queen is deceiving you." Annabel drew Ash closer to her side. "She would trick you into trading Ash for this--this flawed copy." "Perhaps." The King's eyes were hooded. "I have yet to make my decision. But you, Annabel, you also have your decisions to make. I have observed that you've become very close to Ash. I suspect you would miss him if you were parted. Is that not true?" A thunderous expression had come across Annabel's face, but for a moment Emma was more interested in Ash's. There was a look in his eyes that made him seem more familiar to her than ever. A sort of coldness, astonishing in someone so young. "But you need Ash," said Annabel. "You've said so a dozen times. You require him as your weapon." She spoke with contempt. "You have already worked magics upon him since you took him from his mother's Court. If you give him back--" The King leaned back in his stone seat. "I will not give him back. The Queen will see reason. It will take some time for the Black Volume to work its will upon Ash. But when it has, we will no longer need the Portal. He will be able to spread blight and destruction with his very hands. The Queen hates Shadowhunters as much as I do. Within a month, their precious land of Idris will look like this--" He gestured at the window set in the wall. Suddenly the view through the glass changed--in fact, there was no glass. It was as if a hole had been torn in the world, and through it Emma could see a view of a blowing desert and a gray sky scorched with lightning. The sand was stained red with blood, and broken trees stood scarecrow-like against the acidic horizon. "That's not our world," Julian murmured. "It's another dimension--like Edom--but Edom was destroyed--" Emma couldn't stop staring. Human figures, half-covered by the sand; the white of bone. "Julian, I can see bodies--" The King waved his hand again, and the Portal turned dark. "As Thule is now, so Idris will be." Thule? The word was familiar. Emma frowned. "You think you'll be able to convince the Queen to endanger her child just for power," said Annabel. "Not everyone is like you." "But the Queen is," said the Unseelie King. "I know it, because Ash would not be the first." He grinned a skeleton grin. "Annabel Blackthorn, you have toyed with me because I have allowed it. You have no true power here." "I know your name," Annabel gasped. "Malcolm told it to me. I can force you--" "You will die the moment the name leaves your lips, and Ash will die after," said the King. "But because I do not wish bloodshed, I will give you one night to decide. Give me the true Black Volume, and you may remain here with Ash and be his guardian. If not, I shall join forces with the Queen instead and drive you from my lands, and you will never see Ash again." Ash pulled away from Annabel's restraining hands. "What if I say no? What if I refuse?" The King turned his red gaze on the boy. "You are a perfect candidate for the Dark Artifices," he said. "But in the end, do you truly think I would stop at harming Sebastian Morgenstern's brat?" The name was like a blow. Sebastian Morgenstem. But how-- "No!" Annabel screamed. "Don't you touch him!" "Guards," said the King, and the guards snapped to attention. "Take the woman and the boy away. I am done with them." Julian scrambled to his feet. "We have to follow them--" "We can't," Emma whispered. "The potion is wearing off. Look. The red light is almost gone." Julian glanced down. The scarlet glow above his heart had dimmed to an ember. The guards had closed about Annabel and Ash and were marching them from the chamber. Emma caught hold of Julian's hand and together they crept out from behind the boulders. The guards were escorting Annabel and Ash out the arched doorway. For a moment, Emma and Julian paused in the center of the throne room, directly in the line of the King's view. He was staring straight ahead of him. In the untouched side of his face, Emma thought she could see a bit of Kieran--a Kieran split down the middle, half-tortured and inhuman. She felt Julian's hand tighten on hers. Every one of her nerves was screaming that the King could see them, that at any moment he would call for his guards, that they would die here before Emma even got a chance to lift a blade. She told herself she would at least try to plunge her dagger into the King's heart before she died. Julian tugged her fingers. Incredibly, he had the map in his other hand; he jerked his chin toward the arch beneath which Ash and Annabel had vanished. There was no more time. They raced through the archway. There was little point struggling; there were at least three faerie guards on each side of Mark, and their grip on his arms was merciless. He was dragged through the revel, still dizzy from the potion in his blood. Shapes seemed to loom up on either side of him: spinning dancers, blurred as if seen through the prism of a teardrop. The King of Cats, regarding him with glimmering tabby eyes. A row of horses, rearing away from the sparks of a fire. He couldn't see Kieran. Kieran was somewhere behind him; Mark could hear the guards shouting at him, almost drowned out by the sounds of music and laughter. Kieran. Cristina. His heart was a cold knot of fear for both of them as he was shoved through a filthy puddle and up a set of wooden steps. A flap of velvet canopy slapped him in the face; Mark sputtered as the guard holding him laughed. There were hands at his waist, unfastening his weapons belt. He kicked out reflexively and was shoved to the floor. "Kneel, half-breed," snapped one of the guards. They released him, and Mark crouched where he was, on his knees, his chest throbbing with rage. Two guards stood behind him, holding spears level with the back of Mark's neck. A few feet away, Kieran was in the same position, though he was bleeding from a cut lip. His expression was set in a bitter snarl. They were inside Oban's pavilion. The walls were heavy hanging velvet, the floor expensive rugs that had been trampled and muddied by uncountable booted feet. Wooden tables held dozens of empty and half-empty bottles of wine; some had tipped over and spilled, filling the room with the reek of alcohol. "Well, well," said a drawling voice. Mark looked up; in front of them was a red velvet sofa, and sprawled on it was an indolent-looking young man. Hair streaked black and purple tumbled around his pointed ears, and black kohl was smudged around glittering silver eyes. He wore a silver silk doublet and hose, and white lace spilled from his cuffs. "Little brother Kieran. How nice to see you." His silver eyes flicked to Mark. "With some guy." He flicked a dismissive hand in Mark's direction and turned his smirk on Manuel. "Good work." "I told you I saw them," Manuel said. "They were at the revel." "I admit it never occurred to me they would be stupid enough to set foot in the Unseelie Lands," said Oban. "You win that point, Villalobos." "They make an excellent gift," said Manuel. He stood between the guards with their spears, his arms crossed over his chest. He was grinning. "Your father will be pleased." "My father?" Oban tapped his fingers on the arm of the sofa. "You think I should deliver Kieran to my father? He'll just kill him. Dull." Mark darted a glance at Kieran through his eyelashes. Kieran was on his knees. He didn't look frightened of Oban, but he'd never show it if he was. "A gift is more than just a gift," said Manuel. "It's a method of persuasion. Your father--mistakenly--thinks you weak, Prince. If you bring him Prince Kieran and the Shadowhunter half-breed, he'll realize he should take you more seriously." He lowered his voice. "We can convince him to kill the prisoners and move ahead with our plan." Prisoners? What prisoners? Mark tensed. Could he mean Julian and Emma? But that wasn't possible. They were with the Seelie procession. At least Cristina was safe. She had vanished, eluding the guards. The Angel knew where she was now. Mark chanced a sideways glance at Kieran: Wasn't he panicking too? Wasn't he terrified for Cristina as Mark was? He ought to be, considering the way they'd been kissing. Oban reached for the side table and scrabbled around among the bottles stacked on top of it, looking for one with alcohol still in it. "My father does not respect me," he said. "He thinks my brothers are more worthy of the throne. Though they are not." "I'm sure they think the same about you," Mark muttered. Oban found a bottle and lifted it up to the light, squinting at the half inch of amber fluid still inside. "A wanted prisoner might change his mind, but it might not be enough." "You do want to rise in your father's favor, do you not?" said Manuel. Oban took a swig from his bottle. "Of course. Rather." Mark had the feeling Manuel was rolling his eyes internally. "Then you need to demonstrate that he should take you seriously. The first time you went to him, he wouldn't even hear you out." "Fatuous old bag," muttered Oban, tossing the empty bottle aside. It shattered. "If you bring him these prisoners, he will listen to you. I will go with you-- I will tell him that together we tracked them down. I will make it clear that as a representative of the Cohort, I wish to work only with you as our contact in the Unseelie Court. It will make you seem important." "Seem?" said Oban. Kieran made an inelegant snorting noise. "It will make him understand how important you are," Manuel corrected smoothly. "Your father will realize the value you bring to him. The hostages are the key to a parley between Nephilim and the Unseelie Folk that has no precedent in our history. When every Shadowhunter sees you meet and achieve a mutually beneficial peace, all will realize that you and Horace Dearborn are the greatest of leaders, able to achieve the alliance your forefathers could not." "What?" said Mark, unable to stay silent. "What are you talking about?" "Might it not bring real war?" Oban had found another bottle. "War seems like a bad idea." With exasperated patience, Manuel said, "There will be no war. I told you." He glanced at Kieran and then at Mark. "War is not the object here. And I think the King wants Kieran dead more than you think." "Because the people love him," said Oban, in a maudlin tone. "They wanted him to be King. Because he was kind." "Kindness is not a kingly quality," said Manuel. "As the people will discover when your father hangs Kieran from a gibbet high above the tower gardens." Mark jerked backward, and nearly impaled himself on a spear. "You--" "Kindness may not be a kingly quality, but mercy is," interrupted Kieran. "You don't have to do this, Oban. Manuel is not worth your effort, and his schemes are so many lies." Oban sighed. "You are tediously predictable, youngest son." He dropped the bottle he was holding, and the scarlet liquid in it ran out onto the floor like blood. "I want the throne, and I shall have the throne, and Manuel will help me get it. That is all I care about. That is all that matters." A smile touched the corners of his mouth. "Unlike you, I have not come to love and pursue shadows, but only what is real." Remember, Mark thought. Remember that none of this is real. Oban flicked a hand toward the two of them as Manuel smirked almost audibly. "Chain them together and find them horses. We ride for the Unseelie Court this night." Barnabas was already at the 101 Coffee Shop in Hollywood when Drusilla arrived. He was sitting at a tan booth and forking up a plate of delicious- looking huevos rancheros. He sported a black cowboy hat and a bolo tie that seemed to be choking him, but he looked pleased with himself. Dru stopped to glance at her reflection in the windows that ran along one side of the diner. The other side was a kitschy rock wall; in the corner there was a jukebox and dozens of framed photos of what Dru guessed were the owner's family and friends. It was dark outside, and the window gave her back a clear picture of herself. Dark hair pulled up and smooth, gray business suit, classic heels (stolen from Emma's closet). She wore red lipstick and no other makeup; Kit had assured her that less was more. "You don't want to look like a clown," he'd said, tossing her powder blush in Racy Rose over his shoulder as if it were a grenade. Somewhere out there in the shadows, Kit and Ty were watching, ready to jump to her defense if anything went wrong. Knowing that made her feel less worried. Hoisting her briefcase in her hand, she sauntered across the diner past ivory-and toffee-colored leather seats, and slid into the booth across from Barnabas. His snake's eyes flicked up to observe her. Up close, he didn't look well. His scales were dull, and his eyes rimmed with red. "Vanessa Ashdown?" "That's me," Dru said, setting the briefcase down on her place mat. "In the flesh." His forked tongue slithered out of his mouth. "And plenty of it. No worries, I like a woman with curves. Most of you Shadowhunters are so bony." Blech, Dru thought. She tapped the briefcase. "Business, Mr. Hale." "Right." His tongue vanished, to her relief. "So, toots. You've got proof that Hypatia Vex has been passing secrets to Shadowhunters?" "Right in here." Dru smiled and pushed the briefcase toward him. He unsnapped it and flicked it open, then frowned. "This is money." "Yes." She gave him a bright smile and tried not to glance around to see if anyone was coming to back her up. "It's the money we've earmarked for Hypatia in exchange for secrets." He rolled his eyes. "Normally, I'm happy to see a big box of money, don't get me wrong. But I was kind of hoping for photos of her handing evidence to some Blackthorns." "Why Blackthorns?" Drusilla said. "Because," said Barnabas. "They're smarmy little rats." He sat back. "You gotta give me something better than this, Vanessa." "Well, look closer at the money." Dru played for time. "Because, ah, it's not ordinary money." Looking bored, Barnabas picked up a stack of twenties. Dru tensed. Kit had told her to keep Barnabas talking, but it wasn't like she could distract him by telling him the plot of Bloody Birthday or about the new cute thing Church had done. "There ain't nothing special about this money," Barnabas began, and broke off as the door of the diner flew open and a tall warlock woman with dark skin and bronze hair strode into the room. She wore a glimmering pantsuit and toweringly high heels. She was followed by two other Downworlders--a muscled male werewolf and a pallid, dark-haired vampire. "Damn," said Barnabas. "Hypatia--what--?" "I heard you were selling secrets to Shadowhunters, Hale," said Hypatia. "Look at that--caught with your hand in the bag." She winked at Dru. The pupils of her eyes were shaped like golden stars. "How could you?" demanded the vampire. "I thought it was all lies, Barnabas!" She sniffed and glanced at Dru. "You were really buying secrets off him? Who are you, anyway?" "Drusilla," said Dru. "Drusilla Blackthorn." "A Blackthorn?" said Barnabas, outraged. "And he was definitely selling secrets," said Dru. "For instance, he just told me he dug up a copy of the Red Scrolls of Magic from under Johnny Rook's booth as soon as he died. And he's been keeping it to himself." "Is that true?" rumbled the werewolf. "And you call yourself the head of the Shadow Market?" "You little--" Barnabas launched himself across the table at Dru. She slid out of the booth fast and collided with someone's torso with an oomph. She looked up. It was Ty, a shortsword in his hand, pointed directly at Barnabas's chest. He put one arm protectively around Dru, his gaze never wavering from the warlock. "Leave my sister alone," he said. "That's right," said Kit. He waved from the next booth. "I forgot my weapons. But I do have this fork." He wiggled it. "You are so forked," he said to Barnabas. "Oh, shut up," Barnabas said. But he looked defeated; the werewolf had already grabbed him, pulling his arms behind his back. Hypatia was clearing the briefcase and money off the table. She winked her starry eyes at Ty and Dru. "Time for you Shadowhunters to go," she said. "This marks the end of your little Downworlder deal. And tell your new Inquisitor that we don't want anything to do with him or his bigoted rules. We'll go where we want, when we want." Ty lowered his sword slowly. Kit dropped his fork, and the three of them strode out of the diner. Once on the pavement, Dru took a deep, relieved breath of air--it was a warm night, and the moon was high and glowing over Franklin Avenue. She felt shivery with excitement--she'd done it! She'd tricked a famous warlock. Pulled off a con. She was a con woman now! "I think Hypatia meant what she said to us," Kit said, glancing back through the windows of the coffee shop. Hypatia and the other Downworlders were escorting a struggling Barnabas toward the back door. "All that stuff about telling the Inquisitor--that wasn't part of the con. That was a real message." "As if we could get word to the Inquisitor," said Ty. He touched his hand absently to the locket at his throat. "That was good. You did a really good job, Dru." "Yep. You kept your cool," said Kit. He glanced up and down the street. "I'd suggest we go get milk shakes or something to celebrate, but this is kind of a scary neighborhood." "Shadowhunters don't worry about scary neighborhoods," said Dru. "Have you learned nothing from the way Batman's parents died?" said Kit, feigning shock. Ty smiled. And for the first time since Livvy had died, Dru laughed. With Aline and Tavvy's help, Helen had set up a large table inside the Sanctuary. Two chairs sat behind it, and the table was covered in the accoutrements of bureaucracy: pens and blank forms that had been sent by the Clave, file folders and rubber stamps. It was all drearily mundane, in Helen's opinion. A long line of werewolves, warlocks, vampires, and faeries stretched through the room and out the front doors. They had set up their "Registry Station" atop the Angelic Power rune etched on the floor, blocking the doors that led into the Institute. The first Downworlder to step up to their makeshift office was a werewolf. He had an enormous mustache that reminded Helen of seventies cop movies. He was glowering. "My name is Greg--" "Your name is Elton John," Aline said, writing it down. "No," said the werewolf. "It's Greg. Greg Anderson." "It's Elton John," said Aline, grabbing a stamp. "You're thirty-six and you're a chimney sweep who lives in Bel Air." She stamped the paper in red ink-- registered --and handed it back. The werewolf took the paper, blinking in puzzlement. "What are you doing?" "It means the Clave won't be able to find you," explained Tavvy, who was sitting under the table, playing with a toy car. "But you're registered." "Technically," said Helen, willing him to accept the ruse. If he didn't, they'd have trouble with the others. Greg looked at the paper again. "Just my opinion," he said, "but the guy behind me looks like Humphrey Bogart." "Humphrey it is!" said Aline, waving her stamp. "Do you want to be Humphrey Bogart?" she asked the next Downworlder, a skinny, tall warlock with a sad face and poodle ears. "Who doesn't?" said the warlock. Most of the Downworlders were wary as they worked their way through the rest of the line, but cooperative. There were even some smiles and thanks. They seemed to understand that Aline and Helen were attempting to undermine the system, if not why. Aline pointed at a tall blond faerie in the line, wearing a gossamer dress. "That one's Taylor Swift." Helen smiled as she handed a werewolf a stamped form. "How much trouble are we going to get into for this?" "Does it matter?" said Aline. "We're going to do it anyway." "True enough," said Helen, and reached for another form. Take me to him. Take me. There was quiet and silence--and then light, and a thousand sharp, pricking pains. Cristina yelped and struggled free of what felt like a tangle of briars, tumbling sideways and thumping hard onto grassy earth. She sat up, looking ruefully down at her hands and arms, dotted with dozens of tiny pinpricks of blood. She had landed in a rosebush, which was more than a little ironic. She got to her feet, brushing herself off. She was still in Faerie, but it seemed to be daytime here. Golden sunlight burnished a thatched-roof cottage of pale yellow stone. A turquoise-blue river ran past the small house, lined with blue and purple lupin flowers. Cristina wasn't sure what she had expected, but it hadn't been this pastoral bliss. She dabbed gently at the blood on her hands and arms, gave up, and glanced up and down the small, winding trail that cut through the tall grass. It led from the front door of the cottage, across the meadow, and vanished into the hazy distance. Cristina marched up to the cottage door and knocked firmly. "Adaon!" she called. "Adaon Kings on!" The door swung open as if Adaon had been waiting on the other side. The last time Cristina had seen him, he had been decked out in the regalia of the Unseelie Court, with the broken crown insignia on his chest. Now he wore a plain linen tunic and breeches. His deep brown skin looked warm in the sunlight. It was the first time she had been able to see his resemblance to Kieran. Maybe it was because he looked furious. "How is it possible that you are here?" he demanded, looking around as if he couldn't believe she had come alone. "I sought help," she said. "I was in Faerie--" He narrowed his eyes. He seemed to be staring suspiciously at a bluebird. "Come inside immediately. It is not safe to speak outside." The moment she was inside the cottage, Adaon closed the door and set himself to fastening a number of intricate-looking, complicated locks. "Faerie is a dangerous place right now. There are all sorts of ways you could have been tracked or followed." They were inside a small wood-paneled entryway. An arched doorway led through to the rest of the cottage. Adaon was blocking it, arms crossed in front of his chest. He was glowering. After a moment's hesitation, Cristina held out the artifact to him. "I could not have been tracked. I used this." If she'd hoped Adaon would look relieved, he didn't. "Where did you get that?" "It is a family heirloom," Cristina said. "It was given freely as a gift by a family of hadas who an ancestor of mine aided." Adaon scowled. "It is a token of Rhiannon. Treat it with care." He stalked out of the entryway and into a small living room, where a well-scrubbed wooden table stood in a shaft of sunlight pouring through wide, leaded windows. A small kitchen was visible: A vase on the table held a riot of colorful flowers and stacked bowls of painted pottery. Cristina felt a bit as if she were inside the cottage of the dwarves in Snow White: Everything was diminutive, and Adaon seemed to tower, his head nearly scraping the ceiling. He gestured for her to sit down. She took a chair, realizing as she sat how exhausted her body was and how much she ached all over. Worry for Emma and Julian, now compounded by panic over Mark and Kieran, pounded through her like heartbeats. "Why are you here?" Adaon demanded. He wasn't sitting. His big arms were still crossed over his chest. "I need your help," Cristina said. Adaon slammed a hand down on the table, making her jump. "No. I cannot give aid or help to Nephilim. I may not agree with my father on many things, but I would not go directly against his wishes by conspiring to aid a Shadowhunter." He stood for a moment in silence. Sunlight illuminated the edges of the white lace curtains at the window. Through the glass Cristina could see a field of poppies stretching away in the distance toward glimmering cliffs, and a faint sparkle of blue water. The house smelled like sage and tea, a soft and homey scent that made the ache inside her worse. "Do you know why I came to you?" she said. "I do not," Adaon said grimly. "In London, I followed Kieran from the Institute because I didn't trust him," she said. "I thought he was on his way to betray us. It turned out he was on his way to speak to you." Adaon's frown didn't budge. "I realized as the two of you talked that he was right to trust you, that you were the only one of his brothers who cared for him," said Cristina. "He said that you gave him Windspear. You are the only member of his family who he speaks of with any affection at all." Adaon threw up a hand as if to ward off her words. "Enough! I don't want to hear more." "You need to hear it." "I do not need the Nephilim to tell me about Kieran!" "You do," said Cristina. "Guards are taking Kieran to your father right now, as we speak. He will certainly be killed if we do nothing." Adaon didn't move. If Cristina hadn't seen him swallow, she would have thought he was a statue. An angry, towering statue. "Helping him would be a true betrayal of my father." "If you don't help, then it will be a true betrayal of your brother," said Cristina. "Sometimes you cannot be loyal to everyone." Adaon leaned his big hands on the back of a chair. "Why did you come here?" he said. "Why did you bring me this news? It is possible my father will spare him. He is well liked by the people." "You know your father will kill him for just that reason," said Cristina. Her voice shook. "Before the Hunt no one in Kieran's life ever loved or cared for him at all, save you. Are you really going to abandon him now?" <|title|>Chapter 15: Turrets and Shadows <|startofchapter|>"Sebastians son," Emma whispered. "He had a son." They had taken shelter in a room that looked like a disused food pantry. Bare shelves lined the walls, and empty baskets littered the floor. Emma thought of the fruit and bread they had certainly once held, and tried to ignore the gnawing of her stomach. She hadn't eaten since the sandwiches the day before. "There have always been rumors that Sebastian had an affair with the Queen," Julian said. He was sitting with his back against a wall of the pantry. His voice sounded remote, as if it were coming from the bottom of a well. He'd sounded like that since they'd left the throne room. Emma didn't know if it was a side effect of the potion or of seeing Annabel and letting her go. "But he only died five years ago." "Time passes differently in Faerie," said Emma. "Ash seems maybe thirteen." She scowled. "He looks like Sebastian. I remember seeing Sebastian in the Institute. He was so ..." Vicious. Cold. Inhuman. "Blond." Julian didn't look up. His voice was like ice. "You should have let me end her." "Julian, no." Emma rubbed at her temples; her head was aching. "You would absolutely have been killed if you tried." "Emma--" "No!" She dropped her hands. "I hate Annabel too. I hate her for standing there alive when Livvy's dead. I hate her for what she did. But there are more important things at stake right now than our revenge." Julian raised his head. "You lived for revenge for years. All you thought about was revenge for your parents." "I know. And then I got my revenge, and it did nothing for me. It left me feeling empty and cold." "Did it?" His eyes were cold and hard as blue-green marbles. "Yes," Emma insisted. "Also, then Malcolm came back from the dead as a sea monster, so ..." "So you're saying I shouldn't kill Annabel because she'll come back as a sea monster?" "I'm just pointing out the futility of my murdering Malcolm," said Emma. "And you know who ended up killing him in the end? Annabel." There was a long silence. Julian ran his fingers through his hair; Emma wanted to crawl across the room to him on her hands and knees, to beg him to go back to being the Julian he used to be. But maybe that was impossible. Maybe Livvy's death had fallen like a scythe between that Julian and this one, killing any possibility that he might transform, like the swan princes in the fairy tale, back into the thoughtful, considering boy she loved, with secrets in his heart and paint on his hands. "So what are you saying?" he asked at last. "No one would blame you for killing Annabel," said Emma. "But sometimes we have to put aside what we want right now for something bigger. You taught me that. The old you." "Maybe," said Julian. He yanked down his sleeve, and Emma saw again what she had seen in the clearing--the peculiar rust-splashed cloth tied around his right wrist. She put a hand on his arm, stilling his movement. "What is that?" "It's Livvy's blood," he said. "I tore a strip off the shirt I was wearing when she died and tied it on my wrist. I'll take it off when I kill Annabel. Not before." "Julian--" He pulled his sleeve back down. "I understand what you're saying. I just don't see why I should be the one to stop." His voice was toneless. Emma felt cold all over. It was like looking at someone bleeding from a mortal wound who didn't seem to know or understand that they were hurt. "Anyway," Julian said. "We need to go find Ash." I failed, Emma thought. There was something else I should have said, something that would have convinced him, and I failed. "Why do we need to find Ash?" "You heard the King. Ash is the weapon. The one that Clary and Jace came to find." "He's part of a weapon," Emma said. "The King is poisoning his own land, and Brocelind Forest, too. He thinks he can use Ash to make the poison even more deadly, to destroy more of Idris." "That's the impression I got, yeah. But the King needs the Black Volume to make that second part work." "Then aren't we better off going after the Black Volume?" "Which one?" Julian said. "Annabel has the real one. The Queen has the copy--well, the King has it at the moment, but it's hers. That splits our goal --unless we pull Ash out of the equation." Julian's hair tumbled around his face in the darkness; Emma could see the thin scratches all over his skin where the thorns of the hedge had cut him. "Both of his bargains hinge on Ash--Annabel wants Ash, and so does the Queen. Taking Ash will buy us time and prevent the King from a making a deal." "I'm not hurting a little kid, Julian," Emma said flatly. "If that's what you mean by 'pull Ash out of the equation,' I'm not doing it." "We don't have to hurt him," Julian said. "Kidnapping him should work just fine." Emma sighed. "And then what?" "We offer Annabel a trade--the Black Volume for Ash. She'd do anything for him." Emma wondered if she ought to point out how strange that was. She decided not to--this Julian didn't understand why anyone felt strongly about anything. "Then we kill her and take the book," he finished. "What about the Queen?" "If the King doesn't have Ash, she's got no reason to trade the Black Volume, and she won't. Meanwhile we get to the falls, head back to Idris with Ash and the original Black Volume, and Dearborn's plan is shot. We walk into the Council with both those things and we'll be heroes. The Clave won't let the Cohort touch us." "Ash isn't a thing," said Emma. "The King called him a weapon," said Julian. Emma changed tack. "We don't know how to find Ash in the tower." "I know you saw those guards in the corridor, just like I did," Julian said. "And later in the throne room. They're Ash's guards. We know where his room is. We've seen it." His eyes were glittering with determination. "I need you with me, Emma." "Then promise me something," she said. "Promise we'll take Ash to Jia, not Dearborn." "Fine," said Julian. "I don't care about what happens to Sebastian Morgenstern's son." Real Julian would have cared, Emma thought. Real Julian would have cared about any child, because he loved his own so much. He would have seen Tavvy in Ash, and Dru, and Ty, no matter who Ash's father was. "So will you come with me?" he said. I will, she thought. Because someone has to protect Ash from you, and protect you from yourself She rose to her feet. "I'm with you," she said. "Hello?" Ty moved forward into the darkness of the cave, his witchlight shining in his hand. He looked like a painting to Kit, with the illumination bright on his dark hair and pale skin. "Shade? Are you here?" Kit had his own witchlight in his pocket, but Ty's stone was casting plenty of light, picking out the cracks in the granite walls, the wooden table scored with old marks of knives and fire, the letters on its surface flaring briefly into life: Fire wants to bum. They'd left Dru back at the Institute; she'd gone humming off to bed, and Kit had been pleased that they'd made her happy. She'd done well with Barnabas, too. Kit had been right: She had plenty of con artist in her. "Shade," Ty had said the moment Drusilla was out of earshot. "We have to talk to Shade." He'd been vibrating with excitement, his cheeks flushed, his fingers working at one of his fidget toys. It was a clear night with a three-quarter moon, the sky alive with fast- moving clouds, blown by wind off the ocean. Ty practically ran along the edge of the water, feet soundless on the damp sand; Kit found he wasn't quite as breathless as he would have expected trying to keep up. Maybe he was turning into more of a Shadowhunter despite himself. "Shade?" Ty called again, and this time the shadows moved and a light flared up inside the cavern. A lamp on the table had switched on, filling the chamber with illumination and shadows. Out of the deeper shadows, a grumpy voice spoke: "Who is it? Who's bothering me?" "Kit Herondale and Ty Blackthorn," Ty said, his witchlight flaring higher. "We need to talk to you." There was a sigh and a shuffle. "You'd better have a good reason for waking me up." The shadows moved and resolved themselves into Shade, clambering out of a sleeping bag. He wore a pair of pin-striped pajamas and fuzzy slippers on his green feet. "We sent you a note saying we were coming," said Kit. Shade glared. "I was asleep. It's three in the morning." The sleeping bag wiggled. A moment later Church crawled out, making chirping noises. He curled up on top of the bag, blinking his large yellow eyes. "That isn't very loyal," Ty said, looking at Church sternly. Shade yawned. "We've known each other a long time, that cat and I. We had some things to catch up on." Kit felt the conversation getting away from him. "We did what you told us to do," he said to the yawning warlock. "We're square with the Shadow Market." "That's right," said Ty. "Hypatia Vex is running it now and says we can come there whenever we want." An odd expression passed over the warlock's face; interestingly, Shade did not look happy. He looked surprised and disturbed. Kit filed the fact away for future consideration. "Then you can begin the spell," said Shade slowly. "Once you've acquired all the ingredients, of course." "What are the ingredients?" asked Kit. "Please tell me we don't have to do Malcolm's thing with the hands of twelve murderers. I don't know twelve murderers. I don't even know twelve shoplifters." "No." Shade had begun to pace. "Malcolm brought Annabel back the way he did because he had her body. We don't have your sister's body, so we can't use his methods." "She wasn't my sister," murmured Kit. "If I remember correctly, there's only one spell from the book that you can use," said Shade, still pacing. "That's right," said Ty. "There's really a spell?" Kit said. They both looked at him. "I just--I don't see how you can bring someone back from the dead when their body is gone." Ty had gone tense all over. "The book says you can do it," he said. "It says it's possible." Shade snapped his fingers, and a mug of something steaming appeared on the table. He slumped into the chair and curled his hands around it, looking grim, or as grim as a green warlock in fuzzy slippers could look. "Because there's no body, this is a highly unstable spell," he said. "You aren't the first to try it. Nothing is ever truly destroyed. That much is true. There are ways that the bodiless dead can be returned. Their spirit can be placed in another body, but that is a true evil, because the first body will die." "No!" said Ty. "I don't want that. Livvy wouldn't want that." "The body can return as a living corpse," Shade went on. "Not dead but not entirely alive. The body could come back with a corrupted mind, looking perfectly like Livvy but unable to think or speak. The disembodied spirit might return, or in some cases a Livvy from another world--like Edom-- could be snatched into ours, leaving a hole behind in the world she departed." "It seems like there aren't any good options," Kit said nervously. "But it can work," said Ty. All the blood had drained from his face. "It has worked in the past. People have been brought back, perfectly." "Unfortunately," said Shade, "yes." Kit knew already that "yes" was all Ty would hear. "We'll get it right," Ty said. "We'll get the real Livvy back." Kit felt the back of his neck prickle. He couldn't tell if Ty was panicking, but Kit definitely was. What in his life had he ever gotten so right that he had the nerve to volunteer for a project that absolutely couldn't go wrong? "What are the things we need from the Market?" Ty said. He didn't sound like he was panicking, and his calmness let Kit breathe again. Shade sighed and drew a piece of paper toward him across the desk; he must already have scribbled on it some time before. He began to read the list out loud: "Incense from the heart of a volcano. Chalk powdered from the hones of a murder victim. Blood, hair, and bone of the person to be brought over. Myrrh grown by faeries, harvested at midnight with a silver sickle. An object from another world." "The person to be brought over?" Ty said. "That's Livvy, right?" "Of course," Shade said. "Without her body, how can we get her blood, hair, and bone?" said Kit. His mind raced along with the question: Maybe it would be impossible, maybe they couldn't get the ingredients, and there would never be a chance of getting the spell wrong and inviting disaster. "It can be done," said Ty quietly. His fingers touched the locket at his neck briefly. "The incense, the myrrh--we can get those at the Market." "What about an object from another world?" said Kit. "There are a few in this dimension," said Shade. "Most are in the Spiral Labyrinth." He held up a hand. "And before you ask, no, I will not help you get one. My assistance ends with advising you." Ty frowned. "But we'll need you to help with the spell," he said. "Shadowhunters--we can't do magic." Kit knew what Ty meant. Warlocks were among the few who could naturally do magic in the world; magicians like his father had to find an energy source because they couldn't tap into ley lines, and energy sources-- especially clean ones like the one Shade had promised them--weren't easy to get. Even if you could find someone to sell you a catalyst, Shadowhunters were forbidden by Law to buy that sort of thing, and even if Ty didn't care about breaking the Law, it would take him years to learn how to perform magic the way Johnny Rook had. "I said I would contribute a catalyst you could use," said Shade. "You must do the rest yourselves. I will not touch necromancy." Church meowed. Ty picked up the list of ingredients; his eyes were deep and dark, more black than gray in the cave light. "Okay," he said. "Good enough." He took out his witchlight and gestured for Kit to follow him; Shade rose to his feet and said something about walking them out. Kit hurried after Ty, who seemed as eager to be gone as he had been to come in the first place. They had reached the end of the tunnel, where the rock opened out into sand and ocean, when Shade put his hand on Kit's shoulder. "Christopher," he said. "Wait one moment." Ty had already made his way out onto the beach. He was bent over; Kit realized he was stroking Church's fur. The cat had fohowed them out soundlessly and was making figure eights between Ty's legs, rubbing his head against the boy's calves. "Watch over Tiberius," said Shade. There was something in his voice, an inflection, that made it sound as if he had learned English a long time ago. "There are many ways to be endangered by magic." Kit glanced up in surprise. "What do you mean? We don't have to kill anybody, or create any death magic energy. Isn't that what makes necromancy wrong?" Shade sighed. "Magic is like thermodynamics," he said. "You're always taking something from somewhere. Every act has repercussions, and this one may have repercussions you do not expect and cannot guard against. I see you think of yourself as Ty's protector." His voice gentled. "Sometimes you need to guard people against the things they want, as well as the things they fear." Kit's heart clenched. Out on the beach, Ty straightened up. The wind blew his hair, and he reached up his hands, unhesitating and unselfconscious, to touch the wind and the night air. His face shone like a star. In ah the world, Kit had never met anyone he believed to be so incapable of evil. "I would never let anything hurt Ty," he said. "You see, I--" He turned to tell Shade, to explain to him how it was, how it would always be. But the warlock had disappeared. Mark's skin burned softly where the pure iron manacles had been chained around his wrists. Oban and his guard rode ahead on their horses; Manuel was in among them, as if it were natural for a Shadowhunter to ride among Unseelie hosts. He turned occasionally to smirk at Mark and Kieran, who walked behind the group. Manacles circled both their wrists, connected to a thick iron chain that clipped to the pommel of Oban's saddle. It was a punishment Mark had seen before. He kept an anxious eye on Kieran in case he stumbled. A prisoner who fell would be dragged along behind Unseelie horses while the guards laughed. Kieran was already pale with pain. The cold iron affected him much more than it did Mark; his wrists were bleeding and chafed where the iron touched them. "They spoke of hostages," he said finally, as they reached the crest of a low hill. "Whose death are we being exchanged for?" "We'll find out soon enough," said Mark. "I am afraid," said Kieran, naked honesty in his voice. "Manuel Villalobos was at the Scholomance when I was hiding there. He is a terrible person. There is nothing he would not do. Most of the Cohort strike me as followers rather than leaders, even Zara. She does as her father tells her, as she has been taught, though they are teachings of hatred and cruelty. But Manuel is different. He does what he does because he wishes to cause people pain." "Yes," said Mark. "It's what makes him dangerous. He isn't a true believer." He glanced around them; they were passing near to a patch of blight. He had started to get used to the sight of them, annihilated landscapes of ashy grass and dead trees, as if acid had been poured onto the earth from the sky. "We can trust in Cristina," he said in a near whisper. "She will be looking for help for us, even now." "Did you notice something curious?" said Kieran. "Oban did not ask us about her. Where she might have vanished to, or who she might have sought out." "Perhaps he was aware we did not know." Kieran snorted. "No. Manuel did not tell him Cristina was ever there, mark my words. He would prefer Oban not be angry he had let a Shadowhunter escape." "What is Manuel doing with Oban? No offense, but Oban doesn't seem like the brightest of your siblings." Kieran's eyes narrowed. "He is a drunkard and a turnip." "But an ambitious turnip." Kieran chuckled reluctantly. "It seems to me that Manuel has stoked Oban's ambition. It is true that the Cohort cannot influence my father, but perhaps they hope to influence who the next Unseelie King might be. A weak one, that they can influence easily. Oban would be perfect for that." They crested another hill. Mark could see the tower rise in the distance, a black thorn piercing the blue sky. He had flown over the Unseelie Tower with the Wild Hunt, but he had never been inside. He had never wanted to go. "Why would Manuel think that there would be a new Unseelie King anytime soon? Your father has been King for so long no one can remember what King Bram looked like." Kieran glanced at the tower. A fresh burst of laughter came from Oban and the others ahead. "Perhaps it is because the people are angry with my father. I hear things from Adaon. There are whispers of discontent. That the King has brought this blight down upon our land. That his obsession with Shadowhunters has left his people divided and impoverished. The elder faeries of Unseelie have mistrusted him since the disappearance of the First Heir. They feel that the King did not try hard enough to find her." Mark was startled. "The First Heir was a girl? I thought that the King murdered all his female children." Kieran didn't say anything. Mark recalled the last time they had faced the King in Faerie, when Mark had come with Emma and Julian and Cristina to save Kieran from the Lord of Shadows. Things were different now. He flashed back suddenly to the clearing, awakening to see Cristina and Kieran in each other's arms, just before the guards had come. "Why did you kiss Cristina?" Mark said quietly. "If you did it to upset me or make me jealous, that was a terrible thing to do to her." Kieran turned to him with surprise. "It was not to upset you or make you jealous, Mark." "She likes you," Mark said. He had known it for some time but had never spoken the words aloud before. Kieran flushed. "That is very strange to me. I do not deserve it." "I am not sure I deserve her fondness either," said Mark. "Perhaps she does not bestow her heart with the care she should." He glanced down at his bleeding wrists. "Do not hurt her." "I could not," said Kieran. "I would not. And I am sorry, Mark, if you were jealous. I had not intended that." "It is all right," Mark said with a kind of puzzlement, as if he were surprised at the truth. "I wasn't jealous." Not of either of you. How is that possible? The shadow of the tower fell over them, darkening the ground where they stood. The air seemed suddenly colder. In front of them, the massive thorned hedge that ringed the tower rose up like a wall of spikes. White bones hung from the thorny spikes, as they had hung for hundreds of years. It had been a long, long time since a warrior had challenged the wall. And Mark could not remember ever having heard of one who had done so and lived. "Mark," Kieran whispered. Mark took a step forward and nearly stumbled; the chain connecting them to the horses lay limp on the ground. Oban and the others had paused in the archway of the enormous gates that were the only way through the thorn hedge. Kieran reached for Mark and caught at his shoulder with his manacled hands. His lips were cracked and bleeding. He stared into Mark's eyes with a look of terrible pleading. Mark forgot their strange discussion about Cristina, forgot everything but Kieran's pain and his own desire to protect him. "Mark," Kieran breathed. "I have to warn you. We will walk the path of punishment to the tower. I have seen this happen to others. It is--I cannot--" "Kieran. It will be all right." "No." Kieran shook his head wildly enough to make his dark-blue hair fly around his head. "My father will have lined the path to the tower with the gentry. They will scream at us. They will throw rocks and stones. It's how my father wants it. He threatened me with it after Iarlath's death. Now I am responsible for Erec's death as well. There will be no mercy for me." He choked on his words. "I am sorry you have to be here for this." Feeling strangely calm, Mark said, "Isn't it better to have me with you?" "No," Kieran said, and in his eyes Mark thought he saw the ocean, black and silver under the moon. Distant and untouchable. Beautiful and everlasting. "Because I love you." The world seemed to rush away into silence. "But I thought--you said we would be done with each other." "I am not done with you," said Kieran. "I could never be done with you, Mark Blackthorn." Mark's whole body hummed with surprise. He barely registered it when they began to move forward again, until Kieran's grip slid from his shoulder. Reality came rushing back in, a smacking wave: He heard Kieran suck in his breath, steeling himself for the worst as they passed through the gates after Oban and the others. Their chains rattled over the cobblestones of the path that led from the gates to the doors of the tower, an obscenely loud noise. The courtyard on either side was packed with Unseelie faeries. Some carried stones, while some held whips made of thorny vines. Fumbling slightly, twisting his wrist against the manacles, Mark managed to take Kieran's hand in his. "We will go forward without fear," he said in a low voice. "For I am a Shadowhunter, and you are the son of a King." Kieran threw him a grateful look. A moment later they were moving along the path, and the crowd, bearing their whips and stones, had flanked them on either side. Mark raised his head. They would not see a Shadowhunter cringe in fear or pain. Beside him, Kieran had straightened his back; his expression was haughty, his body braced. Braced--for blows that did not come. As Mark and Kieran walked between the rows of faeries, they stood as still as statues, their rocks unthrown, their whips unmoving. The only sound came from Oban and his guards, their muttering rising in the silent air. Oban twisted to the side, his angry gaze raking the crowd. "Bestir yourselves, imbeciles!" he shouted. "Don't you know what you're supposed to be doing? These are murderers! They killed Iarlath! They murdered Prince Erec!" A murmur went through the crowd, but it wasn't an angry murmur. Mark thought he heard Erec's name spoken in anger, and Kieran's with much more gentleness; Kieran himself was looking around in great surprise. And still the crowd did not move. Instead, as Kieran and Mark moved through and among them, voices began to rise. Mark listened incredulously as each told a story. He gave me bread when I was starving by the side of the road. He intervened when the King's redcaps had taken my farm. He saved my husband from execution. He took responsibility for a crime my child committed. He tried to save my mother from the Riders of Mannan. And for his kindness, the King sent him to the Wild Hunt. Oban whipped around, his face twisted in rage. Manuel laid his hand on Oban's shoulder; he leaned in and whispered in the prince's ear. Oban subsided, looking furious. Kieran looked at Mark in astonishment, his lips half-parted. "I do not understand," he whispered. "They hate your father," said Mark. "But I do not think they hate you." They had reached the steps of the tower. They paused as Oban and the others dismounted. There was a flash of movement in the crowd. A small faerie child, a girl with her hair in ribbons and bare feet, slipped from among the other fey folk and darted up to Kieran. She pressed something shyly into his hand. "For your kindness, Prince Kieran." "What was that?" Mark asked as Kieran closed his hand around the object. But the guards had already surrounded them and were pushing them toward the doors of the tower, and Kieran did not answer. As Diana flew with Gwyn over Brocelind, smoke furled up from the forest below like gray-and-black fingers unclosing against the sky. The Cohort had burned the blighted areas, but haphazardly--Diana could see the smoking stumps of trees, but the gray-black ashy land stretched out even farther than it had before, and some patches seemed untouched by fire. Diana looked on in dismay. What did the Cohort think they were doing? They landed and Gwyn helped Diana down from Orion's back. Jia was waiting for them anxiously. Diana ran to her. "I heard you had news about Emma and Julian. Are they all right? Have they been sent back to L.A.?" Jia hesitated. She was looking thin and drawn, her skin papery and gray. "They have not. No." Relief flowed through Diana: So Emma and Julian were still in Alicante. "I was so worried at the meeting," she said. "What Horace is doing to Diego and the others is unthinkable. Blaming them for crimes and sealing their mouths shut so they can't speak for themselves. It made me almost glad Emma and Julian are sequestered in that house--" "Diana. No," Jia said. She laid a thin hand on Diana's wrist; Gwyn had come up and was listening quietly, his grizzled head tipped to one side. "A Clave member, someone loyal to me, overheard Zara talking to Manuel. She says that Horace sent Emma and Julian to Faerie on a suicide mission. I had my people check the house, and it's empty. They aren't here, Diana. They were sent to Faerie." It was a soft explosion inside her head: rage, fury, anger at herself--she'd known something was wrong, had felt it. Why hadn't she trusted her instincts? "Gwyn," she said, her voice barely recognizable in her own ears. "Take me to Faerie. Now." Jia gripped Diana's wrist. "Diana, think. Faerie is a huge land--we don't know where they might be--" "Gwyn and his people are hunters," said Diana. "We will find them. Gwyn She turned to him, but he had stiffened all over, like a fox scenting hounds. "'Ware!" he cried, and whipped an ax from the scabbard on his back. The trees rustled; Jia and Diana barely had time to draw their own weapons when the Cohort burst into the clearing, led by Zara Dearborn, brandishing a glittering sword. A glittering sword that Diana knew. With a feeling as if she had swallowed a lump of ice, Diana recognized Cortana. Jessica Beausejours was with Zara, along with Anush Joshi, Timothy Rockford, and Amelia Overbeck. Zara, in her Centurion uniform, grinned in triumph. "I knew it! I knew we would catch you conspiring with Downworlders!" Gwyn raised an eyebrow. "There is only one Downworlder here." Zara ignored him. "I expected no better of you, Diana Wrayburn, but Consul Penhallow? Violating the Cold Peace in your own homeland? How could you?" Jia held her curved dao across her chest. "Spare me the dramatics, Zara," she said in clipped tones. "You don't understand what's happening, and your tantrums cause nothing but trouble." "We're not conspiring with faeries, Zara," Diana said. Zara spat on the ground. It was a startling gesture in its savage contempt. "How dare you deny that you are conspiring when we've caught you red- handed?" "Zara--" "Don't bother," Jia said to Diana. "She and the Cohort won't listen to you. They only hear what they want to hear. They accept nothing that contradicts the beliefs they already hold." Zara turned to her followers. "Take them into custody," she said. "We will bring them to the Gard." Gwyn threw his ax. It was a gesture so sudden that Diana leaped back in surprise; the ax sailed over the heads of the Cohort and slammed into the trunk of an oak tree. Several members of the Cohort screamed as the tree crashed over with the deafening roar of snapping branches and shattering earth. Gwyn extended his hand, and the ax flew back into his grip. He bared his teeth at the cowering Shadowhunters. "Stay back, or I shall cut you to pieces!" "See!" Zara had fallen to her knees when the tree had collapsed; she struggled up now, clutching Cortana tightly. "See? A conspiracy! We must fight-- Anush!" But Anush had fled into the bushes. The others, visibly shaken, reluctantly grouped around Zara as she took several determined steps toward Gwyn. "What will he do?" Jia said in a quiet voice. "He will kill them all. He's the Wild Hunt's leader, they are nothing to him." "They are children," Jia said. "Poor Anush fled. He is only sixteen." Diana hesitated. They ruere only children--hateful children, but Gwyn could not strike them down. It was no solution. She ran to him, heedless of what the Cohort would think, and spoke in his ear. "Leave us," she whispered. "Please. They will take us to the Gard, but it will not be for long. You must go after Emma and Julian." Gwyn turned to her, concern plain on his face. "But you--" "Find them for me," Diana said. "I will be safe!" She whistled. "Orion!" Orion cantered into the clearing, cutting between the Cohort and Gwyn. Gwyn clambered onto his horse's back and leaned down to kiss Diana, holding her face in his hands for a long moment. "Be safe," he said, and Orion lifted into the sky. The Cohort were all shouting: Most had never seen anything like a steed of the Wild Hunt before. They really were children, Diana thought wearily: They still had wonder in them, mixed with their ignorance and hate. And she could not hurt children. She stood quietly beside Jia as Zara and Timothy relieved them of their weapons and chained their hands behind their backs. With their invisibility potions gone, Emma and Julian had to rely on staying in the shadows, hoods up, as they crept along the corridors of the tower. Luckily, it seemed as if everyone had been summoned to some kind of event --the crowds had thinned out, and there were fewer Unseelie fey hurrying to and fro along the corridors. The guards seemed distracted as well, and no one questioned them as they slipped around the turn of a corridor and found themselves in front of the hanging tapestry with its pattern of stars. Emma glanced around, concerned. "The guards are gone." The corridor was, in fact, empty. Emma's nerves tingled. Something wasn't right. "Good," Julian said. "Maybe they took a break or something." "I don't like it," Emma said. "They wouldn't leave Ash unguarded." "The guards might be inside the room." "This doesn't feel right--" "Someone's coming." Indeed, there were footsteps in the distance. Julian's face was tight with tension. "Emma, we have to move." Against her better judgment, Emma drew a shortsword from her belt and slipped past the tapestry after Julian. The room beyond was silent, eerily so, and empty of guards. Emma's first impression was of a place both richly decorated and very cold. A large four- poster bed carved of a single massive piece of wood dominated the space. Tapestries hung from the walls, depicting exquisite scenes of natural beauty in Faerie--forests wreathed in mist, tumbling glacial waterfalls, wildflowers growing on cliffs above the sea. Emma could not help but think about the blight. The tapestries were stunning, a loving ode to the beauty of Faerie, but outside these walls the true Lands of Unseelie were being consumed by the blight. Had the King decorated this space? Did he see the irony of it? Julian had placed himself by the tapestry door, his sword unsheathed. He was looking around curiously--it was hard not to notice the clothes strewn everywhere. Apparently Ash, like most teenage boys, was something of a slob. A window had been wedged open and cold air drifted through. Ash's golden crown had been dumped on the windowsill, almost as if he were daring a magpie to steal it. Emma crept over to the bed where Ash lay, a still figure under a richly embroidered coverlet. His eyes were closed, perfect half circles fringed with silvery lashes. He looked innocent, angelic. Emma's heart went out to him-- surprising, considering his resemblance to Sebastian. But it wasn't an exact duplication, she saw, stepping closer, so that her shadow fell over the bed. "He looks a little like Clary," she whispered. "It doesn't matter what he looks like," Julian said. "He's Sebastian's son." He's a child, she wanted to protest, but she knew it wouldn't matter. She reached out to place a tentative hand on the boy's shoulder; as she did, she saw that there was a wide scar on the side of Ash's throat, no longer hidden by the collar of his shirt, in the shape of an X. There were odd markings on the wall behind his bed too: They looked like runes, but twisted and sinister runes, like the ones the Endarkened had worn. A ferocious desire to protect him rose up in her, startling in both its strength and its complete lack of logic. She didn't even know this boy, she thought, but she couldn't stop herself from reaching over to shake him gently. "Ash," she whispered. "Ash, wake up. We're here to rescue you." His eyes flew open, and she truly saw Clary in him then; they were the same color green as hers. They fixed on Emma as he sat up, reaching out a hand. They were steady and clear and a thought flashed through her head: He could he a true leader, not like Sebastian, hut like Sebastian should have been. Across the room, Julian was shaking his head. "Emma, no," he said. "What are you--" Ash jerked his hand back and shouted: " Ethna! Eochaid! Riders, help me!" Julian whirled toward the door, but the two Riders had already torn through the tapestry. Their bronze armor shone like blinding sunlight; Julian struck out with his blade, slashing it across the front of Eochaid's chest, but the Rider pivoted away. Ethna's metallic hair flew around her as she launched herself at Julian with a scream of rage. He raised his sword but wasn't fast enough; she crashed into him, seizing Julian and smashing him against the wall. Ash rolled away across the coverlet; Emma seized him and yanked him back, her fingers sinking into his shoulder. She felt as if she'd emerged from a fog: dizzy, breathless, and suddenly very, very angry. "Stop!" she shouted. "Let Julian go or I'll cut the prince's throat." Ethna looked up with a snarl; she was standing over Julian, her blade out. He was crouched with his back against the wall, a trickle of blood running from his temple. His eyes were watchful. "Do not be a fool," said Eochaid. "Do you not understand that your only chance to live is letting the prince go?" Emma pressed the blade closer against Ash's throat. He was like a taut wire in her grip. Protect Ash, whispered a voice in the back of her head. Ash is what matters. She bit down on her lip, the pain whiting out the voice in her head. "Explain yourself, Rider." "We are in the tower," said Ethna in a tone of disgust. "We cannot slay you without the King's permission. He would be angered. But if you were threatening Ash . . ." Her look was hungry. "Then we would have no choice but to protect him." Julian wiped blood from his face. "She's right. They can't kill us. Let Ash go, Emma." Ash was looking fixedly at Julian. "You look like her" he said with surprise. Puzzled, Emma hesitated, and Ash took the opportunity to sink his teeth into her hand. She yelled and let go of him; a circle of bleeding dents marked the curve of her thumb and forefinger. "Why?" she demanded. "You're a prisoner here. Don't you want to leave?" Ash was crouched on the bed, an odd feral scowl on his face. He was fully dressed in breeches, a linen tunic, and boots. "In Alicante I would be the son of your most hated enemy. You would take me to my death." "It isn't like that--" Emma began, but she didn't finish; her head flew back as Ethna delivered a stinging slap to her cheek. "Cease your yammering," said Eochaid. Emma turned back once to look at Ash as she and Julian were marched from the room at sword point. He stood in the middle of the chamber, looking after them; his face was blank, without Sebastian's haughtiness and cruelty--but without Clary's kindness, either. He looked like someone who had pulled off a successful chess move. Neither Julian nor Emma spoke as they were marched along the corridors, the fey folk around them murmuring and staring. The corridors gave way soon to danker and danker hallways angling more steeply down. As the light dimmed, Emma caught a brief look at the expression of frustration and bitterness on Julian's face before the shadows clustered and she could see only moving shapes in the occasional weak illumination of green bough torches hanging on the walls. "It seems almost a pity," said Eochaid, breaking the silence as they reached a long, serpentine hall that led to a dark hole in a distant wall. Emma could see the glimmer of guard uniforms even in the dark. "To kill these two before they can witness the destruction of the Nephilim." "Nonsense," said Ethna curtly. "Blood for blood. They murdered our brother. Perhaps the King will let us swing the scythe that ends them." They had reached the hole in the far wall. It was a doorway without a door, cut into a thick wall of stone. The guards on either side seemed intrigued. "More prisoners?" said the one on the left, who was lounging atop a massive wooden chest. "Captives of the King," said Ethna in a clipped voice. "Practically a party," said the guard, and chuckled. "Not that they stay long, mind." Ethna rolled her eyes and hustled Emma forward with the prick of the sword between her shoulder blades. She and Julian were ushered into a wide, square room with rough-hewn stone walls. Vines grew from the ceiling, ribboning down to plunge into the hard-packed dirt floor. They wove closely together into the shape of boxes--cells, Emma realized: cells whose walls were made out of thorny vines, hard as flexible iron. She remembered those thorns stabbing into her, and shuddered. Ethna laughed unpleasantly. "Shiver all you want," she said. "There is no escape here, and no pity." She took Emma's weapons belt from her waist and forced her to remove the Clave's gold medallion from her throat. Emma cast Julian a panicked look--nothing would prevent them from suffering the time slippage in Faerie now. Furious, Emma was shoved into a cell through a gap in the vines. To her relief, Julian followed a moment later. She had been afraid they would be separated and that she would go out of her mind alone. He was also weaponless. He turned to glare at the Riders as Ethna tapped the end of her sword against the cage; the vines that had parted quickly slithered and twisted together, closing up any possibility of an exit. Ethna was grinning. The look of triumph on her face made Emma's stomach twist acidly. "Little Shadowhunters," she crooned. "What does all your angel blood avail you now?" "Come, sister," said Eochaid, though he was smiling indulgently. "The King awaits." Ethna spat on the ground before turning to follow her brother. Their footsteps faded away, and there was darkness and silence--cold, pressuring silence. Only a little dim illumination came from smoky torches high up on the walls. The strength left Emma's limbs like water pouring out of a broken dam. She sank to the ground in the center of the cage, cringing away from the thorns all around her. "Julian," she whispered. "What are we going to do?" He dropped to his knees. She could see where goose bumps had risen all over his skin. The bloody bandage around his wrist seemed to glow like a phantom in the dark. "I got us in here," he said. "I'll get us out." Emma opened her mouth to protest, but no words came; it was close enough to the truth. The old Julian, her Julian, would have listened when she'd said she sensed the situation outside Ash's room wasn't right. He would have trusted her instinct. For the first time she felt something close to true mourning for that Julian, as if this Julian wasn't just temporary--as if her Julian might never come back. "Do you care?" she said. "You think I want to die in here?" he said. "I still have a self-preservation instinct, Emma, and that means preserving you, too. And I know--I know I'm a better Shadowhunter than I just was." "Being a Shadowhunter isn't just in fast reflexes or strong muscles." She pressed her hand against his heart, the linen of his shirt soft against her fingers. "It's here." Here where you're broken. His blue-green eyes seemed the only color in the prison; even the vines of their cell were metallic gray. "Emma--" "It is them!" said a voice, and Emma jumped as light flared all around them. And not just any light. White-silver light, radiating from the cell opposite theirs; she could see it now, in the new illumination. Two figures stood inside, staring at them through the vines, and one of them held a glowing rune-stone in her hand. "Witchlight," breathed Julian, rising to his feet. "Julian? Emma?" called the same voice--familiar, and full of surprise and relief. The witchlight grew, and Emma could see the figures in the opposite cell clearly now. She bolted upright with astonishment. "It's us--it's Jace and Clary." <|title|>Chapter 16: A Thousand Thrones <|startofchapter|>Oban and his guards had led Mark and Kieran blindfolded through the tower, so if there were more reactions to Kieran's presence, Mark had been unable to note them. He had, however, heard Manuel and Oban laughing about what the King was likely to do to Kieran, and to Mark as well, and he had struggled against his manacles in rage. How dare they speak that way when Kieran could hear them? Why would anyone take pleasure in such torture? They had been led finally to a windowless stone room and left there, their hands still manacled. Oban had torn their blindfolds from them as he walked out of the room, laughing. "Look one last time upon each other before you die." And Mark did look at Kieran now, in the dim room. Though there were no windows, light filtered down from a grating far above. The room was close, oppressive as the bottom of an elevator shaft. "It is meant to be horrible," Kieran said, answering the question Mark had not asked. "This is where the King keeps prisoners prior to bringing them before the throne. It is meant to terrify." "Kieran." Mark moved closer to the other boy. "It will be all right." Kieran smiled painfully. "That is what I love about mortals," he said. "That you can say such things, for comfort, whether they be true or not." "What did that girl give you?" Mark said. Kieran's hair was blue-black in the shadows. "The little girl, on the steps." "A flower." Kieran's hands were bound in front of him; he opened one and showed Mark the crushed white bloom. "A white daffodil." "Forgiveness," Mark said. Kieran looked at him in puzzlement; his education had not been flower-focused. "Flowers have their own meanings. A white daffodil means forgiveness." Kieran let the flower fall from his hand. "I heard the words those people said as I went through the courtyard," he said. "And I do not remember." "Do you think your father made you forget?" Mark's hands had begun to ache. "No. I think it did not matter to me. I think I was kind because I was a prince and arrogant and careless and it suited me to be kind, but I could just as easily have been cruel. I do not remember saving a farm or a child. I was drunk on an easy life in those days. I should not be thanked or forgiven." "Kieran--" "And during the Hunt, I thought only of myself." White threads shot through Kieran's dark hair. He let his head fall back against the stone wall. "No," said Mark. "You thought of me. You were kind to me." "I wanted you," Kieran said, a hard twist to his mouth. "I was kind to you because it benefited me in the end." Mark shook his head. "When mortals say that things will be all right, it is not only for comfort," he said. "In part it is because we do not, as faeries do, believe in an absolute truth. We bring our own truth to the world. Because I believe things will be all right, I will be less unhappy and afraid. And because you are angry at yourself, you believe that everything you have done, you have done out of selfishness." "I have been selfish," Kieran protested. "I--" "We are all selfish sometimes," said Mark. "And I am not saying you have nothing to atone for. Perhaps you were a selfish prince, but you were not a cruel one. You had power and you chose to use it to be kind. You could have chosen the opposite. Do not dismiss the choices you made. They were not meaningless." "Why do you try to comfort and cheer me?" Kieran said in a dry voice, as if his throat ached. "I was angry with you when you agreed to return to your family from the Hunt--I told you none of it was real--" "As if I did not know why you said that," said Mark. "I heard you, in the Hunt. When they whipped you, when you were tormented, you would whisper to yourself that none of it was real. As if to say the pain was all a dream. It was a gift you meant to give me--the gift of escaping agony, of retreating into a place in your mind where you were safe." "I thought the Shadowhunters were cruel. I thought they would hurt you," said Kieran. "With you, with your family, I have learned differently. I thought I loved you in the Hunt, Mark, but that was a shadow of what I feel for you now, knowing what loving-kindness you are capable of." The elf-bolt at his throat shone as it rose and fell with his quick breathing. "In the Hunt, you needed me," said Kieran. "You needed me so much I never knew if you would want me, if you did not need me. Do you?" Mark stumbled a little, moving closer to Kieran. His wrists were burning fire, but he didn't care. He pressed close to Kieran, and Kieran's bound hands caught at Mark's waist, fumbling to pull Mark closer to him. His heels lifted off the ground as he leaned into Kieran, the two of them trying to get as close as possible, to comfort each other despite their bound hands. Mark buried his face in the crook of Kieran's neck, breathing in his familiar scent: grass and sky. Perhaps this was the last grass and sky he would ever know. The door to the cell swung open and a burst of light cut at Mark's eyes. He felt Kieran go tense against him. Winter, the redcap general, stood in the doorway, his shirt and cap the color of rusty old blood, his iron-soled boots clanging on the stone floor. In his hand was a long, steel-tipped pike. "Move apart, the both of you," he said, voice clipped. "The King will see you now." Emma flew to the front of the cell--and remembered the thorns just in time, leaping back from touching them. Julian followed with a greater hesitation. "Oh, thank the Angel you're here," said Emma. "I mean, not that you're here, in prison, that's bad, but--" She threw up her hands. "I'm glad to see you." Clary chuckled wanly. "We know what you mean. I'm glad to see you, too." Her face was smudged and dirty, her red hair tied up in a knot at the back of her head. In the light of the rune-stone, Emma could see that she looked a little thin; her dirt-stained jean jacket hung loose around her shoulders. Jace, behind her, was tall and golden as ever, his eyes bright-burning in the dimness, his chin shadowed with rough beard. "What are you doing here?" he said, dispensing with pleasantries. "Were you in Faerie? Why?" "We were on a mission," said Julian. Clary ducked her face down. "Please don't tell me it was to find us." "It was to find the Black Volume of the Dead. The Inquisitor sent us." Jace looked incredulous. "Robert sent you here?" Emma and Julian glanced at each other. There was an awful silence. Jace moved closer to the thorned bars of the cage that held him and Clary. "Whatever you're not telling us, don't hold it back," he said. "If something happened, you need to let us know." Perhaps not surprisingly, it was Julian who spoke. "Robert Lightwood is dead." The witchlight blinked out. In the darkness, with her Night Vision rune useless, Emma could see nothing. She heard Jace make a muffled noise, and Clary whispering. Words of comfort, words of soothing--Emma was sure of it. She recognized herself, murmuring to Julian in the quiet of night. The whispering stopped, and the witchlight flickered back on. Jace was holding it in one hand, his other wrapped tightly around one of the vines. Blood ran from between his fingers, down his arm. Emma imagined the thorns stabbing into his palm and winced. "What about everyone else?" he said in a voice so tight it was barely human. "What about Alec?" Emma moved closer to the front of the cell. "He's fine," she said, and filled them in as quickly as she could on what had happened, from Annabel's murder of Robert and Livvy to Horace's ascension as Inquisitor. There was a silence when she was done, but at least Jace had let go of the vine. "I'm so sorry about your sister," Clary said softly. "I'm sorry we weren't there." Julian said nothing. "There isn't anything you could have done," said Emma. "The King is close to getting the Black Volume," said Jace. He opened and closed his bloody hand. "This is really bad news." "But you didn't come here for that," said Julian. "You came here to find Ash. He's the weapon you're looking for, right?" Clary nodded. "We got a tip-off from the Spiral Labyrinth that there was a weapon in Faerie that the Unseelie King had access to, something that could nullify Shadowhunter powers." "We were sent here because of our angelic blood. Rumors of the ineffectiveness of Shadowhunter magic in the Courts were swirling; the Silent Brothers said we would be more resistant to the effects," said Jace. "We don't suffer from time slippage here, and we can use runes--or at least we could, before they took our steles away. At least we still have these." He held up the glowing witchlight, pulsing in his hand. "So we knew we were looking for something," said Clary. "But not that it was my--that it was Ash." "How did you figure it out?" said Emma. "We found out pretty early on that the King had kidnapped the Seelie Queen's son," said Jace. "It's something of an open secret in the Courts. And then the first time Clary saw him--from a distance, we were captured before we ever got close--" Clary moved restlessly inside the cell. "I knew who he was right away. He looks exactly like my brother." Emma had heard Julian and Livvy and Mark and Dru say the words "my brother" more times than she could count. It had never sounded the way it did when Clary said it: imbued with bitterness and regret. "And now the King has the Black Volume, which means we have hardly any time," said Jace, brushing his hand lightly across the back of Clary's neck. "Okay," said Julian. "What exactly does the King plan to do with the Black Volume to make Ash a weapon?" Jace lowered his voice, though Emma doubted anyone could hear them. "There are spells in the Black Volume that would imbue Ash with certain powers. The King did something like this once before--" "Have you heard of the First Heir?" said Clary. "Yes," Emma said. "Kieran mentioned him--or at least mentioned the story." "It was something his brother Adaon told him." Julian was frowning. "Kieran said his father had wanted the book since the First Heir was stolen. Maybe to raise the child from the dead? But what does that have to do with Ash?" "It's an old story," said Jace. "But as you know--all the stories are true." "Or at least true in part." Clary smiled up at him. Emma felt a spark of longing--even in the darkness and cold of this prison, their love was undamaged. Clary turned back to Julian and Emma. "We learned that long ago the Unseelie King and the Seelie Queen decided to unite the Courts. Part of their plan involved having a child together, a child who would be heir to both Courts. But that wasn't enough for them--they wanted to create a faerie child so powerful that he could destroy the Nephilim." "Before the child was born, they used rites and spells to give the child 'gifts,'" said Jace. "Think Sleeping Beauty but the parents are the wicked faeries." "The child would be perfectly beautiful, a perfect leader, inspiring of perfect loyalty," said Clary. "But when the child was born, she was a girl. It had never even occurred to the King that the child wouldn't be male--being who he is, he thought the perfect leader had to be a man. The King was furious and thought that the Queen had betrayed him. The Queen, in turn, was furious that he wanted to abandon their whole plan just because the child was a girl. Then the child was kidnapped, and possibly murdered." "No wonder--all that stuff about the King hating daughters," Emma mused. "What do you mean 'possibly'?" said Julian. Jace said, "We weren't able to find out what happened to that child. No one knows--the claim of the King was that she was kidnapped and murdered, but it seems likely she escaped Faerie and lived on." He shrugged. "What's clear is that Ash has mixed in him the blood of royal faeries, the blood of the Nephilim, and the blood of demons. The King believes he's the perfect candidate to finish what they began with the First Heir." "The end of all Shadowhunters," Julian said slowly. "The blight the King has already brought here has been taking hold slowly," Clary said. "But if the King is allowed to perform the spells he wants to on Ash, Ash will become a weapon even more powerful than the blight. We don't even know everything he'll be able to do, but he'll have the same mixture of seraphic and infernal blood that Sebastian did." "He'd be demonic, but impervious to runes or angelic magic," said Jace. "He could bear runes, but nothing demonic could hurt him. The touch of his hands could make the blight spread like wildfire." "The blight is already in Idris," said Emma. "Parts of Brocelind Forest have been destroyed." "We need to get back," Clary said. She looked even paler than she had before, and younger. Emma remembered Clary on the roof at the L.A. Institute. Knowing something awful is coming. Like a wall of darkness and blood. A shadow that spreads out over the world and blots out everything. "We can't wait any longer," Jace said. "We have to get out of here." "I'm guessing that wishing to get out of here hasn't worked so far, since you're still imprisoned," said Julian. Jace narrowed his eyes. "Julian," Emma said. She wanted to add sorry, he has no feelings of empathy, but she didn't because at that moment she heard a shout, followed by a loud thump. Jace closed his hand over his witchlight, and in the near-total darkness, Emma backed away from the walls of the cage. She didn't want to accidentally walk face-first into the stabbing thorns. There was a grinding sound as the door of the prison swung open. "Probably guards," said Clary in a low voice. Emma stared into the shadowy dimness. There were two figures coming toward them; she could see the gold glint of the braid on guard uniforms. "One's carrying a sword," Emma whispered. "They're probably coming for us," Clary said. "We've been down here longer." "No," Julian said. Emma knew what he was thinking. Jace and Clary were valuable hostages, in their way. Emma and Julian were Shadowhunter thieves who had killed a Rider. They would not be left in the dungeons to languish. They would be beheaded quickly for the enjoyment of the Court. "Fight back," Jace said urgently. "If they open your cell, fight back--" Cortana, Emma thought in desperation. Cortana! But nothing happened. There was no sudden and comforting weight in her hand. Only a pressure against her shoulder; Julian had moved to stand next to her. Weaponless, they faced the front of their cell. There was the sound of a gasp, then running feet--Emma raised her fists-- The smaller of the guards reached their cell and grabbed at one of the vines, then yelped in pain. A voice murmured something in a faerie language, and the torches along the walls burst into dim flame. Emma found herself staring through the tangle of vines and thorns at Cristina, wearing the livery of a faerie guard, a longsword strapped across her back. "Emma?" Cristina breathed, her eyes wide. "What on earth are you doing here?" Watch over Tiberius. Kit was doing just that. Or at least he was staring at Ty, which seemed close enough. They were on the beach below the Institute; Ty had taken off his socks and shoes and was walking at the edge of the water. He glanced up at Kit, who was sitting on a rise of sand, and beckoned him closer. "The water isn't that cold!" he called. "I promise." I believe you, Kit wanted to say. He always believed Ty. Ty wasn't a liar unless he had to be, though he was good at hiding things. He wondered what would happen if Helen asked them both straight-out if they were trying to raise Livvy from the dead. Maybe he would be the one who told the truth. After all, he was the one who didn't really want to do it. Kit rose slowly to his feet and walked down the beach to join Ty. The waves were breaking at least twenty feet out; by the time they reached the shoreline they were white foam and silver water. A surge splashed up and over Ty's bare feet and soaked Kit's sneakers. Ty had been right. It wasn't all that cold. "So tomorrow we'll go to the Shadow Market," said Ty. The moonlight played delicate shadows over his face. He seemed calm, Kit thought, and realized that it had been a long time since he hadn't felt like Ty was a tightly strung wire, thrumming by his side. "You hated the Shadow Market in London," Kit said. "It really bothered you. The noises, and the crowd--" Ty's gaze flicked down to Kit. "I'll wear my headphones. I'll be all right." ".. . and I don't know if we should go again so soon," Kit added. "What if Helen and Aline get suspicious?" Ty's gray gaze darkened. "Julian told me once," he said, "that when people keep coming up with reasons not to do something, it's because they don't want to do it. Do you not want to do this? The spell, everything?" Ty's voice sounded tight. The thrumming wire again, sharp with tension. Under the cotton of his shirt, his thin shoulders had tightened as well. The neck of his shirt was loose, the delicate line of his collarbones just visible. Kit felt a rush of tenderness toward Ty, mixed with near panic. In other circumstances, he thought, he would just have lied. But he couldn't lie to Ty. He splashed farther into the water, until his jeans were wet to below his knees. He turned around, the foam of the surf splashing around him. "Didn't you hear what Shade said? The Livvy we get back might not be anything like our Livvy. Your Livvy." Ty followed him out into the water. Mist was coming down to touch the water, surrounding them in white and gray. "If we do the spell correctly, she will be. That's all. We have to do it right." Kit could taste salt on his mouth. "I don't know..." Ty reached out a hand, sweeping his arm toward the horizon, where the stars were beginning to fade into the mist. The horizon was a black line smudged with silver. "Livvy is out there," he said. "Just past where I can reach her, but I can hear her. She says my name. She wants me to bring her back. She needs me to bring her back." The corner of Ty's mouth trembled. "I don't want to do it without you. But I will." Kit took another step into the ocean and paused. The deeper he went, the colder it got. And wasn't that the case with everything, he thought. There are many ways to he endangered by magic. I could walk away, he said to himself. I could let Ty do this on his own. But I cant tell myself that it wouldn't he the end of our friendship, because it would. I'd end up locked out of Ty's plans, just like Helen, just like Dru.Just like everyone else. It felt like the air was being choked out of his lungs. He spun back toward Ty. "Okay. I'll do it. We can go to the Shadow Market tomorrow." Ty smiled. Or perhaps it would be more accurate to say that a smile broke across his face, like the sun rising. Kit stood breathless, the water receding around him, as Ty came up and put his arms around Kit's neck. He remembered holding Ty on the roof of the Institute in London, but that had been because Ty was panicking. It had been like holding a wild animal. This was Ty hugging him because he wanted to. The soft cotton of Ty's shirt, the feeling of Ty's hair brushing against his cheek as he hid his expression from Ty by burrowing his face against the other boy's shoulder. He could hear Ty breathing. He threaded his arms around Ty, crossing his cold hands over Ty's back. When Ty leaned into him with a sigh, he felt like he'd won a race he didn't know he was running. "Don't worry," Ty said quietly. "We're going to get her back. I promise." That's what I'm afraid of. But Kit said nothing aloud. He held on to Ty, sick with a miserable happiness, and closed his eyes against the prying light of the moon. "We are here to help you," said Cristina's companion. Emma recognized him, belatedly: Prince Adaon, one of the Unseelie King's sons. She had seen him the last time she was in Faerie. He was a tall faerie knight in the colors of Unseelie, handsome and dark-skinned, two daggers at his waist. He reached out to grasp the vines of their cell, which parted under his touch. Emma wriggled out through them and flung her arms around Cristina. "Cristina," she said. "You beautiful badass, you." Cristina smiled and patted Emma's back while Adaon freed Julian and then Jace and Clary. Jace was the last to slip through the vines. He raised an eyebrow at Julian. "What were you saying about wishing to be rescued?" he said. "We cannot stay here long," said Adaon. "There will come others, guards and knights alike." He glanced up and down the row of cells, frowning. "Where are they?" "Where are who?" said Emma, letting go of Cristina reluctantly. "Mark and Kieran," said Cristina. "Where are Mark and Kieran?" "I came here to rescue my brother, not empty the palace's prisons of criminals," said Adaon, who Emma was beginning to think might not be the world's most jolly person. "We're very appreciative of your efforts," said Clary. She had noticed Emma was shivering with cold. She took off her denim jacket and handed it to Emma with a gentle pat on her shoulder. Emma slipped the jacket on, too cold and tired and hurt to protest. "But-- why would Mark and Kieran be here? Why are you here, Cristina?" Adaon had begun to stride up and down the line of cells, peering into each one. Cristina looked around nervously. "Mark, Kieran, and I heard that Dearborn sent you on a suicide mission," she said to Emma and Julian. "We came to help you." "But Mark isn't with you?" said Julian, who had snapped to attention at the sound of his brother's name. "Did you get separated here? Inside the tower?" "No. They were kidnapped on the road, by the worst of my brothers," said Adaon, who had returned from his search of the cells. "Cristina came to me for help. I knew Oban would have brought Mark and Kieran here, but I thought they would be in the prison." His mouth set in grim lines. "Oban was always overeager. He must have taken them straight to my father instead." "You mean to the throne room?" said Emma, slightly dizzy with the suddenness with which things were happening. "Yes," said Adaon. "To the King. They would be valuable prizes, and Oban would be eager to collect." "They'll kill Kieran," Cristina said, a thin thread of panic in her voice. "He already escaped execution once. They'll kill Mark, too." "Then we'd better get there and prevent it," said Jace. Under the dirt and the beard, he was starting to look more like the Jace Emma had always known, the one she had once wanted to be like--the best warrior of all the Shadowhunters. "Now." Adaon gave him a scornful look. "It's too dangerous for you, Nephilim." "You came here for your brother," Julian said, his eyes blazing. "We're going after mine. If you want to stop us, you'll have to use force." "We should all go together," Clary said. "The more of us there are, the more easily we can defeat the King." "But you are powerless here, Nephilim," said Adaon. "No," Jace said, and the witchlight blazed up in his hand, light spearing through his fingers. They all stood bathed in its white light. Cristina stared with her mouth open; Adaon betrayed shock the way faeries usually did, by moving one or two facial muscles slightly. "Very well," he said coolly. "But I will not risk being caught by the guards wandering the tower openly, like fools. All of you walk before me. You will behave as my prisoners now." "You want us to act like prisoners being marched to the King?" said Julian, who didn't look delighted at the thought. "I want you to look afraid," said Adaon, drawing his sword and motioning for them to get in front of him. "Because you should be." Diana had expected to be locked in a cell in the Gard's prisons, but instead she was brought to a surprisingly luxurious room. A Turkish rug covered the floor and a fire burned high in a carved stone fireplace. Deep velvet armchairs were pulled up to the fire; she sat in one, stiff with tension, and stared out the picture window at the rooftops of Idris. Her mind was full of Gwyn, and of Emma and Julian. What if she had sent Gwyn into danger? Why had she assumed he would travel to Faerie to find two Shadowhunters only because she had asked? As for Emma and Julian, two words circled in her head like sharks, over and over. Suicide mission. Horace Dearborn entered, carrying a silver tray with a tea service on it. Now I've seen it all, Diana thought as he sat down and settled the tray on a small table between them. "Diana Wrayburn," he said. "I've been meaning to have a private conversation with you for a long time." "You could have invited me to the Gard at any time. You didn't need to have me arrested in the woods." He sighed deeply. "I'm sorry it had to happen like that, but you were consorting with faeries and breaking the Cold Peace. Understand, I like a woman with spirit." His gaze slid over her in a way that made her feel like shuddering. She crossed her arms over her chest. "Where's Jia?" Horace picked up the teapot and began to pour. Every move was measured and calm. "By the will of the Council, the Consul is under house arrest for the time being, until her connection with faeries is investigated." It wasn't really a surprise, but it still felt like a blow. "Don't tell me. Her trial will be held as soon as the Mortal Sword is 'reforged,'" Diana said bitterly. He bobbed his head enthusiastically. "Exactly, exactly." He set the teapot down. "An unfortunate situation. And one you could find yourself in--unless you're willing to make a bargain with me." "What kind of bargain?" He handed her a teacup; mechanically, Diana took it. "The next Council meeting will be a difficult one, as the Clave is brought to understand that future decisions must be arrived at without the Consul. A transition of power is always difficult, wouldn't you say?" Diana stared at him stonily. "Let me be clear," Horace said, and though his expression was easy and friendly, there was no friendliness in his eyes. "Take my side at the next Council meeting. You have influence over people. The L.A. Institute, the New York Institute--many Institutes will listen to you. If you back me as the next Consul, a replacement for Penhallow, so will they." "People listen to me because I don't compromise my values," Diana said. "They know when I say something, I believe it. I could never believe you would make a good Consul." "Is that so?" The false friendliness had vanished from his face. "Do you think I care about your values, Diana Wrayburn? You'll stand by my side, because if you don't, I will reveal your secret to the Clave." Diana's throat tightened. "What secret?" Horace rose to his feet, his expression thunderous. "For all your talk of values, I know you have a secret. I know you've refused to become head of the Los Angeles Institute all these years--letting a madman run it--I know you carry a shadow with you, Diana Wrayburn, and I know what it is. I know you submitted yourself to mundane medical treatment in Bangkok." Stunned and furious, Diana was silent. How did he know? Her mind raced: The Clave considered a Shadowhunter who let mundane doctors look at their blood, learn their secrets, a traitor. Never mind that Catarina had covered up all her unusual test results. Horace would blame her anyway. "And let me tell you this," said Horace. "I will use that information to the fullest unless you do as I say. You will be torn from those Blackthorns you love so dearly. Imprisoned, perhaps, alongside other traitors." "Unless what?" Diana said dully. "Unless you agree to stand by my side at the next meeting and declare that Jia is incompetent and that I should be the next Consul. Do you understand?" Diana felt as if she were seeing herself through the wrong end of a telescope, a tiny figure with Horace looming vastly over her. "I understand." "And do you agree to throw your support behind the Cohort?" "Yes." She got to her feet. She was very conscious of her torn and dirty clothes--the Cohort had not been gentle with her or Jia, though they had surrendered quietly. Horace opened his mouth, perhaps to call for the guards to take her away. Moving more swiftly than she would have thought possible, Diana seized the Inquisitor's sword from the belt at his waist and swung it. Horace screamed. He staggered back, still screaming, and fell to his knees; there was blood all over his robes. His arm was hanging at a strange angle. Guards burst into the room, but Diana had already run to the window and thrown it open. She hurled herself onto the roof, skidding nearly to the edge before she arrested her fall by catching at the slate tiles. The guards were at the window. She scrambled to her feet and raced across the roof, looking for an overhang she could swing down from. A shadow passed across the moon, obscuring the demon towers. She heard the sound of hoofbeats, and she knew. As the guards crawled through the window, she hurled herself from the roof. "Diana!" Gwyn banked Orion, turned, reached out to catch her. She landed awkwardly, hurling her arms around his neck. Strong hands wrapped her waist; she glanced back once and saw the pale faces of the guards watching from the roof of the Gard as they sailed into the night. Dru flipped off the TV in the middle of The Deadly Bees, which was unusual because it was one of her favorite bad movies. She'd even bought a pair of gold bee earrings at Venice Beach once so she could wear them while she watched the death-by-stinger scenes. She was too restless to sit still, though. The excitement she'd felt outside the 101 Coffee Shop still prickled the back of her neck. It had been so much fun being teamed up with Kit and Ty, laughing with them, in on their plans. She swung her legs off the sofa and headed barefoot out into the hallway. She'd painted the toenails on one foot acid green, but she didn't feel like sticking around to do the other one. She felt like finding Livvy and curling up with her on her bed, laughing at out-of-date mundane magazines. The pain of remembering Livvy changed from moment to moment; sometimes a dull, aching one, sometimes a sharp flash as of being stuck with a hot needle. If Julian or Emma were here, she could have talked to them about it, or even Mark. As she passed the big staircase leading down to the entryway, she could hear the sound of voices from the Sanctuary. Helen's, friendly and calm, and Aline's, sharp and authoritative. She wondered if she would have gone to either of them even if they hadn't been so busy. Dru couldn't really imagine it. She thought of tonight, though, giggling in the back of the car with Kit and Ty, and the desert wind in her hair. It carried the smell of white oleander even in the center of Hollywood. The night had filled the gnawing urge to do something inside her that she hadn't even realized was there. She reached the twins' bedrooms. Ty and Livvy had always had bedrooms directly across from each other; the door of Livvy's room was shut tight and had been since they'd returned from Idris. Dru laid her hand on it, as if she could feel her sister's heartbeat through the wood. Livvy had painted her door red once, and the flaking paint was rough against Dru's fingers. In a horror movie, Dru thought, this was when Livvy would burst out half- rotted, clawing at Dru with her dead hands. The idea didn't frighten her at all. Maybe that was why she liked horror movies, Dru thought; the dead never stayed dead, and those left behind were too busy wandering unwisely around in the woods to have time to grieve or feel loss. She left Livvy's door and went over to Ty's. She knocked, but there was music playing in the room and she couldn't hear a reply. She pushed the door open and froze. The radio was on, Chopin blasting, but Ty wasn't there. The space was freezing. All the windows were wide open. Dru almost tripped getting across the room to slam the largest window shut. She looked down and saw that Ty's books were scattered over the floor, no longer in neat rows determined by subject and color. His desk chair lay in pieces, his clothes were scattered everywhere, and there were smears of dried blood on his sheets and pillowcases. Ty. Oh, Ty. Dru closed the door as hastily as she could without slamming it, and hurried off down the hallway as if a monster from one of her old movies were chasing her. They stopped outside the prison, where the dead body of the guard lay draped over the wooden chest Emma had noticed earlier. Adaon grimaced and used the tip of his boot to shove the guard's body aside. It hit the bloodstained flagstones with a thump. To Emma's puzzlement, Adaon knelt and shoved the chest open, the hinges groaning and squeaking. Her puzzlement vanished quickly. The chest was full of weapons-- longswords, daggers, bows. Emma recognized the sword the Riders had taken from her, and Julian's as well. She craned her neck to stare, but she didn't see the medallion anywhere among the confiscated items. Adaon seized up a number of swords. Jace held out his hand for one. "Come to papa," he crooned. "I can't believe you have a beard," Emma noted, momentarily diverted. Jace touched his bristly cheek. "Well, it has been a week, at least. I expect it makes me look manly, like a burnished god." "I hate it," said Emma. "I like it," said Clary loyally. "I don't believe you," said Emma. She stuck out her hand toward Adaon. "Give me my sword. Jace can use it to shave." Adaon glared at all of them. "You shall bear no blades. You cannot be armed if you are meant to be prisoners. I will carry the swords." He swung them up over his shoulder as if they were a bunch of kindling. "Now, come." They marched ahead of Adaon, through the now-familiar dank underground corridors. Julian was silent, lost in thought. What did he feel? Emma wondered. He loved his family, still, but he had said it was different now. Did that mean he wasn't terrified for Mark? Emma moved closer to Cristina. "How did you end up finding Adaon?" she whispered. "Did you just click your ruby heels together and demand to be taken to the Unseelie King's hottest son?" Cristina rolled her eyes. "I saw Adaon in London, with Kieran," she whispered. "He seemed to care about Kieran. I took a chance." "And how did you get to him?" "I'll tell you later. And he is not the hottest Unseelie prince. Kieran is the hottest," Cristina said, and blushed beet red. Emma eyed Adaon's muscles, which were bunching spectacularly under his tunic as he balanced the swords. "I thought Kieran was at the Scholomance?" Cristina sighed. "You missed a lot. I will tell you everything, if we--" "Survive?" Emma said. "Yeah. I have a lot to tell you, too." "Be quiet!" snapped Adaon. "Enough chatter, prisoners!" They had emerged from the underground tunnels into the lower levels of the tower. Seelie and Unseelie faeries streamed by, hurrying to and fro. A passing redcap gave Adaon a broad wink. "Good work, Prince," he growled. "Round up those Nephilim!" "Thank you," said Adaon. "They're very rowdy." He glared at Cristina and Emma. "Still think he's hot?" Cristina muttered. "Possibly more so," whispered Emma. She felt an insane urge to giggle, despite the awful situation. She was just so happy to see Cristina again. "We're going to get through this, and we're going to get back home, and we're going to tell each other everything." "That is enough. The two of you, move apart," Adaon snapped, and Emma sheepishly went to walk next to Clary. They had reached the less crowded, more residential part of the tower, with its rows of richly decorated doors. Clary looked exhausted, her clothes stained with blood and dirt. "How did you get caught?" Emma murmured, keeping a weather eye on Adaon. "The Riders of Mannan," said Clary in a low voice. "They've been set the task of guarding Ash. We tried to fight them off, but they're more powerful here than they are in our world." She glanced sideways at Emma. "I heard you killed one of them. That's pretty impressive." "I think it was Cortana, not me." "Don't underestimate the power of the right blade," said Clary. "I miss Heosphoros sometimes. I miss the feel of it in my hand." Heosphoros, like Cortana, had been forged by the legendary weapon- maker Wayland the Smith. Every schoolchild knew Clary had carried the sword into Edom and slain Sebastian Morgenstern with it, and that it had been destroyed in the resulting conflagration. Was Clary thinking about Sebastian? Without being able to stop herself, Emma whispered, "I don't think Ash has to be like his father. He's still a little kid. He could grow up better--kinder." Clary's smile was sad. "So he got to you, too." "What?" '"A perfect leader, inspiring of perfect loyalty,"' Clary said. "The King has already done things to Ash, using his blood, I think, to make him like the First Heir. When you talked to him, you wanted to follow him and protect him, didn't you?" Emma blanched. "I did, but--" "Prince Adaon!" called a rough voice. Emma looked up to see that they stood in front of the rows of redcaps guarding the throne room. The leader of them--the one with the bloodiest, reddest cap and uniform--was looking at Adaon with some surprise. "What is this?" "Prisoners for the King," Adaon barked. "These were caught a week hence." The redcap pointed at Jace and Clary. "Aye, but I discovered these others in the prison, attempting to free them." Adaon indicated Cristina, Julian, and Emma. "They are Nephilim spies. They claim they have information for the King, which they would trade for their miserable, wormlike lives." "Wormlike?" Julian muttered. "Really?" "Hold here a moment," said the redcaps' leader. He ducked through the archway. A moment later he had returned, a faint smirk on his face. "Prince Adaon, pass through. Your father would see you, and prayed me give you the expectation of a familial reunion." A familial reunion. The King could just mean himself, of course. But he could also mean Kieran--and Mark. Julian had reacted too, if silently. His hand tightened as if he could grip an imaginary blade, and his eyes fixed on the dark archway. "Thank you, General Winter," said Adaon, and began to lead them all forward. This time they weren't walking into the throne room invisible to all eyes. This time they would be seen. Emma's throat was dry, her heart pounding. Unlike the Seelie Queen's ever-changing throne room, the inner sanctum of the King was unaltered. The massive Portal still covered one wall. It showed a blowing desert landscape, where trees poked out of the ground like skeleton hands clawing for air. The yellow-bright desert light lent an unnatural tint to the room, as if they stood in the light of invisible flames. The King was upon his throne, his one eye blazing red. In front of him were Mark and Kieran, surrounded by redcaps. Mark's hands were manacled together; Kieran knelt, his bound wrists connected to a metal chain sunk into the stone floor. When they jerked around to see who had come in, shock and relief flooded across Mark's face, followed by horror. There was a bloody cut across Kieran's forehead. His lips formed a single word. Cristina. Cristina gave a ragged gasp. Emma reached to catch her friend's wrist, but she was frozen in place. It was Julian who bolted forward, his gaze fixed on Mark. Adaon caught him with his free arm and yanked him back. Emma remembered what Julian had said about the atavistic need to protect Ty. It seemed he felt it for his other siblings too: He was still struggling as Adaon turned and said something to Jace. The Strength rune on Jace's forearm flashed as he flung an arm around Julian's chest, immobilizing him. "Keep him back!" Winter, the redcap general, pointed the tip of his pikestaff at Julian. More redcaps had streamed in to stand between Adaon's captives and the King, a thin crimson line. Julian's body was a taut line of tension and hate as he stared at the King, who was grinning his odd, half-skeletal grin. "Well done, Adaon," the King said. "I hear you foiled an attempt to escape our prisons." Mark's shoulders slumped. Kieran gazed at his father with loathing. "Look your fill, my son," the King said to Kieran. "Your friends are all my prisoners. There is no hope for you." He turned. "Let me see them, Adaon." With the tip of his sword, Adaon urged Emma and the others closer to the throne. Emma felt her chest tighten, remembering the last time she had stood before the King of Unseelie, how he had looked into her heart somehow and seen what she had most wanted, and given it to her as a dose of poison. "You," said the King, his eyes on Emma. "You fought my champion." "And she won," said Cristina proudly, her back straight. The King ignored her. "And you slew a Rider, my Fal. Interesting." He turned to Julian. "You disrupted my Court and took my son hostage. His blood is on your hands." Lastly, he gazed at Jace and Clary. "Because of you we suffer the Cold Peace." Adaon cleared his throat. "Then why are they still alive, Father? Why have you not killed them?" "Not helpful," Jace muttered. He had let go of Julian, who stood poised like a runner waiting for the starting gun. "Leverage against the Clave," said the King, caressing the arm of his throne. The stone was carved with a pattern of screaming faces. "To us they are enemies. To the Clave, they are heroes. It is ever the way with war." "But do we not seek an end to the Cold Peace?" said Adaon. "If we return these prisoners to the Clave, we could reopen negotiations. Find common ground. They will see that we are not all bloodthirsty murderers, as they believe." The King was silent for a moment. He was expressionless, but there was a look of apprehension on Kieran's face that Emma didn't like. At last the King smiled. "Adaon, you are truly the best of my sons. In your heart you long for peace, and peace we shall have--when the Nephilim realize we have a weapon that can destroy them all." "Ash," Emma whispered. She hadn't even meant to speak aloud, but the King heard. His ghastly face turned toward her. In the depths of his cavernous eye sockets, pinpoint lights gleamed. "Come here," he said. Julian made a noise of protest--or maybe it was something else; Emma couldn't tell. He was biting his lip hard, blood running down his chin. He didn't seem to notice, though, and he did nothing to stop her as she turned to go toward the King. She wondered if he even knew about the blood. She approached the throne, moving past the line of redcaps. She felt utterly naked without a weapon in her hand. She hadn't felt so vulnerable since Iarlath had whipped her against the quickbeam tree. The King thrust out a hand. "Stop," he said, and Emma stopped. There was enough adrenaline coursing through her that she felt a little drunk. She wanted nothing more than to fling herself at the King, tear at him, punch and kick him. But she knew that if she tried, she would be dead in an instant. The redcaps were everywhere. "One of you I will choose to return to the Clave as my messenger," said the King. "It could be you." Emma raised her chin. "I don't want to carry your messages." The King chuckled. "I didn't want you to kill one of my Riders, but you did. Perhaps this shall be your punishment." "Punish me by keeping me here," said Emma. "Let the others go." "A noble, but stupid, attempt at a ploy," said the King. "Child, all the wisdom of the Nephilim could fit into one acorn in the hand of a faerie. You are a young and foolish people and in your foolishness, you will die." He leaned forward, the pinpoint gleaming in his right eye blooming into a circle of flame. "How do you know of Ash?" "No! No! Leave him alone!" Emma whirled; a woman's scream lanced through the room like the sweep of a sharp blade. She felt herself tense further; Ethna and Eochaid had stalked into the room, marching Ash between them. He was without his gold crown and looked sulky and angry. Rushing along behind him was Annabel, crying out. "Stop! Haven't you done enough? Stop, I tell you! Ash is my charge--" She saw Emma and froze. Her eyes darted toward Adaon, lighting on Julian, who stared back at her with blazing hatred. Jace was gripping his shoulder again. She seemed to shrink into her clothes--a gray linen dress and woolen jacket. Her left hand was a claw that clutched the true Black Volume. "No," she moaned. "No, no, I didn't mean it. I didn't mean to do it." Emma heard a deep growl. A moment later she realized it was Mark, his chains rattling. Annabel gasped, recognizing him. She staggered back as one of the redcaps darted toward Mark, pike raised. Mark backed up--but he wasn't retreating, Emma saw, only loosening the chains that bound his wrists. He spun, flinging the chains around the redcap's neck; the pike crashed to the ground as he seized the length of chain and jerked, hard. The guard was flung backward, hurtling into his fellow redcaps. They all stumbled. Mark stood poised and breathing hard, his eyes fierce and hard as glass. Winter gazed at him and Kieran with a considering look. "Shall I kill him for you, liege?" said Winter. The King shook his head, clearly annoyed. "Have him beaten to his bones later. Redcaps, be more wary of the prisoners." He sneered. "They bite." Annabel was still moaning softly. She cast a terrified look at Emma, Julian, and Mark--which was ridiculous, Emma thought, as they were all obviously prisoners--and a longing one at Ash. Perfect loyalty, Emma thought. No wonder Annabel had attached herself so swiftly and tightly to Ash. The King snapped his fingers at Emma. "Return to Adaon, girl." Emma bristled but said nothing. She sauntered back across the room to Adaon and the others, refusing to give the King the satisfaction of hurrying. Emma reached the rest of the group just as Annabel gave another whimpering scream. Emma pushed in next to Julian, taking his arm. His muscles jumped under her touch. She wrapped her hand around his forearm and Jace stepped away from them, giving them space. Emma could feel the shape of the bloody rag tied around Julian's forearm under her fingers. Remember what Livvy would want, she thought. Don't get yourself killed. The King turned to Eochaid. "Give Ash your sword, Rider." Eochaid reeled back, clearly stunned. He turned toward Ethna, but she shook her head, her bronze hair spilling over her shoulders. Her message was clear: Do it. They watched as Eochaid handed over his gleaming bronze-gold sword. It was far too big for Ash, who took it with the grip of someone who was used to handling weapons, but not ones this big and heavy. He stared at the King with shocked eyes. "Cut Kieran's throat, Ash Morgenstern," said the King. He isn't even pretending, Emma thought. He doesn't care if we know exactly who Ash is or not. "No!" cried Mark. He lunged toward Ash and Kieran, but the redcaps cut him off. They were incredibly quick, and angry now--he had hurt one of their own. Clary gasped. Emma could hear Cristina whispering frantically beside her, though not the individual words. Kieran stayed where he was, gazing flatly into the distance as if the King hadn't spoken. "Why?" said Ash. His voice shook. Emma wondered if it was real or faked for sympathy. "You must spill royal blood," said the King, "and Kieran's is the most expendable." "You are a bastard!" Mark shouted, struggling against his manacles and the grip of the redcaps. "This is too much," Annabel cried. "He's just a child." "Which is why this must be done now," said the King. "The Dark Artifices would kill an older child." He leaned forward to look Ash in the face, a parody of a concerned adult. "Kieran will die regardless," he said, "whether your hand wields the blade or not. And if you do not do it, he will die slowly, in howling pain." Kieran's gaze tracked slowly across the room--but not toward Ash. He looked at Cristina, who was gazing helplessly at him, and then at Mark, struggling in the redcaps' grip. He smiled. Ash took a step forward. The sword hung loose in his hand and he was biting his lip. At last Kieran glanced at him. "Do what you must, child," he said, his voice kind and quiet. "I know what it is to be given no good choice by the King of the Unseelie Court." "Ungrateful whelp!" barked the King, sneering at Kieran. "Ash-- now!" Emma looked wildly toward Julian and the others. Adaon couldn't help them; there were too many redcaps, and the Riders were impossible to fight-- More redcaps spilled into the room. It took Emma a moment to realize they were running. Fleeing in terror from the storm that followed--a slender figure blazing in scarlet and gold, with red hair flowing around her like spilled blood. The Seelie Queen. An expression of surprise crossed the Unseelie King's face, followed swiftly by rage. Ash dropped the sword he was holding with a clatter, backing away from Kieran as the Queen approached. Emma had never seen the Seelie Queen like this. Her eyes were brilliant, blazing with unfaerie-like emotion. She was like a tidal wave, rushing toward her son. "No!" Annabel's screech was almost inhuman. Thrusting the Black Volume into her jacket, she bolted toward Ash, her arms held out. The Seelie Queen turned in one smooth motion and flung out her hand; Annabel sailed into the air and slammed into the rock wall of the chamber. She slid to the floor, gasping for breath. She had given the Riders time, though, to gather around Ash. The Queen strode toward them, her face radiant with power and rage. "You cannot touch him," said Ethna, her voice shimmering with a metallic hum. "He belongs to the King." "He is my son," said the Queen with contempt. Her gaze flickered between the two Riders. "You are of the oldest magic, the magic of the elements. You deserve better than to lick the boots of the Unseelie King like dogs." She tore her gaze from Ash and stalked up to the King, light flickering in her hair like tiny flames. "You," she said. "Deceiver. Your words of an alliance were so many dried leaves blown on the empty air." The King set the copy of the Black Volume on the arm of his throne and rose to his feet. Emma felt a bolt of wonder go down her spine. The King and Queen of Faerie, facing off before her. It was like a scene out of legend. Her fingers itched almost unbearably for a sword. "I do what I do because I must," said the King. "No one else has the strength to do it! The Nephilim are our single greatest enemy. They always have been. Yet you would make treaties with them, seek peace with them, live alongside them." He sneered. "Give your body to them." Emma's mouth dropped open. So rude, she mouthed at Cristina. The Queen straightened her back. She was still thin and wan, but the power of her Queenship seemed to radiate through her like light through a lamp. "You had your chance with our child, and because you did not believe a woman could be strong, you threw it away. I will not give you another of my children for your careless slaughter!" The First Heir, Emma thought. So it's true. There was a murmur of shock in the room--not from the human prisoners, but from the Riders and redcaps. A dark flush of rage went over the King's face. He flung out his arm, sheathed to the elbow in a golden gauntlet, toward the roiling Portal on the north wall. "Gaze upon this Portal, glorious Queen," he said through his teeth, and the image in the Portal began to change. Where before the desert landscape had been deserted, it was possible now to see darting figures among the poison- colored whirls of sand. The sky above the landscape had turned to a scorched rust and gold. Emma heard Clary make a strange choking noise. "I have torn a hole through to another world," said the King. "A world whose very substance is poisonous to Nephilim. Already our lands are protected by its earth, and already the poison begins to spread in Idris." "It's not the ley lines," Cristina whispered. "It's the blight." They spun to stare at the Portal. The scene had changed again. It now showed the same desert in the aftermath of a battle. Blood stained the sand red. Bodies were strewn everywhere, twisted and blackened by the sun. Faint screams and wailing could be heard, dim as the memory of something horrible. Jace whirled on the King. "What is this? What is this world? What have you done?" Clary's hand circled Emma's wrist, gripping tightly. Her voice was a bare whisper. "That's me." Emma stared through the Portal. Wind blew the sand in harsh gusts, uncovering a body in black Shadowhunter gear, the chest torn open and white bone showing. A spill of red hair threaded through the sand, mixing with blood. "That was my dream," Clary whispered. Her voice was choked with tears. Emma stood frozen, staring at Clary's dead body. "That's what I saw." The sand blew again, and Clary's body vanished from view just as Jace turned back around. "What world is this?" he demanded. "Pray you never have to find out," said the King. "The land of Thule is death, and it will rain down death in your world. In Ash's hands it will be the greatest weapon ever known." "And what will be the cost to Ash?" demanded the Queen. "What will be the cost to him? Already you have placed spells upon him. Already you have bled him. You wear his blood around your throat! Deny it, if you can!" Emma stared at the vial around the King's throat: She had thought it was a scarlet potion. It was not. She remembered the scar on Ash's throat and felt sick. The King chuckled. "I have no wish to deny it. His blood is unique-- Nephilim blood and demonic blood, mixed with the blood of the fey. I draw power from it, though only a fraction of the power Ash could have if you allow me to keep the Black Volume." The Queen's face twisted. "You are bound by your oath to return it to me, King-" The King tensed; Emma didn't understand as much about faeries as Cristina did, but she knew that if the King had sworn he would return the book to the Queen at dawn, he would have no choice but to do it. "It will bring us both indescribable power. Just let me show you--" "No!" A streak of gray linen and dark hair shot across the room and caught hold of Ash, whirling him off his feet. Ash cried out as Annabel seized him. She flew with him across the room, Ash's wrist gripped tightly in her hand. The Riders rushed after her, the redcaps circling from the door. Whirling like a trapped rabbit, she bared her teeth, Ash's wrist still caught in hers. "I will speak your name!" she shrieked at the King, and he froze. "In front of all these people! Even if you kill me, they will all have heard the word! Now tell them to stand down! They must stand down!" The King made a choking sound. As the Queen stared in disbelief, he clenched his fists so tightly that his gauntlets bent and shattered. Their metal stabbed into his skin and blood bloomed around the jagged edges. "She knows your name?" the Queen demanded, her voice rising. "That Nephilim knows your name?" "Stand down, Riders," the King said in a voice that sounded as if he were being strangled. "Stand down, all of you!" The Riders and redcaps froze. Realizing what was happening, the Queen shrieked and ran toward Annabel, raising her hands. But she was too late. Throwing her arms around Ash, Annabel hurled herself backward through the Portal. There was a sound as of thick fabric tearing. The Portal stretched apart and closed over Annabel and Ash. The Queen skidded to a stop, twisting her body to avoid crashing through the Portal. Julian sucked in his breath. The image in the Portal had changed--now they could see Annabel and Ash standing in the broken wasteland, sand swirling about them. The Queen screamed, holding out her hands as if she could touch Ash, could enfold him in her arms. For a moment Emma almost pitied her. The sand whirled again, and Ash and Annabel vanished from view. The King slumped down on his throne, his face in his hands. The Queen spun away from the Portal, striding toward the throne. Grief and rage were etched onto her features. "You have done the second of my children to his death, Lord of Shadows," she said. "There shall never be another." "Enough of your foolishness!" the King snapped. "I am the one who sacrificed for our child!" He indicated the ruin of his face, the glimmer of white bone where flesh should be. "Your children were and always have been nothing but ornaments to your vanity!" The Queen screamed something in a language Emma didn't understand and flung herself at the King, drawing a jeweled dagger from her bodice. "Guards!" the King shouted. "Kill her!" But the redcaps had frozen, staring in shock at the Queen as she brought the dagger down. The King threw up an arm to defend himself. He roared in pain as the knife sank into his shoulder, and blood splattered the ground below the throne. It seemed to spur the redcaps into action. They raced forward to seize the Queen, who turned on them in fury. Even the Riders were staring. "Now," Adaon said. He moved lightning fast, flinging the swords he held into the eager hands of the Shadowhunters who surrounded him. Emma caught one out of the air and raced toward Mark and Kieran, Julian and Cristina on either side of her. Her nerves caught fire as the redcaps, realizing what was going on, rushed at the advancing Nephilim. She had hated every moment of standing still; as one redcap lunged at her she leaped for the nearest boulder, caromed off it, and used the force of her rebound to sever another's head as she landed. Blood sprayed, blackish red. The King's face suffused with blood as he saw what his son was doing. "Adaon!" he bellowed, the sound like a roar, but Adaon was already racing toward Mark and Kieran, knocking redcaps aside with savage blows from his broadsword. That's right, Emma thought with a savage pleasure, every one of your sons hates you, King. She spun to engage another redcap, her blade clashing against his iron pikestaff. Jace and Clary were battling more redcaps. Julian and Cristina were behind Adaon, pushing toward Kieran and Mark, who were surrounded by guards. "Riders!" the King cried, spittle flying from his lips. "Stop him! Stop Adaon!" Eochaid sprang, leaping over the heads of a group of redcaps to land in front of Adaon. The prince's broadsword moved with incredible speed, parrying Eochaid's blade. Adaon shouted at Cristina and Julian to get to Mark and Kieran, and turned back to Eochaid just as Ethna strode up to them, her sword drawn. Emma ducked low, cutting at the redcap's legs; she said a silent prayer of thanks for Isabelle's bracelet, powering her blows as her own body weakened. The guard went down in a welter of blood as Jace raced to Adaon's side. His sword slammed against Ethna's with a ringing clang. And Emma remembered why she had always wanted to be Jace Herondale when she was a kid. His sword flew around him like sunlight dancing off water, and for several moments he drove Ethna back, while Adaon pressed Eochaid, driving him farther away from the throne and from Kieran and Mark. Clary leaped over a boulder, landing beside Emma; she was panting and her sword was drenched in blood. "We have to hold the redcaps off," she said. "Come with me!" Emma darted after her, slashing at guards as she went. A group of redcaps including General Winter had surrounded Cristina and Julian, preventing them from getting near Kieran and Mark. Emma sprang for the rough wall of the throne room. She scrambled up one-handed, looking down on the chaos below. The Queen and King were battling back and forth before the throne. Adaon and Jace were holding their own against the Riders, though Adaon had a long cut across one shoulder that was bleeding freely. And Clary was spinning, quick and fast, jabbing at the redcap guards and then darting back out of reach with startling swiftness. Emma flung herself off the wall, air rushing past her as she flipped and twisted, landing boots-first and sending Winter sprawling. The other redcaps rushed her and she swung her blade in an arc, slicing the tips from their pikestaffs. She sprang away from Winter and advanced on the other guards, her sword arcing in the air. "I slew Fal the Rider," she said in her most menacing voice. "I will slay you, too." They paled markedly. Several fell back, as behind them Julian and Cristina rushed to Mark and to Kieran. Julian hauled Mark to his feet, bringing his sword down to sever the chain that connected Mark's wrists. They swung free, each one still bearing an iron wristband. Mark caught hold of his brother with his manacled arms and hugged him quickly, fiercely. Emma's eyes prickled but there was no time to look at them; she spun and kicked and slashed, the world a chaos of silver and ice and blood. Emma heard Cristina call her name. Ice turned to fire. She ran toward the sound, leaping over toppled rocks, and found Cristina standing with a shattered blade in her hand. Kieran was still kneeling, pieces of the broken sword scattered around the chain that bound his wrists to the earth. "Emma, please--" Cristina began, but Emma was already bringing her blade down. It wasn't Cortana, but it held; the chain shattered and Kieran leaped to his feet. Cristina seized him by the arm. "We must go," she said, her eyes frantic. "I can use the artifact to return us 55 "Call everyone to you," Emma said. She pressed her sword into Cristina's hand. "I need to get the copy of the Black Volume." Cristina tried to shove the sword back at Emma. "What? Where?" But Emma was already running, kicking off the uneven floor to hurl herself at the steps to the throne. She heard the King bellow; she heard Julian cry out her name. She had reached the top of the steps. The throne loomed up before her, dark and granite, the printer-bound pages of the Black Volume resting on a great stone arm. Emma seized the book and spun around just in time to hear Adaon cry out, a hoarse shout of pain. Eochaid had him trapped against the side of a massive boulder. The front of Adaon's tunic was soaked with blood, and Eochaid's sword kissed his throat. "Shall I slay him, King?" Eochaid said in a gloating voice. Most of the bystanders in the room had frozen. Cristina had her hand over her mouth; she was the one who had brought Adaon here, after all. Even the redcaps were staring. "Your traitor son? Shall I end his life?" The Queen began to laugh. Redcaps had caught her by the arms, but she was still smiling her strange, catlike smile. "Oh, my lord," she said. "Is there a one of your sons that does not hate your name?" The King bared his teeth. "Cut his throat," he said to Eochaid. Adaon's muscles tensed. Emma's brain worked frantically--she saw Kieran start forward, but there was no way he could reach Adaon in time--Eochaid raised his blade like an executioner, his other arm braced against Adaon's chest-- There was a horrible choking cry. Adaon, Emma thought wildly, stumbling down the steps, but no, Eochaid was turning away from his captive, his sword still raised, his face contorted in surprise. The King was sinking to his knees, blood running freely down the front of his rich doublet. Kieran's hand was still raised in the air. Something protruded from the King's throat--a sliver of what looked almost like glass.... The elf-bolt arrowhead, Emma realized with a start. Kieran had flung his necklace at the King with incredible force. Eochaid and Ethna rushed toward the King, their gleaming swords in hand, their faces pictures of dismay. Adaon, too, walked toward his father. Kieran did not move. He was leaning heavily on Cristina's shoulder, his face expressionless. Kneeling, the King clawed at his throat. To Emma's shock, he seemed to be weakening--his hand scrabbled at the embedded elf-bolt, and then fell to his side, hanging uselessly. Adaon looked down at him. "Father," he said in a low voice. "Forgive me." Ethna's face contorted into a mask. Jace and Clary, both bloody and filthy, were staring in amazement. Distantly, Emma knew she was seeing something remarkable. The dying of a King who had ruled for a thousand years. Ethna whirled to glare at Kieran. "Kinslayer!" she cried. "Patricide!" "He was trying to save Adaon!" Mark shouted back. "Are you blind, Rider?" "Because he wants to be King," snarled Eochaid. "Because he wants the throne!" The Queen began to laugh. She drew free of the redcaps who had held her as if their touch were no more than spiderwebs, though several fell screaming to the floor, their palms burned and blackened, their fingers snapped. "Already they scavenge for your throne like dogs worrying at a bone," she said to the King, as blood ran out of the corners of his mouth and his eyes rolled up to the whites. She seized Adaon by the arm. He cried out in shock and pain; the Queen's hair whipped around them both as she grinned down at the King. "You took my son," she said. "Now I take yours." She vanished, and Adaon vanished with her. The King gave a cry and fell to the ground, scrabbling at the earth with gauntleted hands. His crown tumbled from his head and struck the stone floor as he choked out garbled words. Perhaps he was trying to say the Queen's name, perhaps Adaon's. Perhaps even Kieran's. Emma would never know. The King's body stiffened and slumped, and both Eochaid and Ethna cried out. He had gone still. But his blood continued to run out around him, snaking across the floor in rivulets. The redcaps were scrambling back from the King's body, their faces masks of horror. Winter lowered the pikestaff he had been aiming at Emma. "The King is dead! King Arawn is dead!" he cried, and Emma realized it must be true: It was safe to speak the King's true name now that he was no longer alive. The redcaps fled--save Winter, who held his ground--pouring out of the throne room in a river of crimson. Cristina was shouting for the other Shadowhunters; she held Mark by one hand, and he gripped a stunned- looking Kieran. Jace and Clary were scrambling over a pile of boulders to get to them. Julian was only yards away; Emma began to run as the King's body burst into flames. She cast one look back over her shoulder. The King was burning and so was the ground everywhere his blood had spilled--small fires and larger ones, burning fierce and hot, consuming the stone floor as if it were kindling. The King's body had already vanished behind a sheet of flames. A figure reared up out of the smoke, cutting Emma off. It was Ethna. She gleamed all over like a weapon, her bronze armor unsmudged, her metallic eyes gleaming with bloodlust. "My oath to the King died with him," she said, baring her teeth. "Your life is forfeit now, murderer!" She lunged at Emma. Emma's sword was gone; she flung up the copy of the Black Volume, and Ethna's sword plunged into it. Ethna flung it aside in disgust; the shredded remains of the book landed on the burning ground, its pages bursting into flames. Emma could hear Clary calling out to her, and the others, shouting for her to come quickly. She realized with a sinking heart that they must not be able to see her; they wouldn't know she needed help, they wouldn't know-- Ethna's blade flew through the air, bronze cutting through smoke. Emma twisted aside and fell to the ground, rolling to avoid the slashing blows that followed. Each time Ethna's blade barely missed her, it cut a deep gouge into the stone floor. It was getting harder for Emma to breathe. She scrambled to her knees, only to have Ethna plant a booted foot in her shoulder. She shoved, and Emma sprawled backward, hitting the ground hard. "Die on your back, bitch," Ethna said, raising her sword high. Emma flung her hands out as if they could ward off the blade. Ethna laughed, swung down-- And toppled sideways. Emma scrambled upright, choking on smoke and disbelief. Julian. He had thrown himself onto Ethna and was kneeling on her back, stabbing her over and over with something clutched in his fist. Emma realized with a shock that it was the iron figurine that Simon had given to him. Ethna was screaming, trying to writhe away from the iron. Emma whirled around: The room was blazing with fire, the boulders glowing like red-hot coals. Hot pain stabbed her side; a coal had landed on the sleeve of her jacket. She yanked it off furiously and stomped on it, putting the fire out. Sorry, Clary. She thought she could still see the dim figures of the others through the smoke. The surface of the Portal seemed to ripple like melting glass. "Julian!" she screamed, and held out her hand. "Leave her! We have to get to the others!" He looked up, his eyes wild with rage, and Ethna wrenched away from him with a yelp of anger and pain. Julian landed on his feet, already racing toward Emma. Together they fled toward the sound of Cristina's voice, rising and desperate, shouting their names. Emma thought she could hear Mark, too, and the others-- A sheet of flame blazed up from the ground, knocking them backward. They swung around, looking for a way around it, and Emma gasped: Ethna and Eochaid were striding toward them, Ethna bloodied and glaring, Eochaid gleaming and deadly. The Riders were at the heart of their power. Emma and Julian were starving, exhausted, and weakened. Emma's heart sank. "Cristina!" she screamed. "Go! Go! Get out of here!" Julian caught hold of her wrist. "There's only one way." His eyes flicked toward the wall--she tensed, then nodded--and the two of them took off running, just as the Riders began to raise their blades. Emma heard them cry out in confusion and disappointed bloodlust. She didn't care; the Portal was looming up in front of her like the dark window of a high-rise building, all shadow and gleam. She reached it and leaped, Julian's hand in hers, and together they sailed through the Portal. Diego wasn't sure how long he'd been in the barren stone cell. There were no windows, no sense of time passing. He knew Rayan and Divya were in the same prison, but the thick stone walls of the cells kept them from being able to shout or call to each other. It was almost a relief when there were footsteps in the corridor and-- instead of the usual guard who came twice a day with a plate of bland food-- Zara appeared, resplendent in Centurion gear. He would have thought she would be smirking, but she was oddly expressionless. Cortana was strapped to her side, and she caressed its hilt absently as she looked at him through the bars, as if she were stroking the head of a dog. "My dear fiance," she said. "How are you finding the accommodations? Not too cold and unwelcoming?" He said nothing. The rune of Quietude the Cohort had put on him had been removed almost immediately after the meeting, but that didn't mean he had anything to talk to Zara about. "And to think," she went on. "If you'd played your cards a little differently, you might have been living in the Gard tower with me." "And that wouldn't have been cold and unwelcoming?" spat Diego. "Living with someone I hate?" She flinched a little. Diego was surprised. Surely she knew they hated each other? "You have no right or reason to hate me," she said. "I'm the one who was betrayed. You were a convenient marriage prospect. Now you're a traitor. It would shame me to marry you." Diego let his head fall back against the wall. "Good," he said wearily. "You have taken everything from me. At least I no longer have to pretend to love you." Her lips tightened. "I know you never intended to go through with the marriage. You were just trying to buy time for your vigilante brother. Still-- I'll make you a deal. You claim Jaime still has the faerie artifact. We want it. It should be in government hands." Her lips twisted into an ugly smirk. "If you tell us where to find it, I'll pardon you." "I haven't the vaguest idea," said Diego. "And carrying that sword around won't make you Emma Carstairs." She glared at him. "You shouldn't have said that. Or the thing about how I've taken everything from you already. You still have a lot left to lose." She turned her head. "Milo? Bring the second prisoner forward." There was a blur of movement in the shadowy corridor, and the cell door opened. Diego strained forward as a dark figure was hurled into the cell alongside him. Milo slammed the door shut and locked it as the new arrival groaned and sat up. Diego's heart turned over in his chest. Even bruised and bloody, with his lip cut and a burn scar on his cheek, he would recognize his younger brother anywhere. "Jaime," he breathed. "He seems to know no more about the artifact than you do," said Zara. "But then, without the Mortal Sword, we can't make him tell the truth. So we have to fall back on more old-fashioned methods of dealing with liars and traitors." She traced the hilt of Cortana with loving fingertips. "I'm sure you know what I mean." "Jaime," Diego said again. The ceiling was too low for him to stand up; he crawled across the floor to his brother, pulling Jaime against him. Jaime, half-conscious, lolled against his shoulder, his eyes almost slitted shut. His clothes were torn and wet with blood. Diego felt a cold fear at his heart: What wounds lay underneath? "Hold, hermano," Jaime whispered. "During his discussions with the Inquisitor about the location of the artifact, your brother became overexcited. He needed to be subdued." Now Zara did smile. "The guards accidentally, shall we say, injured him. It would be a shame if his injuries were to become infected or if he were to die because he lacked proper medical care." "Give me a stele," hissed Diego. He had never hated anyone more than he hated Zara in that moment. "He needs an iratze." "Give me the artifact," said Zara. "And he can have one." Diego said nothing. He had no idea where the Eternidad was, the heirloom that Jaime had suffered so much to protect. He held his brother tighter, his lips pressed together. He would not beg Zara for mercy. "No?" she preened. "As you like. Perhaps when your brother is screaming with fever you will feel differently. Call upon me, Diego dear, if you ever change your mind." Manuel strode into the throne room, smirking, Oban on his heels. Manuel couldn't help the smirking; as he sometimes told people, it was just the natural expression of his face. It was true that he also liked chaos, though, and right now, there was chaos aplenty to please him. The throne room looked charred, the rock walls and floor smeared with black ash. The place reeked of blood and sulfur. Bodies of redcaps were strewn on the floor, one covered by an expensive-looking tapestry. On a far wall, the shrinking Portal showed a beach at night, under a red moon. Oban clicked his tongue, which Manuel had learned was the faerie equivalent of letting out a low whistle. "What happened in here? It looks like the aftermath of one of my more famous parties." Manuel poked at the tapestry-covered mound with his toe. "And the fields outside are full of fleeing Seelie fey, now that their Queen is gone," Oban went on. "Manuel, I demand an explanation. Where is my father?" Winter, the somber redcap leader, came over to them. He was streaked with blood and ash. "Prince," he said. "Your father lies here." He indicated the mound Manuel was poking with his toe. Manuel bent over and yanked the tapestry back. The thing beneath did not look human, or fey, or as if it had ever lived at all. It was the blackened, crumbling outline of a man drawn in ash, its face a rictus. Something gleamed at its throat. Manuel knelt to take it. An etched glass vial of scarlet liquid. Interesting. He placed it in his jacket pocket. "What's that?" said Oban. For a moment Manuel felt a spark of worry that Oban had chosen to take an interest in something important. Fortunately, it was not the case--Oban had caught sight of a gleaming elf-bolt necklace among his father's remains. He bent to grab the shining thing, letting it dangle from his fingers. "Kieran?" he said incredulously. "Kieran killed our father?" "Does it matter?" said Manuel in a low voice. "The old man is dead. That is good news." It was indeed. The previous King had been an uneasy ally, if one could call him an ally at all. Though the Cohort had helped him spread the blight in Idris and that had pleased him, he had never trusted them or interested himself in their greater plans. Nor had he warned them of his intention to seize the Black Volume, an event which had irritated Horace greatly. Oban would be different. He would trust those who had put him in power. He was a fool. "It might give Kieran claim to the throne if it were known," said Oban, his slack, handsome face darkening. "Who saw the King slain? What of Kieran's Nephilim companions?" "My redcaps saw, but they will not speak," said Winter as Oban moved to the throne. The King's crown rested on its seat, gleaming dully. "Prince Kieran has fled with most of the Nephilim to the human world." Oban's face tightened. "Where he might brag of slaying our father?" "I don't think he will do that," said General Winter. A look of relief crossed Oban's face. He did tend to respond like putty to anyone in authority, Manuel thought. "He seems to love dearly those Nephilim he has befriended, and they him. I do not think he wants the throne, or would endanger them." "We will keep a watch out," said Oban. "Where is Adaon?" "Adaon was taken prisoner by the Seelie Queen." "Adaon taken prisoner?" asked Oban, and when Winter nodded, he laughed and tumbled into the throne's seat. "And what of the Queen's son, the brat?" "Gone with the undead witch, through the Portal," said Winter. "It does not seem likely they will survive long." "Well, the kingdom cannot go on without a ruler. It seems my destiny has found me." Oban handed the crown to Winter. "Crown me." With the death of the King, the Portal was disappearing. It was now the size of a porthole on a boat. Through the small circle, Manuel could see a dead city, ruined towers and broken roads. Something lay in a heap on the floor near the Portal, among the signs of a fight. Manuel stopped to pick it up; it was a bloody jean jacket. He frowned, turning it over in his hands. It was a small jacket, a girl's, slashed and bloody, one sleeve partially burned. He slipped his fingers into the breast pocket and withdrew a ring stamped with butterflies. Fairchild. Manuel returned to Oban just as Winter placed the crown on the prince's head, looking extremely uncomfortable. Manuel shook the jacket in Winter's direction. "You said most of the Nephilim returned to the human world. What happened to the girl who wore this? The girl and the boy, the Nephilim prisoners?" "They went through the Portal." Winter gestured toward it. "They are as good as dead. That land is poison, especially to those such as they." He stepped back from Oban. "You are King now, sire." Oban touched the crown on his head and laughed. "Bring wine, Winter! I am parched! Empty the cellars! The most beautiful maidens and youths of the Court, bring them to me! Today is a great day!" Manuel smiled down at the bloody jacket. "Yes. Today is indeed a day for celebration." <|title|>Chapter 17: In a Strange City <|startofchapter|>It wasn't a desert. It was a beach. The blackness of the Portal had been like nothing Julian had ever experienced before. No light, sound, or movement, only the stomach- dropping feeling of having tumbled down an elevator shaft. When the world returned at last, it was a silent explosion rushing toward him. Reborn into sound and movement, he hit the ground hard, sand spraying up around him. He rolled to his side, heart pounding. He had lost hold of Emma's hand somewhere in the hurtling darkness, but there she was, struggling to her knees beside him. Her faerie clothes were shredded and bloodstained, but she seemed unharmed. A gasping pain went through him, sharp as an arrow. It took him a moment to recognize it as relief. Emma was scrambling to her feet, brushing herself off. Julian rose dizzily; they were on a wide, familiar-looking beach at night, dotted with half-eroded rock formations. Bluffs rose behind them, rickety wooden stairs twisting down their faces to connect the road above with the sand. Music was playing, loud and jarring. The far end of the beach was thronged with people, none of whom seemed to have noticed their abrupt arrival. It was a peculiar crowd--a mix of humans, vampires, and even a few faeries dotted here and there, garbed in black and metal. Julian squinted but couldn't make out details. Emma touched the Night Vision rune on her own arm and frowned at him. "My runes aren't working," she whispered. "Same as in Faerie." Julian shook his head as if to say, I don't know what's going on. He started as something sharp prickled his side--glancing down, he realized his phone had been smashed to pieces. Jagged bits of plastic stuck into his skin. He dropped the phone with a wince--it would be no use to anyone now. He glanced around. The sky was heavily clouded, and a blood-red moon cast a dull glow across the sand. "I know this beach," he said. The rock formations were familiar, the curve of the shoreline, the shape of the waves-- though the color of the ocean water was ink black, and where it broke against the shoreline it left edgings of black lace. Emma touched his shoulder. "Julian? We need to make a plan." She was gray with fatigue, shadows smudged under her deep brown eyes. Her golden hair fell in thick tangles around her shoulders. Emotion exploded inside Julian. Pain, love, panic, grief, and yearning poured through him like blood from a wound whose sutures had torn open. He staggered away from Emma and crumpled against a rock, his stomach heaving violently as it emptied itself of bitter bile. When his body had stopped spasming, he wiped his mouth, scrubbed his hands with sand, and returned to where Emma had partly climbed one of the rock formations. Sea stacks, they were called, or something like that. He clenched his hands. His emotions roiled like a hurricane tide, pressing at the inside of his skull, and in response his mind seemed to be running all over the place, catching at random pieces of information and tossing them up like roadblocks. Focus, he told himself, and bit at his lip until the pain cleared his head. He could taste blood. Emma was halfway up the sea stack, staring toward the south. "This is really, really weird." "Weird how?" He was surprised by how normal he sounded. In the distance, two figures passed by--both vampires, one a girl with long brown hair. They both waved at him casually. What the hell was going on? She jumped down. "Are you okay?" she asked, pushing back her hair. "I think it was the trip through the Portal," he lied. Whatever was going on with him, it wasn't that. "Look at this." Emma had somehow managed to hang on to her phone through all their travails. She flicked through to show Julian the photo she'd taken from the sea stack. It was dark, but he immediately recognized the shoreline, and in the distance the ruins of the Santa Monica Pier. The Ferris wheel had been tipped over, a crushed hunk of metal. Dark shapes wheeled in the sky above. They were definitely not birds. Emma swallowed hard. "This is Los Angeles, Julian. This is right near the Institute." "But the King said this was Thule--he said it was a world that was poisonous to Nephilim--" He broke off in horror. At the opposite end of the beach from the crowd, two long columns of human figures were marching in neat military formation. As they grew closer, Julian caught sight of a flash of scarlet gear. He and Emma dived behind the nearest rock formation, pressing themselves flat against it. They could see the marchers getting closer. The throng at the other end of the beach had started to move toward them as well, and the music had vanished. There was only the sound of the crashing waves, the wind, and marching feet. "Endarkened," Emma breathed as they drew closer. During the Dark War, Sebastian Morgenstern had kidnapped hundreds of Shadowhunters and controlled them using his own version of the Mortal Cup. They had been called the Endarkened, and they had been recognizable by the scarlet gear they wore. Julian's father had been one of them, until Julian had killed him. He still dreamed about it. "But the Endarkened are all dead," Julian said in a distant, mechanical tone. "They died when Sebastian died." "In our world." Emma turned to him. "Julian, we know what this is. We just don't want it to be the truth. This is--Thule is--a version of our own world. Something must have happened differently in the past here-- something that put this world on an alternate path. Like Edom." Julian knew she was right; he had known it since he recognized the pier. He shoved back thoughts of his own family, his father. He couldn't think about that right now. The columns of marching Endarkened had given way to a cluster of guards holding banners. Each banner bore the sigil of a star inside a circle. "By the Angel," Emma whispered. She pressed her hand against her mouth. Morgenstern. The morning star. Behind the flag bearers walked Sebastian. He looked older than he had the last time Julian had seen him, a teenage boy with hair like white ice, powered by hatred and poison. He looked to be in his midtwenties now, still slim and boyish, but with a harder cast to his face. The features that had been gently edged were sharp as glass now, and his black eyes burned. Phaesphoros, the Morgenstern sword, was slung over his shoulder in a scabbard worked with a design of stars and flames. Walking just behind him was Jace Herondale. It was a harder and stranger blow. They had just left Jace, fighting by their side in the Unseelie Court, weary and tired but still fierce and protective. This Jace looked to be about the same age as that one; he was strongly muscled all over, his golden hair tousled, his face as handsome as ever. But there was a dead, dark light in his golden eyes. A sullen ferocity that Julian associated with the Cohort and their ilk, those who attacked rather than those who protected. Behind them came a woman with gray-brown hair Julian recognized as Amatis Graymark, Luke's sister. She had been one of the first and fiercest of Sebastian's Endarkened, and that seemed true here as well. Her face was deeply lined, her mouth grimly set. She pushed a prisoner ahead of her-- someone dressed in Shadowhunter black, a strip of rough canvas wrapped around and around their head, obscuring their features. "Come!" Sebastian cried, and some invisible force amplified his voice so that it boomed up and down the beach. "Endarkened, guests, gather around. We are here to celebrate the capture and execution of a significant traitor. One who has turned against the light of the Star." There was a roar of excitement. The crowd began to gather into a loose rectangle, with Sebastian and his guards at the south end of it. Julian saw Jace lean over to say something to Sebastian, and Sebastian laughed with an easy camaraderie that sent a chill down Julian's spine. Jace wore a gray suit jacket, not a scarlet uniform--so he wasn't Endarkened, then? His gaze flicked around the crowd; other than Amatis, he recognized several Shadowhunters he had known vaguely from the Los Angeles Conclave--he saw the young- looking vampire girl who had waved at him before, giggling and talking to Anselm Nightshade-- And he saw Emma. It was clearly Emma. He would have known Emma anywhere, in any costume, in any darkness or light. The bloody moonlight spilled onto her pale hair; she wore a red dress with no back, and her skin was smooth and free of runes. She was talking to a tall boy who was mostly in shadow, but Julian barely looked at him: He was looking at her, his Emma, beautiful and alive and safe and-- She laughed and reached her arms up. The tall young man threaded his hands into Emma's hair and she kissed him. It hit him with the force of a train. Jealousy: white-hot, boiling, venomous. It was all Julian could do to stay behind the rock as the boy's hands trailed down Emma's bare back. He shook with the force of his feeling. Emotion tore at him, threatened to overwhelm him and drive him to his knees. Hot waves of jealousy mixed with desperate longing. Those ought to be his hands on Emma's hair, her skin. He turned his head to the side, gasping. His shirt was stuck to his body with sweat. Emma--the real Emma--still pressed up against the rock beside him, looked at him with alarm. "Julian, what's wrong?" His heartbeat had already begun to slow. This was his Emma. The other was a fake, a simulacrum. "Look," he whispered, and gestured. Emma followed his gaze, and blushed. "Oh. That's us?" Julian stared around the rock again. Emma and the boy had pulled apart, and how had he not seen it? It was like looking into a mirror that showed you what you might look like in a few years. There he was, Blackthorn hair and eyes, sea-glass bracelet, dressed in red and black. Julian stared as the other him drew the other Emma closer and kissed her again. It definitely wasn't a first kiss, or even a second one. Other Julian's fingers trailed down Other Emma's back, obviously luxuriating in the feel of her bare skin. His hands found her satin-covered hips and splayed over them, pulling her body closer; she raised a leg and hooked it over his hip, letting her head fall back so he could press his lips to her throat. Other Julian was a very confident kisser, apparently. "This is the worst," said Emma. "Not only are we apparently Endarkened in this world, we're huge on PDA." "The other Endarkened probably can't stand us," said Julian. "Emma, this seems recent. This world couldn't have split from ours that long ago--" "Silence!" Sebastian's voice echoed up and down the beach and the crowd hushed. Alternate Emma and Julian stopped kissing, which was a relief. "Jace, put the traitor on her knees." So it was a woman. Julian watched with a twisting feeling in his empty stomach as Jace shoved the prisoner to her knees and began slowly to unwind her blindfold. "Ash!" Sebastian called. "Ash, come watch, my child, and learn!" Julian felt Emma freeze up in shock beside him. There was a stir among the guards, and from among them appeared Ash Morgenstern, his expression rigid. He had changed more since the last time they'd seen him than either Jace or Sebastian had. He had gone from thirteen to what Emma would have guessed was seventeen; he was no longer a skinny kid but a boy on the cusp of adulthood, tall and broad-shouldered. His white-blond hair had been cut short and he wasn't wearing Endarkened red--just an ordinary white thermal shirt and jeans. He still had the X-shaped scar on his throat, though. It was unmistakable, even at this distance. Ash crossed his arms over his chest. "I'm here, Father," he said blandly, and it struck Julian how peculiar it was, this boy calling someone who looked five years older than he did "Father." "This is our world's Ash," Julian said. "The one Annabel brought through the Portal." Emma nodded. "His scar. I saw." Jace drew the last of the coverings away from the kneeling woman's face. Emma flinched back as if struck. It was Maryse Lightwood. Her hair had been cut very short, and her face was haggard. Ash watched expressionless as she gazed around her in silent horror. A silver chain dangled around his throat; Julian didn't recall him having it in Faerie. How many years had elapsed for him here between his escape into the Portal and Emma and Julian's arrival in Thule? "Maryse Lightwood," said Sebastian, pacing in a slow circle around her. Emma hadn't moved or made a sound since her initial flinch. Julian wondered if she was remembering Maryse in their world--grieving at the side of her former husband's pyre, but surrounded by her children, her grandchildren.... Emma must be wondering about her own parents, he realized with a jolt. Wondering if they were alive in this world. But she hadn't said a word. "You stand accused of aiding and assisting rebels against the cause of the Fallen Star. Now, we know you did it, so we're not having a trial, because we're against those anyway. But you--you committed the greatest treason of all. You tried to break the bond between two brothers. Jace and I are brothers. You are not his mother. The only family he has is me." "Oh my God," Emma whispered. "This is that weird bond they had--when Sebastian possessed Jace, remember? So that happened in this world...." "I killed my own mother, Lilith, for Jace," said Sebastian. "Now he will kill his mother for me." Jace unsheathed the sword at his waist. It had a long, wicked silver blade that glimmered red in the moonlight. Julian thought again of the Jace in their world: laughing, joking, animated. It seemed like something more than possession was at work here. Like this Jace was dead inside. Sebastian's lips were turned up at the corners; he was smiling, but it wasn't a very human smile. "Any last words, Maryse?" Maryse twisted around so that she was looking up at Jace. The tense lines of her face seemed to relax, and for a moment, Julian saw John Carstairs looking at Emma, or his own mother looking at him, that mixture of love for what is and sorrow for what cannot be kept.... "Do you remember, Jace?" she said. "That song I used to sing to you when you were a boy." She began to sing, her voice high and wavering. A la claire fontaine men allant promener J'ai trouvel'eau si belle queje my suis baigne. Ilya longtemps queje t'aime, jamais je ne t'oublierai. Julian only knew enough French to translate a few words. I have loved you for a long time. I will never forget you. "Il y a longtemps queje t'aime --" Maryse sang, her voice rising, quavering at the highest note-- Ash was gripping his own elbows tightly. He turned his head aside, just at the moment that Jace brought the sword down and across, severing Maryse's head from her body. White bone, red blood; her body crumpled to the sand, her head rolling to lie cheek down, open-eyed. She still seemed to be staring at Jace. Blood had splattered Ash's face, his shirt. The crowd was clapping and cheering. Jace bent to clean his sword on the sand as Sebastian strolled over to Ash, his smile turning from inhuman to something else. Something possessive. "I hope that was a learning experience," he said to Ash. "I learned not to wear white to an execution," said Ash, brushing his hand down the front of his shirt; it left red smears behind. "Useful." "Once we have the Mortal Instruments in hand, you'll see a lot more death, Ash." Sebastian chuckled and once again raised his voice. "Feeding time," he announced, and the words rang up and down the beach. There was a scream inside Julian's head, clawing to get out; he glanced at Emma and saw the same scream in her eyes. Maybe it belonged to them both. She grabbed his wrist with enough force to grind the small bones together. "We have to go. We have to get away." Her words tumbled over each other; Julian didn't even have time to agree. As the vampires closed in on Maryse's body, they ran for the bluffs, keeping low. The night was filled with a cacophony of shrieks and howls and the air carried the coppery tinge of blood. Emma was whispering, "No, no, no," under her breath, even as she hit the bottom of a rickety wooden staircase and bolted up it in a crouching run. Julian followed, doing his best not to look back. The stairs shook underfoot but held; the top of the bluffs was in sight. Emma reached the end of the stairs--and cried out as she was whisked out of sight. Julian's vision went white. He had no awareness of climbing the rest of the steps; he was simply at the top of the bluffs--familiar highway, rows of parked cars, sand and grass underfoot--and there was Emma, held in the grip of a tall, redheaded boy whose familiar face smacked Julian like a punch in the gut. "Cameron?" Julian said, incredulous. "Cameron Ashdown?" Cameron looked about nineteen or twenty. His thick red hair was cut military short. He was whipcord lean, wearing a tan T-shirt and camo pants, a Sam Browne belt slung diagonally over his shoulder. There was a pistol thrust through it. His face twisted in disgust. "Both of you together. I might have guessed." Julian took a step forward. "Let her go, you Endarkened piece of--" Cameron's eyes rounded with almost comical surprise, and Emma took advantage of the moment to kick backward savagely, twisting her body to deliver several quick punches to his side. She spun away from him as he gagged, but he'd already gotten the pistol out of its holster. He pointed it at both of them. Shadowhunters didn't use guns, but Julian could tell just by the way he held it that this Cameron Ashdown knew them well. If Cameron shot, Julian thought, there might be time for him to throw himself in front of Emma. He'd take the bullet, even if he hated the idea of leaving her here alone.... Cameron raised his voice. "Livia!" he called. "You're going to want to see this." Julian's chest turned to ice. He imagined he was still breathing, he must be or he'd die, but he couldn't feel it, couldn't feel the blood in his body or the pulse of his breath or the beat of his heart. He only saw her, appearing from between two cars: She walked toward them casually, her long dark Blackthorn hair blowing in the wind off the sea. Livvy. She looked about seventeen. She wore black leather pants with a bullet belt slung around her waist and a gray tank top with holes in it over a mesh shirt. Her boots were thick-soled with a dozen buckles. On her wrists were D-ring canvas bracelets with short throwing knives shoved under the straps. A scar --one of many--cut across her face, from the top of her left temple, across her eye, to the middle of her cheek. She carried a shotgun, and as she walked toward them, she raised it effortlessly and pointed it directly at Julian. "It's them," Cameron said. "Don't know what they're doing away from the other Endarkened." "Who cares?" Livvy said. "I'm gonna kill them, and they'd thank me for it if they still had souls." Julian threw up his hands. Joy at seeing her, uncontrollable and dizzying, warred with panic. "Livvy, it's us --" "Don't even try," she spat. She pumped the shotgun expertly. "I'd tell you to pray, but the Angel is dead." "Look--" Emma started, and Livvy began to swing the gun toward her; Julian took a step toward his sister, and then Cameron, who Julian had almost forgotten was there, said: " Wait ." Livvy froze. "This had better be good, Cam." Cameron pointed at Julian. "His collar's torn--" He shook his head impatiently. "Show her," he said to Julian. "Your rune," Emma whispered, and Julian, realization bursting brightly behind his eyes, yanked his collar down to show Livvy the rune on his chest. Though Julian's impermanent runes--Night Vision, Stealth, Sure-Strike-- had been fading to gray since they'd entered Faerie, his parabatai rune stood out black and clear. Livvy froze. "The Endarkened can't bear Nephilim runes," said Julian. "You know that, Livvy." "I know you think were Emma and Julian, the Endarkened version," said Emma. "But we've seen them. They're down on the beach." She pointed. "Seriously. Look." A flicker of doubt crossed Livvy's face. "Cameron. Go look." Cameron went to the edge of the bluffs and peered down through a pair of binoculars. Julian held his breath; he could tell Emma was holding hers as well. "Yeah, they're there," Cameron said after a long pause. "And they're making out. Gross." "They were always doing that before they were Endarkened," said Livvy. "Some things never change." Emma raised her left hand to show her Voyance rune. "We're Shadowhunters. We know you, Livvy, and we love you--" "Stop," Livvy said fiercely. "Fine, maybe you're not the Endarkened, but this could still be some kind of demonic shape-changing--" "These are angelic runes," said Julian. "We're not demons--" "Then who are you?" Livvy cried, and her voice echoed with an awful hopelessness, a loneliness as dark and bottomless as a well. "Who am I supposed to think you are?" "We're still us," Emma said. "Jules and Emma. We're from another world. One where Sebastian is not in charge. One with runes." Livvy stared at her blankly. "Liv," said Cameron, lowering his binoculars. "The party on the beach is starting to break up. They'll be climbing up here any second. What are we doing?" Livvy hesitated, but only for a second. Julian guessed that a lot of free time to make decisions wasn't a luxury this version of his sister had. "Let's take them back to the Bradbury," she said. "Maybe Diana will be back. She's seen a lot--she might have some idea what's going on here." "Diana? Diana Wrayburn?" said Emma with relief. "Yes, take us to Diana, please." Cameron and Livvy exchanged a look of complete bafflement. "All right, fine," Livvy said finally. She gestured toward a black Jeep Wrangler with tinted windows parked along the side of the highway. "Get in the car, both of you, backseat. And don't even consider trying anything funny. I'll blow your heads right off." Livvy was riding shotgun, which meant she was sitting in the passenger seat with an actual shotgun slung across her lap. Beside her, Cameron drove with a sharp efficiency that was entirely at odds with the hapless, slightly lazy Cameron Emma knew in her own world. He navigated the car effortlessly around the massive potholes that pocked the asphalt of the Pacific Coast Highway like dings in the side of an old car. Julian was silent, staring out his window with an appalled fascination. There was little to see, except the ruined road swept by their headlights, but the darkness itself was startling. The absence of streetlights, road signs, and illuminated windows lining the road was shocking in itself, like looking at a face missing its eyes. Light finally evolved out of the darkness as they reached the end of the highway, where a tunnel connected it to the 10 freeway. On their right was the Santa Monica Pier, the familiar jetty now in ruins as if a giant had hacked at it with an ax. Chunks of wood and concrete lay tumbled and jagged in the water. Only the old carousel was untouched. It was lit up, atonal music pouring from its speakers. Clinging to the backs of the old-fashioned painted ponies were shadowy, inhuman shapes, their chittering giggles carried on the night air. The faces of the ponies appeared to be twisted into tormented, shrieking masks. Emma looked away, glad when the car went into the tunnel, cutting off her view of the merry-go-round. "The pier is one of the first places that the hellbeasts staked out," Cameron said, glancing into the backseat. "Who knew that demons liked amusement parks?" Emma cleared her throat. "Mad for funnel cakes?" Cameron laughed dryly. "Same old Emma. Sarcastic in the face of adversity." Livvy darted a sharp look at him. "I guess we shouldn't ask about Disneyland," said Julian in a flat voice. Julian probably hadn't expected Cameron and Livvy to laugh, but the way they both tensed suggested that something really terrible had happened at Disneyland. Emma decided not to pursue it. There were bigger questions. "When did all this happen?" she said. "Just after the Dark War," said Livvy. "When Sebastian won." "So he still attacked all the Institutes?" Emma asked. She hadn't wanted to think about it, hadn't wanted to court even the tiny possibility that her parents might be alive in this world, but she couldn't help the catch of hope in her voice. "Los Angeles, too?" "Yes," said Livvy. Her voice was flat. "Your parents were killed. Our father was Endarkened." Emma flinched. She'd known there was no real hope, but it still hurt. And Julian must have wondered about his father, she knew. She wanted to reach out a hand to him, but the memory of the emotionless Julian of the past week held her back. "In our world, those things happened too," said Julian, after a long pause. "But we won the war." "Sebastian died," said Emma. "Clary killed him." "Clary Fairchild?" said Cameron. His voice was thick with doubt. "She was murdered by the demon Lilith at the Battle of the Burren." "No," said Emma stubbornly. "Clary and her friends won at the Battle of the Burren. There are paintings of it. She rescued Jace with the sword Glorious and they tracked Sebastian down in Edom; he never won--" Livvy tapped her short fingernails on the barrel of her gun. "Nice story. So you're claiming you come from a place where Sebastian is dead, demons aren't roaming the streets, and Shadowhunters still have angelic power?" "Yes," Emma said. Livvy turned to look at her. The scar that cut across her eye was an angry red in the scarlet moonlight. "Well, if it's so great there, what are you doing here?" "It wasn't a planned vacation. Not everything in our world is perfect," Emma said. "Far from it, really." She glanced at Julian and to her surprise found him looking back at her, matching her searching glance with his own. An echo of their old instant communication flared --Should we tell Livvy that she's dead in our world? Emma shook her head slightly. Livvy didn't believe them about anything yet. That piece of information wouldn't help. "Gotta get off," said Cameron. There were a few lights out here, illuminating patches of highway, and Emma could see the occasional illumination dotting the flat plain of the city beyond. It didn't look anything like Los Angeles at night, though. The diamond chains of white light were gone, replaced by irregular spots of brightness. A fire burned somewhere on a distant hill. In front of them, a massive crack divided the highway, as if someone had sliced neatly through the concrete. Cameron swung away from the rift, taking the nearest off-ramp. He dimmed the headlights as they hit the streets, and cruised at a slow speed through a residential neighborhood. It was an unremarkable L.A. street lined with one-level ranch houses. Most of them were boarded up, the curtains pulled, only tiny glimpses of light visible within. Many were completely dark, and a few of those showed signs of forced entry--doors torn off at the hinges, bloodstains smearing the white stucco walls. Along the curb were a few abandoned cars with their trunks still open as though the people who owned them had been... taken away... while trying to make a break for it. Saddest of all were the signs that children had once lived here: a torn-apart jungle gym, a bent tricycle lying in the middle of a driveway. A ghostly swing set pushed by the breeze. A curve in the road loomed in front of them. As Cameron swung the car around, the headlights picked out a strange sight. A family--two parents and two children, a boy and a girl--were sitting at a picnic table on their lawn. They were eating in silence from plates of grilled meat, coleslaw, and potato salad. They were all deathly pale. Emma swung around to stare as they receded into the distance. "What is going on with them?" "Forsworn," said Livvy, curling her lip with distaste. "They're mundanes who are loyal to Sebastian. He runs the Institutes now and protects mundanes who swear allegiance to him. Half the remaining mundanes in the world are Forsworn." "What about the other half?" said Julian. "Rebels. Freedom fighters. You can either be one or the other." "You're rebels?" Emma said. Cameron laughed and looked fondly at Livvy. "Livia isn't just a rebel. She's the baddest badass rebel of them all." He stroked the back of Livvy's neck gently. Emma hoped Julian's head wouldn't blow right off. Livvy clearly wasn't fifteen anymore, but she was still Julian's little sister, sort of. Hastily, Emma said, "Shadowhunters and mundanes are united as a rebellion? What about Downworlders?" "There are no Shadowhunters anymore," Livvy said. She held up her right hand. There was no Voyance rune on the back. If Emma squinted, she thought she could glimpse the faint scar where it had once been: a shadow of a shadow. "The power of the Angel is broken. Steles don't work, runes fade like ghosts. Sebastian Morgenstern went from Institute to Institute and killed everyone who wouldn't pledge their loyalty to him. He opened the world to demons and they salted the earth with demon poisons and shattered the glass towers. Idris was overrun and the Adamant Citadel was destroyed. Angelic magic doesn't work. Demonic magic is the only magic there is." She tightened her hands on her shotgun. "Most of those who were once Shadowhunters are Endarkened now." A world without Shadowhunters. A world without angels. They had left the residential neighborhood behind and were rolling down what Emma guessed might be Sunset Boulevard. It was hard to tell with the street signs gone. There were other cars on the road, finally, and even a slight slowdown in traffic. Emma glanced to the side and saw a pallid vampire behind the wheel of a Subaru in the next lane. He glanced at her and winked. "We're coming to a checkpoint," Cameron said. "Let us handle this," said Livvy. "Don't talk." The car slowed to a crawl; up ahead Emma could see striped barriers. Most of the buildings along the boulevard were ruined shells. They had drawn up alongside one whose crumbling walls circled a mostly intact courtyard that had clearly once been the lobby of an office building. Demons were clustered everywhere: on piles of overturned furniture, clambering on the shattered walls, feeding from metal troughs of dark sticky stuff that might be blood. In the center of the room was a pole with a woman in a white dress tied to it, blood seeping through her dress. Her head lolled to the side as if she'd fainted. Emma started to undo her seat belt. "We have to do something." "No!" Livvy said sharply. "You'll get killed, and you'll get us killed too. We can't protect the world like that anymore." "I'm not afraid," Emma said. Livvy shot her a white-hot look of anger. "You should be." "Checkpoint," snapped Cameron, and the car shot forward and stopped at the barriers. Cam lowered the driver's-side window, and Emma nearly jumped out of her seat as an eyeless demon with a wrinkled head like an old grape leaned into the car. It wore a high-collared gray uniform, and though it had no nose or eyes, it did have a mouth that stretched across its face. "Credentials," it hissed. Cameron jerked down his sleeve and stuck out his left hand, baring his wrist. Emma caught a glimpse of a mark on his inner wrist, above his pulse point, just as the demon extruded a gray raspy tongue that looked like a long, dead worm and licked Cameron's wrist. Please, Emma thought, do not let me puke in the back of this car. I remember this car. I made out with Cameron in the back of this car. Oh God, that demon licked his wrist. The whole car stinks like demon flesh. Something covered her hand, something warm and reassuring. She blinked. Julian had wrapped his fingers around hers. The surprise brought her back to herself sharply. "Ah, Mr. Ashdown," the demon said. "I didn't realize. Have a pleasant evening." It drew back, and Cameron hit the gas. They had driven several blocks before anyone spoke. "What was that thing with--" Julian began. "The tongue! I know!" Emma said. "What the hell?" "--the demon calling you Mr. Ashdown?" Julian finished. "My family are Forsworn--loyal to the Fallen Star," said Cam shortly. "They run the Institute here for Sebastian. Members of the Legion of the Star are marked with special tattoos." Livvy showed them the inside of her right wrist, where a design was marked, a star inside a circle. The same sigil that had been on Sebastian's banners earlier. "Mine is forged. That's why Cameron is driving," Livvy said. She glanced at him with wry fondness. "His family doesn't know he's not loyal to the Star." "I can't say I'm astonished Paige and Vanessa turned out to be traitors," said Emma, and she saw Livvy flick her an odd glance. Surprise she knew who Paige and Vanessa were? Agreement? Emma wasn't sure. They had reached downtown L.A., an area that had been pretty thick with demon activity even in the regular world. Here the streets were surprisingly crowded--Emma saw vampires and faeries walking around freely, and even a repurposed convenience store advertising blood milk shakes in the window. A group of large cats scuttled by, and as they turned their heads Emma saw they had the faces of human babies. No one on the sidewalk gave them a second glance. "So Downworlders," Julian said. "How do they fit in here?" "You don't want to know," Livvy said. "We do," said Emma. "We know warlocks--we could try to get in touch with them here, get help--" "Warlocks?" Livvy snapped. "There are no warlocks. Once Sebastian opened the world to hellbeasts, the warlocks started to get sick. Some died, and as for the rest, their humanity degraded. They turned into demons." "Into demons?" Emma said. "All the way?" "What about Magnus?" said Julian. "Magnus Bane?" Emma felt a chill run over her. So far they hadn't asked after the welfare of anyone they knew. She suspected both of them found the prospect terrifying. "Magnus Bane was one of the first great tragedies," said Livvy as if she were reciting an old story everyone knew. "Bane realized he was turning into a demon. He begged his boyfriend, Alexander Lightwood, to kill him. Alec did, and then turned the sword on himself. Their bodies were found together in the ruins of New York." Julian had gone whiter than paper. Emma put her head down, feeling like she might faint. Magnus and Alec, who had always been a symbol of all that was good, so horribly gone. "So that's warlocks," said Livvy. "The Fair Folk are allied with Sebastian and mostly they live in the protected realms of Faerie, though some like to visit our world, do a little mischief. You know." "I don't think we do," Julian said. "The realms of Faerie are protected?" "The faeries were Sebastian's allies during the Dark War," said Livvy. "They lost a lot of warriors. The Seelie Queen herself was killed. Sebastian rewarded them after the war by giving them what they wanted--isolation. Entrances to Faerie are walled off from this world, and any human or even Endarkened who threatens one of the few faeries remaining in Thule is severely punished." "The Seelie Queen never had a--a child?" Julian asked. "She died without children," said Livvy. "The Unseelie King has united both Courts and rules over everything there now. His heir is Prince Erec, or at least that's what we last heard. Not a lot of news from Faerie gets out." So there was no second Ash in this world, Emma thought. Probably good, since one Ash seemed like more than enough. "As for the werewolves, the packs are all scattered," said Cameron. "You've got some lone wolves, some who've thrown their lot in with Sebastian, some are rebels with us, most were killed. Vampires are doing a bit better because demons don't like to eat them as much--they're already dead." "There are a few vampire cults that have joined up with Sebastian," said Livvy. "They worship him and believe that when they eat everyone in Thule, he will lead them through to a world of more people with more blood." "Raphael Santiago says they're idiots, and when all the people are gone, they'll starve," said Cameron. "Raphael Santiago is still alive? In our world he's dead," said Julian. "Well, there's one point for Thule," said Livvy with a crooked smile. "When we get to the building you'll see--" She broke off as a human came pelting out of an alley. A teenage boy, filthy and skinny to the point of starvation, hair hanging in matted clumps. His clothes were dirty, a ragged pack dangling from one arm. Livvy tensed. "Unsworn human," she said. "Demons can hunt them for sport. Cam--" "Livvy, we shouldn't," Cameron said. "Pull over!" Livvy snapped. Cameron slammed on the brakes, throwing them all forward; Julian was up and out of his seat, throwing his arm out to catch Livvy by the shoulder and prevent her from bumping her head. She shot him a startled look. Then she was shaking him off and powering down her window, leaning out to shout to the boy. "Over here!" The boy changed course and raced toward them. Behind him, something appeared at the mouth of the alley. Something that looked as if it were made of shadows and ragged black wings. It dived toward him at incredible speed and Livvy swore. "He's not going to make it." "He might," Cameron said. "Ten bucks." "What the hell?" Emma said. She reached for the handle of her door and shoved it open--Julian grabbed her by the sleeve of her tunic, yanking her back--and the ragged shadow was on the boy like a hawk on a mouse. He gave one terrified shriek as it seized him, and they both shot up into the air, disappearing into the ashy sky. Cam hit the gas; a few passersby were staring at them. Emma was breathing hard. Mundanes weren't supposed to be killed by demons. Shadowhunters were supposed to be able to help. But there were no Shadowhunters here. "You owe me four thousand dollars, Cam," Livvy said tonelessly. "Yeah," said Cameron. "I'll repay you as soon as the international banking system is reestablished." "What about our family?" Julian said abruptly. He let go of Emma's sleeve; she'd almost forgotten he was holding on to her. "Are any of them here, Livia?" Livvy's mouth flattened into a tense line. "I'm still not convinced you're Julian," she said. "And my family is my business." They turned abruptly off the street, and for a moment Emma thought they were going to plow into the side of a familiar brown brick structure: the famous downtown Bradbury Building, surprisingly still standing. At what felt like the last minute, a sheet of bricks and sandstone rose up out of the way and they pulled into a cavernous dark space. A garage. They piled out of the car, and Cameron went over to chat with a girl in camo pants and a black tank top who was turning a metal crank that slid the garage door closed. It was a massive slab of brick and metal operated by a cleverly jointed set of gears. "Were on our own generator here," said Livvy. "And we do a lot of stuff by hand. We don't need the Forsworn tracing us by our electricity usage." She tossed her shotgun back into the car. "Come on." They followed her to a door that led into a spacious entryway. It was clear they were inside a large office building. The walls were brick and marble, the floor tiled, and above her she could see an intricate maze of catwalks, metal staircases, and the glint of old ironwork. Livvy narrowed her eyes at both of them. "Okay," she said slowly. "Okay, what?" said Emma. "You just passed through a corridor whose walls were packed with salt, gold, and cold iron," Livvy said. "A crazy old millionaire built this place. He believed in ghosts and he stuffed the building with everything that's meant to repel the supernatural. Some of it does still work." The door behind them banged. Cameron had returned. "Divya says Diana's not back yet," he said. "You want me to take these two upstairs to wait?" "Yeah." Livvy rubbed the back of her hand across her forehead tiredly. "They made it in here. Maybe they are harmless." "You mean maybe I'm really your brother," said Julian. Livvy's back stiffened. "I didn't say that." She gestured at Cameron. "Take them to one of the newbie rooms. Make sure there are guards on the floor." Without another word, she turned and walked away, heading for one of the iron staircases. Julian exhaled sharply, staring after her. Emma couldn't help it; her heart ached at his expression. He looked as if he were being crushed from the inside out. The image of him cradling his sister's body as she bled out in the Council Hall rose like a nightmare behind her eyes. She caught up with Livvy in the stairwell; Livvy turned to her, and the scars on her face cut at Emma again as if she could feel the pain of getting them. "Seriously?" Livvy said. "What do you want?" "Come on, Livvy," said Emma, and Livvy raised her eyebrows. "You know it's really Julian. In your heart, you know. In the car he tried to protect you from bumping your head, just like he always has; he can't help himself. Nobody could act that, or fake it." Livvy tensed. "You don't understand. I can't--" "Take this." Emma shoved her phone into Livvy's hands. Livvy stared at it as if she'd never seen an iPhone before. Then she shook her head. "You might be surprised to hear this, but we don't really get much cell reception here," she said. "Cute," said Emma. "I want you to look at the photos." She jabbed at the phone with a shaking finger. "Pictures of the last five years. Look--here's Dru." She heard Livvy suck in her breath. "And Mark at the beach, and here's Helen and Aline's wedding. And Ty, last month--" Livvy made a half-choked noise. "Ty is alive in your world?" Emma froze. "Yes," she whispered. "Yes, of course he is." Livvy tightened her hand on the phone. She turned and fled up the stairs, her boots clanging against the iron framework. But not before Emma saw that her eyes were shining with tears. <|title|>Chapter 18: Hell Rising <|startofchapter|>As Julian and Emma followed Cameron through the Bradbury lobby, they passed several other groups of Livvy's rebels. That was what Julian was calling them in his mind, anyway. These were Livvy's people; she was clearly important here. He felt proud of her at the same time that he felt a thousand other emotions tearing through him--joy, despair, horror, fear, grief, and love and hope. They battered at him like the sea at high tide. And yearning, too. A yearning for Emma that felt like knives in his blood. When she spoke, he couldn't stop staring at her mouth, the way her top lip curved like a perfectly made bow. Was this why he'd begged Magnus to turn his feelings for her off? He couldn't remember if it had been like this before, or if now was worse. He was drowning. "Look," Emma whispered, touching his arm, and his skin burned where she touched him and, Stop, he told himself fiercely. Stop. "It's Maia Roberts and Bat Velasquez." Thankful for the distraction, Julian glanced over to see the girl who was the werewolf representative to the Council in his reality. Her hair was in two thick braids, and she was descending a set of stairs next to a handsome, scarred boy who Julian recognized as her boyfriend. Like Livvy, their clothes looked like they'd been scrounged from an army-navy store. Military jackets, camo, boots, and bullet belts. There were a lot of bullets in this world. The front doors of the building had been boarded up, the boards glopped with cement to hold them in place. Rows of nails next to the doors held guns of all shapes and sizes; boxes of ammo were stacked on the floor. On the wall nearby someone had written ANGELS AND MINISTERS OF GRACE DEFEND US in red paint. They followed Cameron up another set of wood-and-iron stairs. The inside of the building had probably been breathtakingly beautiful once, when light had streamed in through the windows and the glass roof overhead. Even now it was striking, though the windows and roof were boarded over, the terra- cotta walls cracked. Electric lights burned sodium yellow, and the web of stairs and catwalks angled blackly through the twilight gloom as they passed rebel guards armed with pistols. "Lot of guns," said Emma, a little dubiously, as they reached the top floor. "Bullets don't work on demons, but they'll still take down a bad vamp or an Endarkened," said Cameron. They were passing along a walkway. Beyond the iron balustrade on the left side was the yawning darkness of the atrium; the right wall was lined with doors. "There used to be a branch of the LAPD in this building, you know, back when there were police. Demons took them out in minutes, but they left behind plenty of Glocks." He paused. "Here we are." He pushed open a plain wooden door and flicked on the light. Julian followed Emma into the room: It had clearly once been an office, repurposed into a bedroom. Newbie rooms, Livvy had said. There was a desk and an open wardrobe where a motley collection of clothes hung. The walls were pale stucco and warm old wood, and through a doorway Julian could glimpse a small tiled bathroom. Someone seemed to have taken the time to try to make the place look a little nice--a sheet of metal covered the single window, but it had been painted a dark blue dotted with small yellow stars, and there was a colorful blanket on the bed. "Sorry the bed's not bigger," said Cameron. "We don't get too many couples. There are condoms in the nightstand drawer, too." He said it matter-of-factly. Emma blushed. Julian tried to stay expressionless. "Someone will bring you some food," Cameron added. "There are energy bars and Gatorade in the wardrobe if you can't wait. Don't try to leave the room--there are guards all over." He hesitated in the doorway. "And, uh, welcome," he added, a little awkwardly, and left. Emma wasted no time in raiding the wardrobe for energy bars, and turned up a small bag of potato chips as a bonus. "You want half?" she asked, tossing Julian a bar and holding up the chips. "No." He knew he should be ravenous. He could barely remember the last time they'd eaten. But he actually felt a little sick. He was alone with Emma now, and it was overwhelming. "If Ash is here, where's Annabel?" she said. "They came through the Portal together." "She could be anywhere in Thule," Julian said. "Even if she figured out a way to return to our world, I doubt she'd leave Ash." Emma sighed. "Speaking of which, I guess we should talk about how we try to get home. It can't be impossible. If we could get into Faerie somehow-- there might be someone there, someone who can do magic--" "Didn't Livvy say the entrances to Faerie were walled off?" "We've made it through walls before," Emma said quietly, and he knew she was thinking, as he was, of the thorns around the Unseelie Tower. "I know." Julian couldn't stop staring at her. They were both filthy, both bloody and hungry and exhausted. But against the darkness and chaos of this world, his Emma burned brighter than ever. "Why are you looking at me like that?" she said. She tossed the empty chip bag into a metal wastebasket. "Eat your energy bar, Julian." He peeled the wrapper off, clearing his throat. "I should probably sleep on the floor." She stopped pacing. "If you want," she said. "I guess in this world we were always a couple. Not parabatai. I mean, that makes sense. If the Dark War hadn't turned out like it did, we never would have..." "How long were we even together here, before we were Endarkened?" Julian said. "Maybe Livvy will tell us. I mean, I know she's not really Livvy. Not our Livvy. She's Livvy that could have been." "She's alive," Julian said. He stared down at his energy bar. The thought of eating it made him nauseous. "And she's been through hell. And I wasn't here to protect her." Emma's brown eyes were dark and direct. "Do you care?" He met her gaze, and for the first time in what felt like forever, he could feel what she was feeling, as he'd been able to for so long. He felt her wariness, her bone-deep hurt, and he knew he'd been the one to hurt her. He'd rejected her over and over, pushed her away, told her he felt nothing. "Emma." His voice was scratchy. "The spell--it's broken." "What?" "When Livvy and Cameron said there was no magic here, they meant it. The spell Magnus put on me, it's not working here. I can feel things again." Emma just stared. "You mean about me?" "Yeah." When she didn't move, Julian took a step forward and put his arms around her. She stood as stiffly as a wooden carving, her arms at her sides. It was like hugging a statue. "I feel everything," he said desperately. "I feel like I did before." She pulled away from him. "Well, maybe I don't." "Emma--" He didn't move toward her. She deserved her space. She deserved whatever she wanted. She must have dammed up so many words while he'd been under the spell, words it would have been completely pointless to say to his emotionless self. He could only imagine the control it must have taken. "What do you mean?" "You hurt me," Emma said. "You hurt me a lot." She took a shuddering breath. "I know you did it because of a spell, but you had that spell cast on yourself without thinking about how it would affect me or your family or your role as a Shadowhunter. And I hate to tell you all this now, because we're in this terrible place and you just found out your sister is alive, sort of, and she looks kind of like Mad Max, which is cool actually, but this is the only place I can tell you, because when we get home--if we ever get home--you won't care." She paused, breathing as if she'd been running. "Okay. Fine. I'm going to take a shower. If you even think about following me into the bathroom to talk, I'll shoot you." "You don't have a gun," Julian pointed out. It wasn't a helpful thing to say --Emma stalked into the bathroom and slammed the door behind her. A moment later, there was the sound of running water. Julian sank down onto the bed. After having his soul wrapped in cotton wool for so long, the new rawness of emotion felt like razor wire cutting into his heart every time it expanded with a breath. But it wasn't just pain. There was the bright current of joy that was seeing Livvy, hearing her voice. Of pride in watching Emma burn like fire in the Arctic, like the northern lights. A voice seemed to ring in his head, clear as a bell; it was the Seelie Queen's voice. Have you ever wondered how we lure mortals to live amongst faeries and serve us, son of thorns? We choose those who have lost something and promise them that which humans desire most of all, a cessation to their grief and suffering. Little do they know that once they enter our Lands, they are in the cage and will never again feel happiness. You are in that cage, hoy. The Queen was deceitful, but sometimes right. Grief could be like a wolf tearing your insides, and you would do anything to make it stop. He remembered his despair as he looked in the mirror in Alicante and knew that he had lost Livvy and would soon lose Emma, too. He had gone to Magnus like a shipwrecked man struggling onto a lonely rock, knowing he might die the next day of heat or thirst, but desperate to escape the tempest. And then the tempest had been gone. He had been in the eye of the hurricane, the storm around him, but he had been untouched. It had felt like a cessation to suffering. Only now did he recognize what he couldn't see before: that he had been going through life with a black hole at the center of him, a space like the emptiness between Portals. Even at the moments when an emotion was so strong it seemed to pierce the veil, he had felt it at a sort of colorless, glassy remove--Ty atop Livvy's pyre, Emma as the thorns of the hedge tore at her. He could see her now, all black and white, the only spots of color where the blood had been drawn. There was a knock on the door. Julian's throat was too tight for him to speak, but it didn't seem to matter: Cameron Ashdown barged in anyway, carrying a pile of clothes. He dumped them into the wardrobe, went back to the hallway, and returned with a box of canned food, toothpaste, soap, and other basics. Dropping it on the desk, he rolled his shoulders back with an exaggerated sigh. "Jeans and turtlenecks, gloves and boots. If you go back outside, cover up as much as you can to hide your runes. There's concealer, too, if you want to get fancy. Need anything else?" Julian gave him a long look. "Yeah," he said finally. "Actually, I do." Cameron had only just gone off muttering when Julian heard the water in the bathroom switch off. A moment later Emma appeared, wrapped in a towel, cheeks pink and glowing. Had she always looked like that? Such intense colors, the gold of her hair, black Marks against pale skin, the soft brown of her eyes-- "I'm sorry," he said as she reached for the clothes on the bed. She froze. "I'm only just starting to understand how sorry I am." She went into the bathroom and came out a moment later dressed in black cargo pants and a green tank top. The permanent Marks twining her arms looked stark and startling, a reminder that no one else here had them. "Whoever was eyeballing our sizes has way overestimated my attributes," she said, buckling her belt. "The bra they gave me is huge. I could wear it as a hat." Cameron barged back in without knocking again. "Got what you asked for," he said, and dumped a pile of pencils and a Canson sketch pad into Julian's lap. "Have to admit, it's a first. Most newbies ask for chocolate." "Do you have chocolate?" Emma said. "No," said Cameron, and stomped back out of the room. Emma watched him go with a bemused expression. "I really like this new Cameron," she said. "Who knew he had it in him to be such a badass? He was such a nice guy, but..." "He always had kind of a secret side," Julian said. He wondered if there was something about suddenly getting his emotions back that meant he didn't feel like covering things up. Maybe he'd regret it later. "A while ago, he approached Diana, because he was pretty sure Anselm Nightshade was murdering werewolf children. He couldn't prove it, but he had some good reasons for thinking it. His family kept telling him to drop it, that Nightshade had powerful friends. So he brought it to us--to the Institute." "That's why you had Nightshade arrested," said Emma, realizing. "You wanted the Clave to be able to search his house." "Diana told me they found a basement full of bones," said Julian. "Werewolf children, just like Cameron said. They tested the stuff in the restaurant and there was death magic all over the place. Cameron was right, and he stood up to his family, in his own way. And he did it for Downworlders that he didn't know." "You never said anything," Emma said. "Not about Cameron, or about you --why you really got Anselm arrested. There are people who still blame you." He gave her a rueful smile. "Sometimes you have to let people blame you. When the only other option is letting bad things happen, it doesn't matter what people think." She didn't reply. When he glanced over at her, she looked as if she'd forgotten all about Cameron and Nightshade. Her eyes were wide and luminous as she reached out to touch a few of the Prismacolors that had rolled onto the bed. "You asked for art supplies?" she whispered. Julian looked down at his hands. "All this time, since the spell, I've been walking around missing the whole center of myself, but the thing is--I didn't even notice. Not consciously. But I felt it. I was living in black and white and now the color is back." He exhaled. "I'm saying it all wrong." "No," Emma said, "I think I get it. You mean that the part of you that feels is also the part of you that creates things." "They always say faeries steal human children because they can't make art or music of their own. Neither can warlocks or vampires. It requires mortality to make art. The knowledge of death, of things limited. There is fire inside us, Emma, and as it blazes, it burns us, and the burning causes pain--but without its light, I cannot see to draw." "Then draw now," she said, her voice husky. She pressed several pencils into his open hand and began to turn away. "I'm sorry," he said again. "I shouldn't burden you." "You're not burdening me," she said, still facing away. "You're reminding me why I love you." The words caught at his heart, sharp with a painful joy. "You're not off the hook, though," she added, and went over to the wardrobe. He left her alone to rifle through the pairs of socks and shoes, looking for something that might fit. He wanted to talk to her--talk to her forever, about everything--but that had to be at her discretion. Not his. Instead he put pencil to paper and let his imagination go, let the images that rose up inside him and captured his brain flow out in Alicante silver and Seelie green, in Unseelie black and blood red. He drew the King on his throne, pale and powerful and unhappy. He drew Annabel holding Ash's hand. He drew Emma with Cortana, surrounded by thorns. He drew Drusilla, all in black, a murder of crows circling behind her. He was conscious that Emma had come to lie down beside him and was watching him with quiet curiosity, her head propped on her arm. She was half-asleep, lips parted, when the door banged open again. Julian threw the sketchbook down. "Look, Cameron--" But it wasn't Cameron. It was Livvy. She had taken off her Sam Browne ammo belt, but otherwise looked much the same. In the brighter light of the bedroom, Julian could see the shadows smudged under her eyes. "Cameron said you asked for a sketch pad and pencils," she said in a near whisper. Julian didn't move. He half felt as if any movement would spook her, as if he were trying to lure a nervous forest creature closer. "Do you want to see?" Julian held out the sketch pad; she took it and flipped through it, slowly and then faster. Emma was sitting up now, clutching one of the pillows. Livvy thrust the sketch pad back at Julian. She was looking down; he couldn't see her face, only twin fringes of dark lashes. He felt a twinge of disappointment. She doesn't believe me; the pictures meant nothing to her. I'm nothing to her. "No one draws like my brother," she said, taking a deep breath and letting it out slowly. She lifted her head and looked directly at Julian with a sort of bewilderment that was half hurt, half hope. "But you do." "You remember when I tried to teach you to draw, when you were nine?" said Julian. "And you snapped all my pencils?" Something almost like a smile touched the edge of Livvy's mouth. For a moment, she was familiar Livvy, despite the scars and black leather. A second later it was as if a mask had passed across her face, and she was a different Livia, a rebel leader, a scarred warrior. "You don't need to try to convince me anymore," she said. She turned away, her movements precise and military. "Finish getting cleaned up. I'll meet you two in the main office in an hour." "Did we ever date in this world?" Emma said. "You know, you and me." Cameron nearly fell down several metal steps. They were in the maze of stairs and catwalks that crisscrossed the inside of the Bradbury Building. "Of course not!" Emma felt mildly stung. She knew it wasn't a big deal, considering, but sometimes you wanted to focus on something trivial to take your mind off the apocalypse. Cameron in her world had been almost embarrassingly devoted, always coming back after they broke up, sending love notes and flowers and sad llama pictures. "You were always with Julian," Cameron added. "Aren't you together in your world?" "I'm right here," Julian said in the deceptively mild tone that meant he was annoyed. "I mean, yes," Emma said. "At least, we're on and off. Sometimes very on, sometimes very off. You and I dated briefly, is all." "We don't really have time for that kind of personal drama here," Cameron said. "It's hard to focus on your love life when giant spiders are chasing you." Cameron was pretty funny here, Emma thought. If he'd been this amusing at home, their relationship might have lasted longer. "When you say 'giant,' how giant exactly?" she said. "Bigger than Dumpsters?" "Not the babies," Cameron said, and gave them a horrible smile. "We're here--go on in, and don't tell Livvy we dated in your world, because it's weird." They found Livvy in another repurposed office--this one had clearly once been more of a loft, big and airy and probably full of light before the windows had been covered. Strips of brick alternated with polished wood on the walls, and dozens of vintage fruit labels advertising California apples, pears, and oranges hung between the boarded-up windows. A group of four sleek, modern couches formed a square around a glass coffee table. Livvy was lounging on one of the couches, drinking a glass of something dark brown. "That's not alcohol, is it?" Julian sounded appalled. "You shouldn't be drinking." "You'll be drinking tomorrow," Livvy said, and pointed at a bottle of Jack Daniel's on the glass table. "Just saying." She waved a hand. "Sit down." They settled themselves on the couch opposite her. There was a fireplace in the room too, but the grate had been plugged with metal some time ago. Someone with a sense of humor had painted flames on the metal. It was too bad. Emma would have liked a fire. It would have felt like something natural. Livvy turned her glass around in her scarred hands. "So I believe you," she said. "You are who you say you are. Which means I know what you want to ask me." "Yeah," Julian said. He cleared his throat. "Mark?" he said. "Ty? Helen, and Dru--" "But you also probably want to get out of here," Livvy interrupted. "Since you ended up here by accident and your world sounds like a much better place." "We have to leave," Emma said. "There are people at home who could be hurt or even killed if we don't come back--" "But we want to take you with us," Julian said. Emma had known he was going to say it; they hadn't discussed it, but it had never been a question. Of course Julian would want Livvy to come back with them. Livvy gave a long, slow nod. "Right," she said. "Do you have a reason to think that there's any way you can get back at all? Inter dimensional travel isn't exactly easy." "We'd only just started to discuss it," Emma said. "But we'll think of something." She spoke with more confidence than she felt. Livvy held up a hand. "If there's any chance you can get away, are you really sure that you want to know what happened to--to everyone? Because I wish every single day that I didn't." Without taking his eyes off Livvy, Julian said, "What I wish is that I could've been here for you." Livvy's gaze was distant. "You were, I guess. Both of you." She pulled her knees up under her. "You saved our lives when you sacrificed yourselves to get us out of Manhattan the day it fell." Emma shivered. "New York? Why were we in New York?" "The Battle of the Burren was when everything went wrong," said Livvy. "Clary was there, Alec and Isabelle Lightwood, Magnus Bane--and Helen and Aline, of course. They were winning. Jace was under Sebastian's thrall, but Clary was wielding Glorious, the sword of the Angel of Paradise. She was about to break him free when Lilith appeared. She cast the sword into Hell and cut Clary down. Helen and the others were lucky to escape with their lives. "That was Sebastian's great victory. After that he joined forces with the Fair Folk. They stormed Alicante while we hid in the Hall of Accords. The Shadowhunters fought--our father fought--but Sebastian was too powerful. As Alicante fell to his forces, a group of warlocks opened up a Portal for the children. Just people under fifteen. We had to leave Helen and Mark behind. Dru was screaming as they ripped her out of Helen's arms and drove us through the Portal to Manhattan. "Catarina Loss and Magnus Bane had set up a temporary shelter there. The war raged on in Idris. We got a message from Helen. Mark had been taken by the Fair Folk. She didn't know what they would do to him. I still don't know. I hope he's in Faerie and it's green and bright and he's forgotten all of us." "He hasn't," Julian said in a low voice. "Mark doesn't forget." Livvy just blinked, fast, as if her eyes stung. "Helen and Aline hung on, fighting. Sometimes we got a fire-message from them. We heard that strange gray patches started to appear in Brocelind Forest. They called them the 'blight.' They turned out to be doorways for demons." "Doorways for demons?" Emma demanded, sitting up straight, but Livvy was caught up in her story, turning her glass over and over in her hands so fast Emma was surprised it hadn't started sparking. "Demons flooded into Idris. The Fair Folk and Endarkened drove the Shadowhunters out of Alicante, and the demons finished them off. We were in New York when we learned Idris had fallen. Everyone wanted to know the names of the dead, but there was no information. We couldn't find out what had happened to Helen and Aline, if they'd lived or been Endarkened--we didn't know. "We did know we wouldn't be safe for long. Sebastian didn't care about keeping secrets from the human world. He wanted to burn it all down. Demons began to appear everywhere, running rampant, slaughtering humans in the streets. The blight spread, appearing all over the world. It poisoned everything it touched and the warlocks started to sicken. "After two months the shelter was destroyed. The streets were full of monsters, and the warlocks were getting sicker and sicker. The more powerful they were, the more magic they'd used, the quicker they got sick and the more likely they were to turn into demons. Catarina fled so she wouldn't hurt anyone. You heard what happened to Alec and Magnus. The shelter collapsed and the kids spilled into the streets." She looked at Julian. "It was winter. We had nowhere to go. But you kept us together. You said, at all costs, we stay together. We live because we're together. We never leave each other." Julian cleared his throat. "That sounds right." Livvy's eyes bored into him. "Before she left, Catarina Loss arranged for a bunch of trains to take Shadowhunter and Downworlder kids across the country. The demons were spreading east to west, and the rumor was that California was pretty clear. We left from White Plains station--we walked all night, and you carried Tavvy. He was so hungry. We were all hungry. You kept trying to give us your food, especially Ty. We got to the station and the last train was leaving. That's when we saw them. The Endarkened. They came for us in their red gear, like a rain of blood. They were going to kill us all before we got on that train. "You didn't even kiss us good-bye," Livvy said, her voice remote. "You just shoved us toward the trains. You shouted at us to get on, told me to look after the younger ones. And you went for the Endarkened with your swords out. We could see you fighting them as the train pulled out--just the two of you and fifty Endarkened, in the snow." At least we went down protecting them, Emma thought. It was cold comfort. "And then there were four," Livvy said, and reached for the whiskey bottle. "Me and Ty, Dru and Tavvy. I did what you said. I looked after them. The trains inched through the winter. We met Cameron somewhere around Chicago--we'd all started going from train to train by then, trading food for matches, that sort of thing. Cameron said we should go to L.A., that his sister was there and she said things were okay. "Of course when we hit Union Station, it turned out Paige Ashdown had joined the Legion of the Star. That's what they were calling themselves. Traitors, we called them. She was standing there grinning bloody murder with a dozen Endarkened around her. Cameron gave me a shove, and Ty and I ran. We were dragging Dru and Tavvy with us. They were crying and screaming. They'd thought they were coming home. "I don't think we realized until then how bad things had gotten. Demons hunted unsworn humans through the streets, and there was nothing we could do. Our Marks were fading. We were getting weaker every day. Runes and seraph blades didn't work. We had nothing to fight demons with, so we hid. Like cowards." "By the Angel, Livvy, you can't have been expected to do anything else. You were ten," Emma said. "No one says 'By the Angel' anymore." Livvy poured out a measure of Jack Daniel's and recapped the bottle. "At least it wasn't cold. I remembered what you'd said, Jules, to take care of the younger ones. Ty isn't--he wasn't--really younger than me, but he was shattered. His whole heart was broken when we lost you. He loved you so much, Jules." Julian didn't speak. He was pale as the snow in Livvy's story. Emma slid her hand across the couch, touched her fingers to his. They were icy. This world was the pure distilled essence of his nightmares, Emma thought. A place where his siblings had been ripped from him, where he couldn't protect them as the world fell down around them in darkness and flame. "We slept in alleys, in the abandoned houses of murdered humans," Livvy said. "We scrounged for food in supermarkets. We never stayed in the same place for more than two nights. Tavvy screamed himself to sleep in my arms every night, but we were careful. I thought we were careful. We slept inside rings of salt and iron. I tried, but..." She took a swallow of whiskey. Emma would have choked; Livvy seemed used to it. "One night we were sleeping on the street. In the ruins of the Grove. There were still stores with food and clothes there. I'd surrounded us with salt, but a Shinagami demon came from above--it was a fast blur with wings and talons like knives. It snatched Tavvy away from me--we were both screaming." She took a ragged breath. "There was this stupid ornamental fountain. Ty jumped up onto the side and attacked the Shinagami with a throwing knife. I think he hit it, but without runes, there's just--you can't hurt them. It was still holding Tavvy. It just turned around and slashed out with a talon and cut Ty-Ty's throat." She didn't seem to notice or care that she'd called him by his baby name. She was gripping her glass tightly, her eyes blank and haunted. "My Ty, he fell into the fountain and it was all water and blood. The Shinagami was gone. Tavvy was gone. I hauled Ty out, but he was dead in my arms." Dead in my arms. Emma tightened her grip on Julian's hand, seeing him on the Council Hall dais, holding Livvy as the life and the blood went out of her. "I kissed him. I told him I loved him. And I went and got a jug of gasoline and burned his body so the demons wouldn't find it." Livvy's mouth twisted. "And then it was just me and Dru." "Livia ..." Julian leaned forward, but his sister held up a hand as if to ward off whatever he was going to say next. "Let me finish," she said. "I've gotten this far." She took another drink and closed her eyes. "After that, Dru stopped talking. I told her we were going to go to the Institute and get help. She didn't say anything. I knew there wasn't any help there. But I thought maybe we could join the Legion of the Star--I didn't care anymore. We were walking along the highway when a car pulled up. It was Cameron. "He could see we were bloody and starving. And that there were only two of us. He didn't ask questions. He told us about this place, the Bradbury Building. He was tapped into the resistance. It was tiny then, but there were two ex-Shadowhunters who had once hunted a demon here. They said it was an old, strong building full of salt and iron, easy to lock down. Plus because of the LAPD leasing space, there was a stockpile of weapons here. "We joined up with the others and helped them break in. Even Dru helped, though she still wasn't talking. We started to reinforce the building and spread the word that those resisting Sebastian were welcome here. People came from New York, from Canada and Mexico, from all over. We slowly built up the population, made a haven for refugees." "So Dru is still--?" Emma began eagerly, but Livvy went on. "Two years ago she went out with a scouting party. Never came back. It happens all the time." "Did you look for her?" Julian said. Livvy turned a flat gaze on him. "We don't go after people here," she said. "We don't do rescue missions. They get more people killed. If I disappeared, I wouldn't expect anyone to come after me. I'd hope they wouldn't be that stupid." She set her glass down. "Anyway, now you know. That's the story." They stared at each other, the three of them, for a long moment. Then Julian stood up. He went around the table and lifted Livvy up and hugged her, so tightly that Emma saw her gasp in surprise. Don't push him away, she thought, please, don't. Livvy didn't. She squeezed her eyes shut and grabbed onto Julian. They stood hugging each other for a long moment like two drowning people clinging to the same life raft. Livvy pressed her face against Julian's shoulder and gave a single, dry sob. Emma stumbled to her feet and over to them, not inserting herself into the hug but gently stroking Livvy's hair. Livvy raised her head from Julian's shoulder and offered her a tiny smile. "We're going to get back to our world," Julian said. "Ty is alive there. Everyone's alive there. We'll take you with us. You belong there, not here." Emma waited for Livvy to ask about her own fate in their world, but she didn't. Instead she pulled a little away from Julian and shook her head--not angrily, but with immense sadness. "There are things I have to do here," she said. "It's not like we're just walled up here waiting to die. We're fighting, Jules." "Jesus, Livs," he said in a half-broken voice. "It's so dangerous--" "I know," she said, and patted his face lightly, the way she had sometimes when she was a very little girl, as if the familiar shape of his features was reassuring. Then she stepped away, breaking the hug. She smoothed her hair back and said, "I didn't tell you about the Silent Brothers." "The Silent Brothers?" Emma was puzzled. "When Idris fell, the Silent Brothers were killed, but before they died they sealed the Silent City, with the Mortal Cup and Mortal Sword inside it. No one could get in. Not even Sebastian. And he wants to, desperately." "Why does he want the Mortal Instruments?" said Julian. "He has a version of the Cup that controls the Endarkened," said Livvy. "But he wants to master us. He thinks if he can get the Mortal Instruments together, he can control what remains of the Nephilim--turn us from rebels into slaves." "Sebastian said something on the beach," Emma recalled, "about the Mortal Instruments." "We have people on the inside, like Cameron," said Livvy. "The rumor is that Sebastian is getting closer to figuring out a way into the City." She hesitated. "That would be the end of us. All we can do is hope he doesn't make it, or that the progress is slow. We can't stop him." Emma and Julian stared at each other. "What if we could find a warlock?" Emma suggested. "Someone who could help you get into the Silent City first?" Livvy hesitated. "I like your enthusiasm," she said. "But the warlocks are all dead or demons." "Hear me out," Emma said. She was thinking of Cristina, in the Unseelie Court: It's not the ley lines. It's the blight. "You were talking about how the demons came into Idris through patches of blight. We have those in our world too, though demons aren't coming through yet. And our warlocks are also getting sick--the oldest and most powerful first. They're not turning into demons--not yet, anyway--but the illness is the same." "And?" Julian said. He was looking at her with thoughtful respect. Emma had always been praised for her fighting skills, but only Julian had been there to reassure her she was smart and capable, too. She realized suddenly how much she'd missed that. "In our world, there's one warlock who is immune to the sickness," said Emma. "Tessa Gray. If she's immune here, too, she might be able to help us." Livvy was staring. "There are rumors of the Last Warlock, but I've never seen Tessa here in Los Angeles. I don't even know if she's still alive." "I have a way to contact her." Emma held up her hand. "This ring. Maybe it will work here. It's worth a shot." Livvy looked from the ring to Emma. She spoke slowly. "I remember that ring. You used to wear it. Brother Zachariah gave it to you while we were in Manhattan, but it was lost when you--when Emma was lost." A spark of hope flared in Emma's heart. "He gave it to me in my world too," she said. "It could work here if Tessa still has the other one." Livvy didn't say anything. Emma had a feeling she'd long ago given up believing things were worth a shot. "Let me just try," Emma said, and swung her left hand hard against one of the concrete pillars. The glass bauble in the ring smashed, and the metal of the ring darkened, suddenly splotched with markings like rust or blood. The prongs that had held the glass disappeared--the ring was now just a metal band. Livvy exhaled. "Real magic," she said. "I haven't seen that in a long time." "Seems like a good sign," said Julian. "If Tessa is still here, she might have powers that still work." It seemed like a spiderweb-thin string to hang hope on, Emma thought. But what else did they have? Livvy went over to one of the desks and returned with Emma's phone. "Here you go," she said a little reluctantly. "Keep it if you want it," Emma said; she knew Julian was looking at her, his eyebrows raised in surprise. "Really--" "The battery's dying anyway," Livvy said, but there was something else in her voice, something that said it hurt to look at the pictures of a life that had been taken from her. "Ty grew up so handsome," she added. "The girls must be all over him. Or the boys," she added with a sideways smile that faded quickly. "Anyway. You take it." Emma put the phone into her pocket. As Livvy turned away, Emma thought she caught sight of the edge of a black Mark just under the collar of Livvy's T-shirt. She blinked--weren't there no Marks here? It looked like the curlicue of a mourning rune. Livvy flopped back down on the couch. "Well, there's no point waiting here," she said. "It'll just make us tense. You guys go and get some sleep. If nothing happens by tomorrow afternoon, we can regroup." Emma and Julian made for the exit. At the door, Julian hesitated. "I was wondering," he said. "Is this place any better by daylight?" Livvy had been studying her hands, with their patterns of scars. She raised her eyes and for a moment they blazed, familiar Blackthorn blue. "Just you wait," she said. Pajamas didn't seem to be a thing in Thule. After showering, Julian sat on the bed in a pair of sweatpants and a T-shirt, staring at the painted metal window with its false silver stars. He was thinking of Mark. When Mark had been a captive of the Wild Hunt, every night he had counted out his brothers' and sisters' names on the points of light wheeling above. In Thule you couldn't see the stars. What had Livvy done? How had she remembered them all? Or had it been less painful to try to forget? Mark had thought his siblings were alive and happy without him. Livvy knew they were dead or in thrall. Which was worse? "She didn't ask," he said as Emma came out of the bathroom in her tank top and a pair of boxer briefs. "Livvy--she didn't ask about our world. Nothing at all." Emma sank onto the bed beside him. She had pulled her hair back in a braid; he could feel the warmth of her and smell the soap on her skin. His insides tightened. "Can you blame her? Our world's not perfect. But it isn't this. It isn't a whole world of birthdays she missed, and growing up she didn't get to see, and comfort she never got." "She's alive here, though," Julian said. "Julian." Emma touched his face lightly. He wanted to lean into the touch but held himself back with a body-tensing effort. "She's surviving here." "And there's a difference?" She gave him a long look before dropping her hand and settling back against the pillows. "You know there is." She lay on her side, tendrils of pale hair escaping from her braid, gold against the white pillows. Her eyes were the color of polished wood, her body curved like a violin. Julian wanted to grab his sketch pad, to draw her, the way he always had when his feelings for her grew too intense. His heart exploding paint and colors because he could not speak the words. "Do you want me to sleep on the floor?" he asked. His voice was husky. Nothing he could do about that. She shook her head, still looking at him with those enormous eyes. "I was thinking," she said. "If Shadowhunter magic is gone here ... If seraph blades don't work, or angelic magic..." "Then our parabatai bond is probably broken," he finished. "I thought of that too." "But we can't be sure," she said. "I mean, I guess we could try to do something, to make something happen, the way we burned that church...." "Probably not a good idea to experiment with arson." Julian could feel his heart beating. Emma was leaning closer to him. He could see the smooth curve of her collarbone, the place where her tanned skin grew paler. He dragged his gaze away. "We could try the other thing," she said. "You know. Kissing." "Emma--" "I feel it when we kiss." Her pupils were enormous. "I know you do too. The bond." It was like having helium pumped into his blood. He felt light as air. "You're sure? You absolutely want this?" "Yeah." She settled back farther into the pillows. She was looking up at him now, her stubborn chin tilted up, her elbows on the bed. Her legs sprawled out, long and glorious. He slid closer to her. He could see her pulse beating in her throat. Her lips parted, her voice low: "I want this." He moved over her, not touching her yet, his body a whisper from hers. He saw her eyes darken. She wriggled under him, her legs sliding against his. "Emma," he rasped. "What happened to that bra? You know, the enormous one?" She grinned. "I went without." The air in the room felt suddenly superheated. Julian tried to breathe normally, despite knowing that if he slid his hands up under Emma's tank top he would encounter only soft skin and bare curves. But she hadn't asked him to do that. She'd asked for a kiss. He propped himself over her, a hand on either side of her head. Slowly, he lowered himself: exquisitely slowly, until their mouths were an inch apart. He could feel her warm breath against his face. Still, their bodies were barely touching. She moved restlessly under him, her fingers digging into the coverlet. "Kiss me," she murmured, and he bent to brush his lips over hers--just a brush, the lightest of touches. She chased his lips with her own; he turned his face to the side, tracing the same warm, light touch along her jaw, her cheek. When he reached her mouth again she was gasping, her eyes half-closed. He drew her lower lip into his mouth, running his tongue along it, tracing the curve, the sensitive corners. She gasped again, pressing her back deeper into the cushions, her body arching. He felt her breasts brush against his chest, sending a shot of heat directly to his groin. He dug his fingers into the mattress, willing himself to keep control. To give her only and exactly what she'd asked for. A kiss. He sucked and licked at her bottom lip, traced the bow shape of the upper. Licked along the seam of the two until her lips parted and he sealed his mouth to hers, all heat and wetness and the taste of her, mint and tea. She wrapped her hands around his biceps, arching up against him as they kissed on and on. Her body was soft and warm; she was moaning into his mouth, dragging her heels up the backs of his calves, her hands sliding to his shirt, fingers curling under-- She broke away. She was breathing as if she'd been running a marathon, her lips damp and pink from kissing, her cheeks flaming. "Holy f--" she began, then coughed and blushed. "Have you been practicing?" "No," Julian said. He was proud of himself for managing an entire syllable. He decided to try out a sentence. "I have not." "Okay," Emma breathed. "Okay. No one's on fire, no parabatai weirdness in evidence. That's about as much testing as I'm up for right now." Julian rolled carefully onto his side. "But I can still sleep on the bed, right?" Her lips curled into a smile. "I think you've earned that, yeah." "I can scooch all the way to the edge," he offered. "Don't push it, Julian," she said, and rolled against him, her body curling into his. He put his arms tentatively around her, and she burrowed closer, closing her eyes. "Emma?" he said. No answer. He couldn't believe it. She was asleep. Breathing softly and regularly, her small cold nose pressed into his collarbone. She was asleep, and he felt like his whole body was burning up. The shuddering waves of pleasure and desire that had rolled over him just from kissing her still stunned him. That had felt good. Almost euphorically good. And not just because of what had bloomed inside his own cells, his own skin. It had been Emma, the noises she'd made, the way she'd touched him. It wasn't the parabatai bond, but it was their bond. It was the pleasure he'd given her, mirrored back at him a thousandfold. It was everything he hadn't been able to feel since the spell. The Queen's voice came, unwanted, silvery as a bell and flawed with malice: You are in the cage, hoy. He shivered and drew Emma closer. <|title|>Chapter 19: The Jewelled Dead <|startofchapter|>Emma dreamed of fire and thunder, and was woken by the sound of splintering wood. At least, it sounded like the wood was splintering. When she sat up, groggy and confused, Julian's arm still around her waist, she realized it was someone knocking very, very hard at the bedroom door. Julian moved, groaning softly in his sleep; Emma extricated herself and padded over to throw the door open, expecting Cameron or Livvy. It was Diana. The sight of her acted like a shot of caffeine. She was all in black, from her black motorcycle boots to her leather pants and jacket. Her hair was secured in a tight, curly ponytail at the back of her head. She looked intimidating, but Emma didn't care much: She gave a little yelp and threw her arms around Diana, who made a loud noise of surprise. "Whoa there, stranger," she said. "What's going on?" "Sorry." Julian had appeared and gently peeled Emma away. "In our world, you're our tutor." "Oh, right. Your alternate dimension. Livvy told me about it when I got back from my pharmacy run." Diana raised her eyebrows. "Wild." "Do you not know us at all here?" Emma asked with some disappointment. "Not since you were little kids. I saw you in the Accords Hall during the Dark War, before they Portaled all the children away. You were good little fighters," she added. "Then I heard you got Endarkened. I didn't expect I'd see you again unless you were pointing the business end of a gun at me." "Well," Emma said. "Good surprise, huh?" Diana looked darkly amused. "Come on. You can tell me what I'm like in your world while I take you to the lobby." They threw on clothes--boots, long-sleeved shirts, bomber jackets. Emma wondered where the rebels got their supplies. Her black pants felt like they were made out of canvas or something else similarly thick and itchy. The boots were cool, though, and she had to admit she liked the way Julian wore his faded shirt and army pants. They clung to his lean, muscular body in a way that made her try not to think about the previous night. As they left the room, Julian tore a page from his sketchbook and tucked it into his jacket pocket. "For luck," he said. They joined Diana in the hallway, their boots clomping loudly on the polished wood. "In our world," Emma said, as they headed down a set of stairs, "you're dating a faerie." Diana frowned. "A faerie? Why would I be dating a traitor?" "Things are a little more complicated at home." "Things are pretty complicated here, kid," Diana said as they reached the ground floor. "Come on through." They passed under a brick archway and into a massive room full of furniture that looked as if it had been scrounged from different offices. There were modern steel-and-leather couches, and vintage patchwork and velvet ones. Armchairs made of cotton and chintz, some in good shape and some torn up; cheap chipboard tables on metal legs, laid end to end to create a sort of boardroom effect. There was a crowd in the room: Emma saw Livvy and Cameron, Bat and Maia, and a few familiar faces--Divya Joshi and Rayan Maduabuchi, one or two of the older Los Angeles Conclave members. They were all staring at the east wall of the room--ordinary brick and sandstone, it was currently burning with huge, fiery letters, reaching from one end of the wall to the other. SEEK CHURCH. "Do you understand it?" Diana said. "Nobody here does. Churches aren't doing well in this world. They're all deconsecrated and full of demons." "Everyone's so quiet," Emma said, whispering herself. "Are they--scared?" "Not really," said Diana. "I think it's just been so long since any of us have seen magic." Livvy pushed her way through the crowd toward them, leaving Cameron behind. "Is this from Tessa Gray?" she demanded, eyes wide, as she reached them. "Is this a response to that summons? Did it work?" "Yeah," Julian said. "I'm pretty sure that's exactly what this is. Tessa wants us to come to her." "Not too trusting," said Diana. "She must have some sense." "But the church part?" Livvy looked puzzled. "What church does she mean?" "She means a cat," said Julian. "And please don't say all the cats are dead," said Emma. "I'm not sure I can cope with feline death on a massive scale." "Cats actually do okay here," said Diana. "They're a little demony themselves." Livvy waved her hands. "Can we stick to specifics? What do you mean, a cat?" "An unusual cat," said Julian. "His name's Church. He belonged to Jem Carstairs once, and he used to live with us in the Institute after the Dark War." "We can't go to the Institute," said Emma. "It's full of evil Ashdowns." "Yeah, but Church was a wandering cat--you remember," Julian said. "He didn't really live in the Institute with us. He padded around on the beach and stopped by whenever he felt like it. And he led us where he wanted us to go. If we find Church--he could lead us to Tessa." "Tessa and Brother Zachariah did have a foul-tempered cat with them in New York, after the war," said Livvy. "I'll go with you to the beach," Diana said. "That means you have to cross the whole city in daylight," Livvy said. "I don't like it." "Would it be safer to go at night?" said Julian. "No, that's even worse," Livvy said. "Hey," said a soft voice. Emma turned to see a boy with wavy hair and light brown skin looking at them with a mixture of annoyance and--no, it was mostly just annoyance. "Raphael Santiago?" she said. She recognized him from the Dark War, from pictures in history books about its heroes. Emma had always thought that Raphael, who had made his famous sacrifice to save Magnus Bane's life, had an angelic face. The crown of curls, the cross scar at his throat, and the wide eyes in the child-round face were the same. She had not expected the sardonic expression overlaying ah that. "I know who you are," Emma said. He didn't look impressed. "I know who you are too. You're those Endarkened who always make a disgusting display of yourselves. I realize you are evil, but why can't you be more discreet?" "That's really not us," said Julian. "Those are different people." "So you say," said Raphael. "This is a stupid plan and you are all going to die. I see all the Angel's gifts are truly gone, leaving only the Nephilim gift of remarkable short-sightedness. Out of the demonic frying pan, right back into the demonic frying pan." "Are you saying we shouldn't answer Tessa's summons?" said Emma, who was starting to get annoyed. "Raphael's just in a bad mood," said Livvy. She ruffled Raphael's curly hair. "Aren't you in a bad mood?" she cooed. Raphael glared daggers at her. Livvy smiled. "I didn't say you should or shouldn't do anything," Raphael snapped. "Go ahead and look for Tessa. But you might want my help. You're a lot more likely to make it across the city if you have transportation. But my help's not for free." "Annoyingly, everything he says is true," Livvy admitted. "Okay," said Julian. "What do you want, vampire?" "Information," said Raphael. "In your world, is my city still standing? New York." Julian nodded. "Am I alive?" Raphael said. "No," said Emma. There didn't seem to be any point in beating around the bush. Raphael paused only for a moment. "Then who is the leader of the New York vampire clan there?" said Raphael. "Lily Chen," Emma said. Raphael smiled, surprising her. It was a real smile, with real fondness in it. Emma felt herself soften. "In our world, you're a hero. You sacrificed your life so Magnus could live," she said. Raphael looked horrified. "Tell me you're not talking about Magnus Bane. Tell me you're talking about a much cooler Magnus. I would never do that. If I did do that, I would never want anybody to talk about it. I cannot believe Magnus would shame me by talking about that." Julian's mouth twitched at the corner. "He named his child for you. Rafael Santiago Lightwood-Bane." "That is revolting. So everybody knows? I am so embarrassed," said Raphael. He looked at Diana. "Under a tarp in the garage are several of my motorcycles. Take two of them. Do not crash them or I will be very angry." "Noted," said Diana. "We'll have them back by nightfall." "Shouldn't you be asleep, Raphael?" said Emma, suddenly struck. "You're a vampire. It's daytime." Raphael smiled coldly. "Oh, little Shadowhunter," he said. "Wait until you see the sun." They found the motorcycles in the garage, as Raphael had said they would, and Divya opened the metal door so they could wheel the cycles onto the street. She closed it up quickly after them, and to the sound of the clanging and whirring of gears, Julian looked up and saw the sky. His first thought was that he should step in front of Emma, protect her somehow from the ruins of the sun. His second was a fragmented memory of a piece of poetry his uncle had taught him. Mom came and went--and came, and brought no day. The sun was a red-black cinder, glowing dully against a bank of streaky clouds. It cast an ugly light--a reddish-brown light, as if they were seeing the world through blood-tinted water. The air was thick and carried the taste of dirt and copper on it. They were on what Julian guessed was West Broadway, the street much less crowded than it had been the night before. The occasional shadow slunk in and out of the gaps between buildings, and the convenience store offering blood milk shakes was, surprisingly, open. Something was sitting behind the counter, reading an old magazine, but it wasn't shaped like a human being. Trash blew up and down the mostly empty street, carried on the heated wind. This kind of weather came sometimes in Los Angeles, when the wind blew from the desert. Los Angelenos called them "devil winds" or "murder winds." Maybe they came all the time in Thule. "You ready?" said Diana, throwing one leg over her cycle and gesturing to the second one. Julian had never ridden a motorcycle. He was willing to have a whack at it, but Emma had already climbed on. She zipped up the leather jacket she'd taken from the wardrobe and crooked a finger at Julian. "Mark showed me how to ride one of these," she said. "Remember?" Julian remembered. He remembered how jealous of Mark he'd been too-- Mark, who could flirt with Emma casually. Who could kiss her, embrace her, while Julian had to treat her like a bomb that would explode if he touched her. If they touched each other. But not here, he reminded himself. This might be hell, but they weren't parabatai here. He settled himself on the cycle behind Emma and slipped his arms around her waist. She had a Glock thrust through her belt, just like he did. She reached down to brush her fingers across his clasped hands where they rested above her belt. He ducked his head and kissed the back of her neck. She shivered. "Enough, you guys," Diana said. "Let's go." She took off and Emma started up their own cycle, pulling in the clutch while holding down the start button. The engine revved with a loud noise and they were hurtling after Diana down the deserted street. Diana gunned her cycle toward a hill; Emma crouched down low, and Julian did the same. "Hold on," Emma shouted into the wind, and their cycle lifted off the ground, angling into the air. The ground fell away below them, and they were soaring, Diana beside them. Julian couldn't help thinking of the Wild Hunt, of flying through the air above a sleeping England, riding a path of wind and stars. But this was different. From above, they could see the utter destruction of the city clearly. The sky was filled with wheeling dark figures--other airborne motorcycles, and demons abroad at daylight, protected by the dim sun and the thick cover of clouds. Fires burned at intervals, smoke swirling up from the Miracle Mile. The streets around Beverly Hills had been dammed up and flooded, forming a sort of moat around Bel Air, and as they soared over it, Julian gazed down into the churning water. A massive sea monster, hideous and humped, was pulling its way along the moat by its tentacles. It threw back its head and howled, and Julian glimpsed a black, yawning mouth, studded with teeth like a great white shark's. They soared over Wilshire, which had become a boulevard of horrors. Julian glimpsed a human musician dangling from puppet strings made of his own nerves and blood vessels, being forced to play a mandolin even as he screamed in agony. A demon lounged at a covered table where xylophones of human ribs were for sale, another--a massive one-eyed serpent--coiled around a "lemonade" stand where vampires stepped up for a wedge of lemon and a bite of a screaming, terrified human. Julian closed his eyes. When he opened them again, they were flying north over the highway by the sea. At least here it was mostly deserted, though they could see down into the ruins of the once-wealthy houses that had lined the shores of Malibu. They were overgrown now, their swimming pools empty or full of black water. Even the ocean looked different. In the dim daylight the water was black and churning, without fish or seaweed to be seen. He felt Emma tense. Her words were torn away by the wind, but he caught enough of them to understand. "Julian--the Institute." He glanced to the east. There it was, their Institute, glass and stone and steel, rising from the scrub grass of the Santa Monica Mountains. His heart lurched with yearning. It seemed so familiar, even under the red-orange hell glow of the dying sun. But no--two flags flew from the Institute's roof. One showed the star-in- circle symbol of Sebastian, and the other the family crest of the Ashdowns: an ash tree surrounded by leaves. He was glad when Emma swung the cycle around and the Institute was no longer in view. Diana was ahead of them, her cycle descending toward the beach. She landed with a few puffs of sand and turned to watch as Emma and Julian lurched down after her with considerable less grace. They hit the sand with enough force to snap Julian's teeth sharply together. "Ouch," he said. Emma swung around, her cheeks pink, her hair windblown. "You think you could do better?" "No," he said, and kissed her cheek. Her face turned a darker pink, and Diana made an exasperated noise. "You two are almost as bad as the Endarkened versions of yourselves. Now, come on--we have to hide these cycles." As Julian rolled their cycle under a rock overhang, he realized he didn't mind Diana's teasing at all. He hadn't minded Cameron's teasing about the bed, either. It was all a reminder that here, he and Emma had a completely normal relationship--nothing secret, nothing forbidden. Nothing dangerous. It was perhaps the only thing in Thule that ruas ordinary, but in this world without angels, it felt like a blessing. "Well, here we are," Diana said, once the cycles were hidden. "Looking for a cat on a beach." "Church usually comes to us," said Julian, glancing around. "It looks-- almost ordinary here." "I wouldn't go in the water," said Diana darkly. "But yeah, Sebastian seems to like the beach. Mostly he leaves it alone and uses it for ceremonies and executions." Emma began to make cooing, clicking kitty-come-here noises. "Don't blame me if you summon a cat demon," said Diana. She stretched, the joints in her wrists popping audibly. "A week to get back from Mexico City, and now this, two days after I get home," she said, half to herself. "I really thought I might get a chance to rest. Silly me." Emma whirled around. "Mexico City?" she demanded. "Did you--do you know if Cristina Mendoza Rosales is all right?" "Cristina Rosales? The Rose of Mexico?" Diana said, looking surprised. "Because of her, Mexico City is one of the few Shadowhunter strongholds left. I mean, there's no angelic magic, but they patrol, they keep the demons down. The Rosales family are a resistance legend." "I knew it," Emma said. She wiped hastily at her damp face. "I knew it." "Are there other pockets? Places people are resisting?" Julian said. "Livvy's doing what she can here," said Diana somewhat pointedly. "There'd be a lot more dead if not for her. We hear things about Jerusalem-- Singapore--Sri Lanka. Oh, and Bangkok, which doesn't surprise me. I know that city pretty well since I transitioned there." Emma looked puzzled. "What do you mean, transitioned?" "I'm transgender," Diana said, puzzled. "You must know that if you knew me in your world." "Right," Julian said hastily. "We just didn't know about the Bangkok thing." Diana looked even more puzzled. "But when I--" She broke off. "Is that what I think it is?" She pointed. Sitting on top of a nearby boulder was a cat. Not just any cat --an angry-looking blue Persian cat with an aggressively fluffed-out tail. "Church!" Emma scooped him up in her arms, and Church did what he usually did. He went limp. "Is that cat dead?" Diana demanded. "No, he isn't," Emma cooed, and kissed his furry face. Church went limper. "He just hates affection." Diana shook her head. She seemed completely unaffected by having told them something that in their world was a secret she had guarded. Guilt and annoyance with himself were rising inside Julian; he tried to shove them down. Now wasn't the time, nor would it be right to burden this Diana with his feelings. "I wuvyou," Emma said to Church. "I wuvyou very much." Church wiggled out of her grasp and meowed. He padded toward Julian, meowed again, and then turned to frisk away along the beach. "He wants us to follow him," Julian said, clomping after Church. His enormous boots were a pain when it came to walking on sand. He heard Diana mutter something about how if she'd wanted to run around after deranged animals, she would have volunteered for the zoo patrol, but she headed after them anyway. They trailed Church along the inner bluffs until they reached a path that led to a hole in the cliff face. Julian knew it well. When you grew up on the beach, you explored every rock, arch, cove, and cave. This one led to an impressive but empty cave, if he recalled correctly. He and Emma had once dragged a table in there and held meetings before they'd gotten bored with having a secret society with only two people in it. Church scrambled up to the entrance of the cave and meowed loudly. There was a grinding sound like stone moving aside, and a figure stepped out of the shadows. It was a man with dark hair, in long parchment robes. His cheeks were scarred, his eyes dark, full of wisdom and sorrow. "Jem!" Emma screamed, and began to run up the path, her face shining with eagerness. Jem held up his hand. His palms were scarred with runes, and Julian ached to see them--runes, in this runeless place. Insight. Quietude. Courage. And then Jem began to change. Diana swore and yanked a pistol from her belt as a ripple went over Jem's features and the parchment robes slid to the ground. His hair lightened and tumbled, long and waving, to the middle of his back; his eyes turned gray and long-lashed, his figure curved and feminine inside a plain gray dress. Diana cocked the pistol. "Who are you?" Emma had stopped in the middle of the path. She blinked back tears and said, "This is her. The Last Warlock. This is Tessa Gray." Tessa had set the inside of the cave up as cozily as possible. There was a small fireplace, whose smoke went up a flue built into the rocks. The stone floor was brushed clean and dotted with carpets; there was a small sleeping annex and multiple chairs covered in cushions and soft pillows. There was even a little kitchen with a small range, a refrigerator humming along without being plugged into anything, and a wooden table already set with teacups and a loaf of warm sweet bread. Realizing she hadn't had breakfast, Emma wondered if it would be a faux pas to leap on the bread and devour it. Probably. "Sit down and eat," Tessa said, as if reading her mind. As they settled around the table, Church climbed into Emma's lap, rolled onto his back, and promptly fell asleep with his feet in the air. Diana tore off a hunk of the bread and stuffed it in her mouth. She closed her eyes in bliss. "Oh. My. God." Emma decided that was her cue. For the next minute, she shut out the world around her and entered a blissful carb coma. The last time she'd eaten real food was in that clearing with Julian, and this was warm and home- cooked and felt like the taste of hope. When she opened her eyes, she realized Julian hadn't even taken a bite yet. He was looking at Tessa--that Julian look that seemed completely innocent but actually meant he was taking someone's measure, assessing their weaknesses, and deciding if he trusted them. It was pretty hot, actually. Emma sucked a piece of sugar off her thumb and tried not to smile to herself. "You must be wondering who we are," he said as Tessa poured their tea. "No." Tessa set the teapot down and took a seat, wrapping a shawl around her shoulders. "I know who you are. You are Emma Carstairs and Julian Blackthorn, but not the ones from this world." "You already know that?" said Diana in surprise. "I see as a warlock sees," said Tessa. "I know they do not belong here." She indicated Julian and Emma. "And I have seen, a little, into other worlds--into their world in particular. It is closer to this one than we might like to think." "What do you mean?" Julian said. "They seem pretty different to me." "There are stress points in history," said Tessa. "Places where a great deal of chance is at play. Battles, peace treaties, marriages. That sort of thing. That's where timelines are likely to split. Our two timelines split at the Battle of the Burren. In your world, the demon Lilith was too weak to render Sebastian Morgenstern much help. In Thule, another demon gave aid and strength to Lilith. She was able to kill Clary Fairchild, and that's where our timelines split--only seven years ago." "So this is what our world would be like without Clary," said Emma, remembering all the times she'd heard people--mostly men--say that Clary wasn't a hero, that she hadn't done much that deserved to be praised, that she was selfish, even worthless, just a girl who'd been in the right places at the right times. "Yes," said Tessa. "Interesting, isn't it? I gather that in your world, Jace Herondale is a hero. Here he is a monster second only to Sebastian." "Doesn't he even care that Sebastian let Lilith kill Clary?" demanded Emma. "Even when Jace was in thrall to Sebastian in our world, he loved Clary." "Sebastian claims the death of Clary was not what he wanted," said Tessa. "He says he murdered Lilith as revenge for her taking of Clary's life." "Not sure anyone believes that but Jace," said Diana. "He's the only one who has to," said Tessa. She ran her finger around the rim of her teacup. "I must apologize for testing you," she said abruptly. "I appeared as Jem when you arrived because I knew that the real Emma Carstairs would be delighted to see him, while anyone aligned with Sebastian would be horrified at the sight of a Silent Brother." "Jem . . .?" Emma whispered. She knew what Livvy had said, that all the Brothers were gone, but still she had hoped. Tessa didn't look up. "He died in the attempt to seal the Silent City. It was successful, but he gave his life to hold off Sebastian's Endarkened as the Brothers made their last stand to protect the Mortal Instruments." "I'm sorry," Julian said. Emma remembered Tessa and Jem in her own world, eyes only for each other. Tessa cleared her throat. "Sebastian already has possession of the Mortal Mirror--Lake Lyn. It is surrounded by demons, ten thousand strong. None can go anywhere near it." "Why is he guarding the lake so fiercely?" said Emma. "If no one can get to any of the Mortal Instruments--" "As the warlocks were sickening, we found that the water of Lake Lyn could neutralize the blight that was eating through our world. We raced there to collect the water. But by the time we arrived at the lake, Sebastian had surrounded it with countless demons." Emma and Julian exchanged a look. "With the blight gone, would the warlocks have been cured?" "We believe so," said Tessa. "We had a small amount of the water and used it to cure the blight around the Spiral Labyrinth. We even gave it to some warlocks, mixed with ordinary water, and they began to improve. But it simply wasn't enough. The warlocks began to sicken and turn again. We could not save them." Emma's heart thumped. If the water of Lake Lyn had neutralized some of the blight here in Thule--if it had helped the warlocks, even as this world was turning to demonic poison all around them--surely the water of their own Lake Lyn, in their own world, might be a cure? They needed to get home more desperately than ever. But first-- "We need your help," Emma said. "That's why we called on you." "I guessed that." Tessa rested her chin in her hand. She looked young, no more than twenty, though Emma knew she was over a hundred. "Is it that you want to get back to your world?" "It's not just that," Julian said. "We need to get into the Silent City. We have to get to the Mortal Cup and the Mortal Sword before Sebastian does." "And then what?" Tessa said. "And then we destroy them so Sebastian can't use them," said Emma. Tessa raised her eyebrows. "Destroy the Mortal Instruments? They're very nearly indestructible." Emma thought of the Mortal Sword shattering under Cortana's blade. "If you open up a Portal back to our world, we can take them through with us. Sebastian will never be able to find them." "If it was that simple," Tessa said sharply, "I would have already opened a Portal, leaped through it, and taken the Cup and Sword with me. To open a Portal between worlds--that is complex, powerful magic, far beyond most warlocks. I can see into your world, but I cannot reach it." "But you can get into the Silent City, right?" said Emma. "I believe so, though I have not tried," said Tessa. "I thought the Sword and the Cup were safe there. The Silent Brothers died to protect the Instruments and to remove them would have left them vulnerable to Sebastian. Yet now he is close to breaking the seal on the doors." She frowned. "If you can truly bring the Instruments back to your world then they would be safer there. But without the knowledge that a Portal can be opened, there is another way to end the threat." "What do you mean?" said Julian. "There's nothing we could do with the Sword or Cup here, besides demonic magic." "People used to say that the Mortal Sword could kill Sebastian," said Diana, her gaze sharp. "But that's not true, is it? I was at the last battle of Idris. I saw Isabelle Lightwood take up the Mortal Sword and deal Sebastian an incredible blow. He wasn't even nicked. He struck her down instead." "Aue atque vale, Isabelle Lightwood." Tessa closed her eyes. "You have to understand. By then the invulnerability granted to Sebastian by Lilith had grown so strong no warrior of this earth could slay him. But there is something most do not know. Even Sebastian does not know it." She opened her eyes. "He is tied to Thule, and Thule to him. A warrior of this world cannot slay him with the Sword. But the Silent Brothers knew that did not hold true for a warrior who was not of Thule. They locked the Sword away, hoping for a day when a warrior would arrive from Heaven and end Sebastian's reign." For a long moment, she gazed intently at Emma and Julian. "We're not from Heaven," Emma said. "Despite what some bad pickup lines I've heard over the years might have you believe." "Seems like Heaven compared to here," said Diana. "We can't wait forever to be rescued by angels," Tessa said. "This is a gift, you being here." "Let's be clear." Julian took a bite of bread. His face was expressionless but Emma could read his eyes, knew the gears were whirling in his brain. "You're asking us to kill Sebastian." "I have to ask," Tessa said. "I have to make Jem's sacrifice mean something." "In our world," Julian said, "the bond between Jace and Sebastian meant that killing Jace would destroy Sebastian, and the other way around as well. If we--" Tessa shook her head. "There was a point at which that was true here, when Sebastian believed it protected him from the Clave. There is no Clave now, nor does that aspect of their bond remain." "I get it," said Emma. "But with how far gone this world is--would just killing Sebastian make that much of a difference?" Tessa leaned back in her chair. "In your world, what happened when Sebastian died?" "It was the end of the Endarkened," Emma said, though she had a feeling Tessa already knew that. "That would give us a fighting chance," Tessa said. "Sebastian can't do everything himself. He leaves most of the dirty work to the Endarkened and the Forsworn." She glanced at Diana. "I know you agree." "Maybe," Diana said. "But going after Sebastian seems like a suicide mission." "I wouldn't ask if there were any other choices," Tessa said quietly. She turned to Emma and Julian. "As you've requested, I will break the seal and open the Silent City for you. And I will do whatever I can to get you home. All I ask is that if you get a chance, an opening--you lull Sebastian." Emma looked across the table at Julian. In his clear blue-green eyes she could see both his desire to agree to what Tessa was asking and his fear that it would put her, Emma, in danger. "I know Thule isn't your world, but it's only a breath away," Tessa said. "If I could save the Jem who lives in your world, I would. And now you have a chance to save your sister here." In Tessa's voice, Emma heard that she understood that the Livvy in their world was dead. "She is safe in the Bradbury, but for how long? How safe are any of us? Any safety is temporary as long as Sebastian lives." Ignoring Church's indignant meow, Emma reached across the table and put her hand over Julian's. Don't fear for me, parabatai, she thought. This is a chance for both of us. For you to save Livvy as you could not in our world, and for me to avenge my parents, as I could not either. "We'll do it," she said, and Julian's eyes blazed like tinder set alight. "Of course we will. Just tell us what we have to do." As they climbed onto the cycles, Diana warned them they'd be driving back on surface streets, not flying--the closer it got to nightfall, she said, the more full the skies were of demons. Even the vampires stayed out of the air after dark. Emma was surprised to discover Diana had woken them up later in the day than she'd thought. The nuances of morning light, afternoon light, and evening light were lost here: There was only the dying sun and the blood moon. As their motorcycles raced along the Pacific Coast Highway, the moon rose sluggishly, barely illuminating the road ahead. Instead of sparkling on top of the waves, the moonlight turned the water an even more poisonous color--no longer Blackthorn blue-green, but ashy black. Emma was glad for the warmth of Julian's arms around her as they turned off the highway and onto Wilshire. To be this close to all that was ruined was painful. She knew these streets. She had been to this supermarket to pick up cereal for Tavvy: It was a ruin of smashed wood and broken beams now, where a few unsworn humans huddled around watch fires, their faces haggard with desperation and hunger. And there had been a candy store on this corner, where now a demon proprietor stood watch over rows of glass tanks in which drowned bodies floated. Every once in a while he would plunge a ladle into one of the tanks, pour some of the viscous water into a bowl, and sell it to a demonic passerby. How long could Thule go on like this? Emma wondered as they rolled along the Miracle Mile. The tall office buildings here stood empty, their windows shattered. The streets were deserted. Humans were being hunted to extinction, and just like Raphael, she doubted Sebastian had another world full of fresh blood and meat up his sleeve. What happened when they were all gone? Did the demons turn on the Endarkened? On the vampires? Would they move on to another world, leaving Sebastian to rule over emptiness? "Slow down," Julian said in her ear, and she realized that while she'd been musing, they'd reached a crowded and well-lit section of street. "Checkpoint." She swore silently and pulled in behind Diana. The area was buzzing-- Endarkened wandered up and down the street, and the bars and restaurants here were basically intact, some of them lit up blue and green and acid yellow. Emma could even hear atonal, wailing music. There were black-and-white barriers up in front of them, blocking the road. A two-legged lizard demon with a circle of black spider's eyes ringing its scaled head loped out of a small booth and over to Diana. "I'm not letting some demon lick me," muttered Emma. "It's not happening." "I'm pretty sure it was just licking Cameron to make sure his tattoo was real." "Sure," said Emma. "That's its story." Diana turned around on her bike and gave them a tight, artificial grin. Emma's heart started to beat faster. She didn't like the look of that smile. The lizard demon loped toward them. It was massive, at least nine feet tall and half again as wide. It seemed to be wearing a police uniform, though Emma had no idea where it had gotten one that would fit. "The boss has been looking for you all day," it slurred. Emma guessed its mouth wasn't really shaped for human speech. "Where you been?" "The boss?" Emma echoed. Fortunately, the lizard was too stupid to be suspicious. "The Fallen Star," it slurred. "Sebastian Morgenstern. He wants to talk to you both." <|title|>Chapter 20: The Hours Are Breathing <|startofchapter|>Sebastian wants to talk to us? Emma thought with horror, and then, with a duller pang of realization: It thinks we're the Endarkened versions of ourselves. Well, that explained Diana's expression. Julian's fingers gripped Emma's arm tightly. He slid casually off the cycle. "Okay," he said. "Where's the boss at?" The lizard demon drew a paper bag out of its breast pocket. The bag seemed to be full of wriggling spiders. It popped one into its mouth and chewed while Emma's stomach lurched. "In the old nightclub," it said around a crunchy mouthful of spider, and pointed toward a black glass-and-steel low-slung building. A dull red carpet was spread out on the pavement in front of the entrance. "Go. I watch your motorcycle." Emma slid off the cycle, feeling as if ice had invaded her veins. Neither she nor Julian looked at each other; somehow both of them were crossing the street, striding along next to each other as if nothing unusual were happening. Sebastian knows who we really are, Emma thought. He knows, and he's going to kill us. She kept walking. They reached the pavement, and she heard the roar of a motorcycle starting up; she turned to see Diana speeding away from the checkpoint. She knew why Diana had needed to go, and didn't blame her, but the sight still sent a cold stab through her chest: They were alone. The nightclub was guarded by Iblis demons, who gave them a casual once- over and let them pass through the doors into a narrow corridor lined with mirrors. Emma could see her own reflection: She looked starkly pale, her mouth a tight line. That was bad. She had to relax. Julian, beside her, looked calm and collected, his hair ruffled from the motorcycle but otherwise nothing out of place. He took her hand as the corridor opened up into a massive room. Warmth seemed to flow from him, through Emma's hand, into her veins; she took a deep, harsh breath as a wave of cold air smacked into them. The nightclub was silvery-white and black, a dark fairyland of ice. A long bar carved from a block of ice ran along one wall. Cascades of frozen water, polar blue and arctic green, spilled from the ceiling, turning the dance floor into a labyrinth of glimmering sheets. Julian's hand tightened on Emma's. She glanced down; the floor underneath them was solid ice, and beneath the ice she could see the shadows of trapped bodies--here the shape of a hand, there a screaming, frozen face. Her chest tightened. We are walking on the bodies of the dead, she thought. Julian glanced sideways at her, shook his head slightly as if to say, We can't think about that right now. Compartmentalizing, she thought as they headed toward a roped-off area at the back of the club. That was how Julian got through things. Pushing down thoughts, walling them off, living in the moment of the act that had become his reality. She did her best to shove the thoughts of the dead away as they ducked under the ropes and found themselves in an area full of couches and chairs upholstered in ice-blue velvet. Sprawled in the largest armchair was Sebastian. Up close, he was clearly older than the boy Emma remembered from her world. He was broader, his jaw more square, his eyes tar black. He wore a crisp black designer suit with a pattern of roses on the lapels, a thick fur coat draped over it. His ice-white hair mixed with the pale gold fur; if Emma hadn't known who he was and hated him, she would have thought he was beautiful, a wintry prince. Standing beside him, his fingers resting lightly on the back of Sebastian's chair, was Jace. He too wore a black suit, and when he turned slightly, Emma saw the strap of a holster beneath it. There were leather gauntlets on his wrists, under the sharp cuffs of his jacket. She would have bet he was carrying several knives. Is he Sebastian's bodyguard? she wondered. Does it amuse Sebastian to keep one of the Clave's heroes as a sort of pet, bound to his side? And then there was Ash. Wearing jeans and a T-shirt, sprawled in a chair some distance away with an electronic device in his hands, he seemed to be playing a video game. The light from the game came and went, illuminating his sharp-featured face, the points of his ears. Sebastian's cold gaze swept over Emma and Julian. Emma felt her whole body tense. She knew their runes were covered by fabric and concealer, but she still felt as if Sebastian could see right through her. As if he'd know immediately they weren't Endarkened. "If it isn't the two lovebirds," he drawled. He glanced at Emma. "I haven't really seen your face before. Your friend here's been too busy sucking it." Julian replied in a flat monotone. "Sorry to have annoyed you, sir." "It doesn't annoy me," Sebastian said. "Just an observation." He settled back in his chair. "I prefer redheads myself." A flicker of something went over Jace's face. It was gone too quickly for Emma to guess at its meaning. Ash looked up, though, and Emma tensed. If Ash recognized them... He glanced back down at his game, his expression evincing no interest. Emma was finding it hard not to shiver. The cold was intense, and Sebastian's gaze colder still. He templed his fingers under his chin. "Rumors have been swirling," he said, "that a certain Livia Blackthorn is raising a pathetic little rebellion downtown." Emma's stomach lurched. "She's nothing to us," Julian said quickly. He sounded like he meant it too. "Of course not," said Sebastian. "But you were once her brother and her friend. Humans are regrettably sentimental. She might be tricked into trusting you." "Livvy would never trust a pair of Endarkened," Emma said, and froze. It was the wrong thing to say. Jace's golden eyes narrowed with suspicion. He began to speak, but Sebastian cut him off with a dismissive wave. "Not now, Jace." Jace's expression went blank. He turned away from Sebastian and went to Ash, leaning over the back of his chair to point out something on his game screen. Ash nodded. It would almost have looked like a sweet brotherly moment if it hadn't been so screwed up and awful. If the chandelier overhead hadn't been made of frozen human arms, each one gripping a torch that spat demonic light. If Emma could forget the faces beneath the floor. "What Emma means is that Livvy's always been cunning," said Julian. "In a low sort of way." "Interesting," said Sebastian. "I tend to approve of low cunning, though not when directed at me, of course." "We know her very well," said Julian. "I'm sure we can suss out her little rebellion's location without much trouble." Sebastian smirked. "I like your confidence," he said. "You wouldn't believe what I--" He broke off with a frown. "Is that damn dog barking again?" It ruas a dog barking. A few seconds later, a black-and-white terrier bounded into the room on the end of a long leash. At the other end of the leash was a woman with long dark hair. It was Annabel Blackthorn. She wore a red dress without sleeves, though she must have been freezing in the cold air. Her skin was dead white. Seeing Emma and Julian, she went even whiter. Her grip tightened on the dog's leash. Adrenaline spihed through Emma's veins. Annabel was going to spih, she was going to turn them in. She had no reason not to. And then Sebastian would kill them. I swear, Emma thought, I will find a way to make him bleed before I die. I will find a way to make them both bleed. "I'm sorry," Annabel said petulantly. "He wanted to see Ash. Didn't you, Malcolm?" Even Julian's expression flickered at that. Emma watched in horror as Annabel bent down to rub the dog's ears. It looked up at her with wide lavender eyes and barked again. Malcolm Fade, High Warlock of Los Angeles, was now a demon terrier. "Get your nasty familiar out of here," Sebastian snapped. "I'm doing business. If Ash needs something, he'll call on you, Annabel. He's practically a grown man. He no longer requires a nursemaid." "Everyone needs a mother," Annabel said. "Don't you, Ash?" Ash said nothing. He was immersed in his game. With an irritated sigh, Annabel stalked out of the room, Malcolm trotting behind her. "As I was saying." Sebastian's face was tight with annoyance. "Annabel is one of my best torturers--you wouldn't believe the creative skill she can display with a single knife and a Shadowhunter--but like the rest of those around me, she is too vulnerable to her emotions. I don't know why people don't just understand what's best for them." "If they did, they wouldn't need leaders," said Julian. "Like you." Sebastian gave him a considering look. "I suppose that's true. But it is like a weight of responsibility. Crushing me. You understand." "Let us seek out Livia for you," Julian said. "We'll go take care of the threat and bring you back her head." Sebastian looked pleased. He glanced at Emma. "You don't talk much, do you?" I can't, Emma thought. I can't stand here and lie and pretend like Julian. I can't. But the warmth of Julian's hand was still in hers, the strength of their bond --even when it was no longer magical--lifting her chin, setting her jaw hard. She took her hand out of Julian's and slowly, deliberately, cracked her knuckles. "I prefer killing," she said. "'Say it with bullets,' that's my motto." Sebastian actually laughed, and for a moment Emma remembered Clary on the roof of the Institute, talking about a green-eyed brother who had never existed, but could have. Maybe in some other world, a better one than Thule. "Very well," Sebastian said. "You will be well rewarded if you succeed in this. There might even be a Bel Air house in it for you. Especially if you find any pretty redheads among the rebels and bring them back for Jace and me to play with." He grinned. "Run along now, before you freeze to death." He flicked a dismissive gesture at them. There was a force behind it-- Emma felt herself spun around as if by a hand on her shoulder. She nearly staggered, regained her footing, and found they were almost at the doors of the club. She didn't even remember passing the mirrors. Then they were out on the street, and she was gasping in lungfuls of the hot, dirty air, the warmth of the humid night suddenly welcome. They reclaimed their motorcycle from the lizard guard and rode several blocks without speaking a word until Julian leaned forward and said, through gritted teeth, "Pull over." The block they were on was nearly deserted, the streetlights smashed and the pavement dark. As soon as Emma pulled to a stop, Julian swung himself off the cycle and staggered over to the storefront of a destroyed Starbucks. Emma could hear him throwing up in the shadows. Her stomach tightened in sympathy. She wanted to go to him but was afraid to leave the cycle. It was their only way back to the Bradbury. Without it they were dead. When Julian returned, his face smudged with shadow and bruises, Emma handed him a bottle of water. "You were amazing in the nightclub," she said. He took a swig from the bottle. "I felt like I was being torn apart inside," he said matter-of-factly. "To stand there and say those things about Livvy--to call that bastard monster 'sir'--to keep from ripping Annabel limb from limb 55 "Do it now, then," said a voice from the shadows. "Rip me apart, if you can." Emma's Glock was already out as she turned, lowering it to point directly at the pale woman in the shadows. Her red dress was a smear of blood against the night. Annabel's colorless lips curled into a smile. "That gun won't hurt me," she said. "And the shot, the screams, will bring the Endarkened running. Chance it if you wish. I wouldn't." Julian dropped the bottle. Water splashed over his boots. Emma prayed he wouldn't launch himself at Annabel; his hands were shaking. "We can hurt you," he said. "We can make you bleed." It was so close to what Emma herself had thought inside the nightclub that she was taken aback for a moment. "The Endarkened will come," Annabel said. "All I have to do is scream." Her Marks had faded, just like all the other Shadowhunters'; her skin was pale as milk, without a single design. Emma was startled by how calm she seemed. How sane. But then, several years had passed here, for her. "I knew who you were the moment I saw you. You look just as you did in the Unseelie Court. The marks of the battle on your faces haven't even healed." "Then why didn't you tell Sebastian?" Emma spat. "If you wanted to get rid of us--" "I don't want to get rid of you. I want to make a deal with you." Julian yanked up his right sleeve with enough force to tear the fabric. There on his wrist was the rag he had worn all through Faerie, still crusted with dried blood. "This is my sister's blood," he ground out. "Blood you spilled. Why would I ever want to make a deal with you?" Annabel looked unmoved at the sight of Livvy's blood. "Because you want to get home," she said. "Because you can't stop thinking of what could be happening to the rest of your family. I am still possessed of powerful dark magics, you know. The Black Volume works even better here. I can open a Portal to take you home. I'm the only one in this world who can." "Why would you do that for us?" said Emma. Annabel gave an odd little smile. In her red dress, she seemed to float suspended like a drop of blood in water. "The Inquisitor sent you into Faerie to die," she said. "The Clave despises you and wants you dead. All because you wanted to protect what you loved. How would I not understand what that's like?" This, Emma felt, was pretty twisted logic. Julian, though, was staring at Annabel as if she were a nightmare he could not look away from. "You enspelled yourself," Annabel went on, her gaze fixed on Julian. "To feel nothing. I sensed the spell when I saw you in Faerie. I saw it, and I felt joy." She twirled, her red skirt spinning out around her. "You made yourself like Malcolm. He cut himself away from emotions to get me back." "No," Emma said, unable to bear the look on Julian's face. "He tried to get you back because he loved you. Because he felt emotions." "Maybe at first." Annabel stopped twirling. "But it was no longer the case by the time he raised me, was it? He had kept me trapped and tortured all those years, so he could bring me back for him, not for me. That is not love, to sacrifice your beloved's happiness for your own needs. By the time he was able to get me back, he was so divorced from the world that he cared about his goal more than he cared about the kinds of love that matter. A thing that was true and pure and beautiful became corrupt and evil." She smiled, and her teeth shone like underwater pearls. "Once you no longer feel empathy, you become a monster. You may not be under the spell here, Julian Blackthorn, but what about when you return? What will you do then, when you cannot bear to feel what you feel?" "Shut up," Emma said through her teeth. "You don't understand anything." She turned to Julian. "Let's get away from here." But Julian was still staring at Annabel. "You want something," he said in a deadly flat voice. "What?" "Ah." Annabel was still smiling. "When I open the Portal, take Ash with you. He is in danger." "Ash?" Julian repeated, incredulous. "Ash seems to be doing fine here," said Emma, lowering her Glock. "I mean, maybe he's getting bored with his video game selection since, you know, Sebastian killed all the people who make video games. Or he could be running out of batteries. But I'm not sure that qualifies as danger." Annabel's face darkened. "He is too good for this place," she said. "And more than that--when we first found ourselves here, I brought him to Sebastian. I believed Sebastian would take care of Ash because he is his father. And for a time, he did. But rumors are circulating that the energy drain of maintaining so many Endarkened is slowly tearing Sebastian apart. The life forces of the Endarkened are poisoned. Useless. But Ash's is not. I believe eventually he will kill Ash and use his considerable life force to rejuvenate himself." "No one's safe, huh?" said Julian. He sounded distinctly unimpressed. "This is a good world for me," said Annabel. "I hate the Nephilim, and I am powerful enough to be safe from demons." "And Sebastian lets you torture Nephilim," Emma said. "Indeed. I visit upon them the wounds that were once visited upon me by the Council." There was no emotion in her voice, not even a faint hint of gloating, only a deadly dullness that was even worse. "But it is not a good place for Ash. We cannot hide--Sebastian would hunt him down anywhere. He will be better off in your world." "Then why don't you take him there yourself?" said Emma. "I would if I could. It sickens me to be parted from him," Annabel said. "I have given all my life these years to his care." Perfect loyalty, Emma thought. Was it that loyalty that had made Annabel so haggard, so sick-looking? Always putting Ash before herself, following him from place to place, ready to die for him at any moment, and never really knowing why? "But in your world," Annabel went on, "I would be hunted, and torn from Ash. He would have no one to protect him. This way, he will have you." "You seem to have a lot of trust in us," said Julian, "given that you know we hate you." "But you don't hate Ash," Annabel said. "He is innocent, and you have always protected the innocent. It is what you do." She smiled, a knowing smile, as if she felt in her heart that she had caught them in a net. "Besides. You are desperate to get home, and desperation always has a price. So how about it, Nephilim? Do we have a deal?" Ash scooped the piece of paper that had fallen from Julian Blackthorn's jacket off the floor of the nightclub. He was careful not to let Sebastian see him do it. He'd been in Thule long enough to know that it was never a good idea to catch Sebastian's attention unawares. Not that Sebastian was always cruel. He was generous in fits and starts, when he remembered Ash existed. He'd hand him weapons or games he found in raids on rebel homes. He ensured that Ash dressed nicely, since he considered Ash a reflection of himself. Jace was the only one who was ever actually kind, though, seeming to find in Ash somewhere to put the frustrated, bottled-up feelings he still carried for Clary Fairchild and Alexander and Isabelle Lightwood. And then there was Annabel. But Ash didn't want to think about Annabel. Ash unfolded the paper. A jolt went through his body. He turned away quickly so that Jace and Sebastian, deep in conversation, wouldn't see his expression. It was her, the strange human girl he'd once seen in the Unseelie weapons room. Dark hair, eyes the color of the sky he only partially remembered. A murder of crows circled in the sky behind her. Not a photograph, but a drawing, done with a wistful hand, a sense of love and longing emanating from the page. A name was scribbled in a corner: Drusilla Blackthorn. Drusilla. She looked lonely, Ash thought, but determined as well, as if a hope lived behind those summer-blue eyes, a hope that could not be quenched by loss, a hope too strong to feel despair. Ash's heart was pounding, though he could not have said why. Hastily, he folded the drawing and thrust it into his pocket. Diana was waiting for them outside the Bradbury, leaning against the closed garage door with a shotgun over her shoulder. She lowered the weapon with a look of visible relief as Emma and Julian's motorcycle puttered to a stop in front of her. "I knew you'd make it," she said as Julian swung himself off the bike. "Aw," said Emma, dismounting. "You were worried about us!" Diana tapped on the garage door with the tip of her shotgun. She said something to Emma that was lost in the grinding of the gears as the door opened. Julian watched Emma answer Diana with a smile and wondered how she did it. Somehow Emma could always find lightness or a joke even under the greatest stress. Maybe it was the same way he could stand in front of Sebastian and pretend to be the Endarkened version of himself without even feeling his hands shake. That started only when it was over. "I'm sorry I had to take off," Diana said once the door was shut and bolted and their bike stowed back under Raphael's tarp. "If I'd stuck around and you'd been caught--" "There's nothing you could have done for us," said Julian. "And they would have killed you, once they figured out who we really were." "At least this way someone was bringing the news about Tessa back to Livvy. We get it," Emma added. "Have you told her yet?" "I was waiting for you." She grinned sideways. "And I didn't want to have to tell Livvy I'd lost her brother." Her brother. The words were like dream words, half-true, however Julian might want them to be fully real. "So what did Sebastian want from you?" Diana asked as she let them back into the building. They must have come in very late the night before, Julian realized--at this hour, the corridors were still full of people, hurrying back and forth. They passed the open door of a pantry, full of canned and jarred goods. The kitchen was probably nearby; the air smelled like tomato soup. "He offered us a house in Bel Air," said Emma. Diana clucked her tongue. "Fancy. Bel Air is where Sebastian lives, and the more favored Endarkened. The moat protects it." "The one made of giant bones?" said Julian. "Yeah, that moat," said Diana. They'd reached the door of Livvy's office; Diana bumped it open with her hip and ushered them inside. Somehow Julian had thought Livvy would be alone, waiting for them, but she wasn't. She was standing at one of the long architectural tables with Bat and Maia, looking at a map of Los Angeles. Cameron was pacing up and down the room. Livvy looked up as the door opened, and relief washed across her face. For a moment Julian was watching a small Livvy at the beach, trapped on a rock by the tide, the same look of desperate relief on her face when he came to pick her up and carry her back to shore. But this Livvy was not the same little girl. She was not a little girl at all. She covered the look of relief quickly. "Glad you're back," she said. "Any luck?" Julian filled them in on the meeting with Tessa--leaving out, for now, the part where she'd asked them to kill Sebastian--while Emma went to the coffeemaker in the corner and collected hot coffee for them both. It was bitter and black and stung when he swallowed it. "I guess I owe you five thousand bucks," Cameron said to Livvy when Julian was done. "I didn't think Tessa was still alive, much less that she'd be able to get us into the Silent City." "This is great news," Maia said. She was leaning back against the edge of the map table. One hand was casually looped around her opposing elbow, and Julian could glimpse a tattoo of a lily on Maia's forearm. "We should start a strategy session. Assign groups. Some can circle the entrance to the Silent City, some can be on sniper watch, some can guard the warlock, some--" "There's also some bad news," Julian said. "On the way back from the beach we were stopped at a checkpoint. Sebastian wanted to see us." Livvy tensed all over. "What? Why?" "He thought we were the Endarkened versions of ourselves. Emma and Julian from this world," Emma said. "He knows you've got something going on here downtown," said Julian. "He even knows your name, Livvy." There was a moment of grim silence. "I told her to go by a nickname like 'The Masked Avenger,' but she wouldn't listen to me," said Bat with a forced smile. "Ah," said Emma. "Laughing in the face of danger. I approve." Livvy pinched the bridge of her nose. "That means we don't have any time to lose. Can you get in touch with Tessa?" "Now that we know where she is, anyone can borrow my bike and bring her a message," said Diana. "It's no problem." "We should do this during the day. Too many demons at night," Livvy added. "I guess that gives us a little time," Diana said. Cameron put his hand on Livvy's shoulder. It gave Julian an odd feeling-- he had been so jealous of Cameron in their own world, of the way that he and Emma behaved together when they were dating. They had everything he and Emma never would--the ability to casually touch one another, to kiss in public. Now this Cameron was Livvy's boyfriend, sparking Julian's protectiveness rather than his jealousy. He had to admit grudgingly, though, that it seemed like Cameron had been a pretty good boyfriend. He was kind, despite his awful family, and obviously thought the sun rose and set on Livvy. As well he should. "Come look at the map," said Maia, and they all gathered around. She ran a bronze-ringed finger across the paper, indicating their location. "Here's us. Here's the entrance to the Silent City. It's just a few blocks away, so we can walk over, but we probably ought to pose as Endarkened." "We'll go at dawn for the lowest demonic activity," said Livvy. "As for Tessa Gray--" "All we have to do is let her know when and she'll meet us at the Silent City entrance," said Julian. "Is it where it is in our world? Angels Flight?" Bat looked surprised. "Yeah. It's the same." Angels Flight was a narrow-gauge railway that climbed Bunker Hill in downtown L.A., its track seeming to reach up into the sky. Julian had visited it only in its capacity as the entrance to the Silent City once. "Okay." Maia clapped her hands together. "Everyone's going to be in the mess hall for dinner, so let's go put together some teams." "You get to argue with Raphael," said Bat. Maia rolled her eyes. "Sure. He always says he's not going to cooperate and then coughs up a bunch of vamp fighters at the last minute." "I'll handle the wolf contingent," said Bat. Diana threw up her hands. "And I'll rally everybody else. How many do we need? Thirty, maybe? Too big a crowd will bring attention we don't need--" "Guys," Livvy said, looking across the map table at Julian. "I'd like to talk to my brother alone, if you don't mind." "Oh, sure," Maia said. "No problem. See you in a couple." She headed out with Bat. Cameron kissed Livvy on the cheek. "See you later." "I'll be on weapons," Diana said, heading for the door. Emma met Julian's eyes. "Weapons sound great," she said. "I'll go with Diana." As soon as the door closed behind them, Livvy went over to one of the long couches and sat down. She looked at Julian with her direct gaze, so much like his Livvy's, save for the scar across her eye. "Jules," she said. "What are you not telling me? There's something you're not telling me." Julian leaned back against the long table. He spoke carefully. "What makes you think that?" "Because you told us how to break into the Silent City and get the Mortal Instruments, but you didn't say you'd found out how to destroy them. I know you wouldn't suggest we keep them--once we have them, we'll be major targets for Sebastian." "We're planning to take them back to our world," Julian said. "Sebastian won't find them there." "Okay," Livvy said slowly. "So Tessa Gray can open a Portal for you to get back home?" "No." Julian flexed his hands; his skin felt tight. "Not exactly." Livvy snapped her fingers. "And here's the part you were leaving out. What?" "Do you know a woman named Annabel?" Julian asked. "She's from our world, but you might have seen her with Sebastian here. Long dark hair--?" "That necromancer who showed up with Sebastian's kid? Her name is Annabel?" Livvy whistled. "They don't call her that here. The Legion of the Star calls her the Queen of Air and Darkness." "That's from an old poem," Julian said, looking thoughtful. "So that means Ash Morgenstern is from your world too," said Livvy. "Yes. In fact, he's from Faerie in our world. We all came through the same Portal, but it delivered them here about five years ago, I'm guessing. Two years after the Battle of the Burren. I suspect they went straight to Sebastian. She knew he was Sebastian's son, and since Sebastian's alive here, and in charge..." "I think I'm getting a headache." Livvy rubbed her temples. "Faerie, huh? I guess that explains why Ash is so close in age to his 'father.' " Julian nodded. "Time in the Undying Lands is superweird. I don't pretend to understand it." He raked a hand through his hair. "The thing is--Annabel offered me a deal." "What kind of deal?" said Livvy warily. "She's a powerful magician," Julian said. He spoke with immense deliberation. There was no need to tell Livvy that Annabel was a Blackthorn. It would bring more questions--ones he didn't want to answer. "Because she took the Black Volume from our world, she can open a Portal to get back to it. She offered to open one for us." "Why would she offer to do that for you if she's one of Sebastian's minions?" "She doesn't care about Sebastian. She only cares about Ash, and she's afraid for him. She's offering to send us back if we take him with us." "She probably isn't wrong to be worried. Sebastian ruins everyone close to him." Livvy pulled her legs up under her. "Do you trust this Annabel?" "I hate her," Julian said, before he could stop himself. He saw Livvy's eyes widen and forced himself to go on more calmly. "But I trust her feelings for Ash are real. He has a certain influence over people." "That's interesting." Livvy's gaze was slightly unfocused. "Dru saw him a couple years ago. At an execution, like the one you saw on the beach. She kept talking about him afterward, about how he didn't seem like he really wanted to be there." She tucked a piece of hair behind her ear. "Did you--if you go through the Portal, do you still want me to come with you?" "Of course I do," Julian said. "It's part of the reason I didn't turn Annabel down. I want to get you out of here." Livvy bit her lip. "What about the me that exists in your world? Won't that get confusing?" Julian said nothing; he had expected this, and yet he still had no answer. He watched her face change, settling into lines of certainty and resignation, and felt a piece of his heart wither. "I'm dead, aren't I?" Livvy's voice was steady. "I'm dead in your world. I can tell by the way you look at me." "Yeah." Julian was shivering as if he were cold, though the air was hot and still. "It was my fault, Livs. You--" "Don't." She stood up and crossed the room to him, placing her hands flat against his chest as if she meant to push him. "You didn't do anything to hurt me, Jules. I know you too well for you to convince me of that. You forget, in this world, you sacrificed yourself for me." Her Blackthorn eyes were wide and shimmering and tearless. "I'm sorry we lost each other in your world. I'd like to think somewhere we're intact. All of us together." She took a step back from him. "Let me show you something." His throat was too raw for him to speak. He watched as she turned around, her back to him, and pulled off her sweatshirt. Under it she wore a white tank top. It did nothing to hide the massive tattoo that stretched across her back like wings: a mourning rune, spreading from the base of her neck to the middle of her spine, its edges touching her shoulders. His voice cracked. "For Ty." She bent down and retrieved her sweatshirt, pulling it back on to hide the rune. When she turned back to look at him, her eyes were glittering. "For all of you," she said. "Come back home with me," Julian whispered. "Livvy--" She sighed. "I can tell you want my permission to make this deal with the necromancer, Jules. I can tell you think it would make this an easier and better choice. But I can't do that." She shook her head. "In Thule, terrible choices are all we have. This one is yours to make." At the weapons supply closet, Emma waded in happily; she'd never been that interested in guns--they didn't work on demons, so Shadowhunters didn't use them--but there were plenty of other items of localized destruction. She thrust a handful of throwing knives through her belt and headed for a table of daggers. Diana leaned against the wall and watched her with weary amusement. "In your world," she said, "you were parabatai?" Emma paused, a blade in her hand. "We were." "I wouldn't mention that too much if I were you," said Diana. "People here don't really like to think about parabatai." "Why not?" Diana sighed. "As Sebastian gained control of the world, and it became darker and more desperate, parabatai changed. It happened overnight, unlike the change of the warlocks. One day the world awoke to find that those who were parabatai had become monsters." Emma almost dropped the knife. "They became evil?" "Monsters," repeated Diana. "Their runes began to burn like fire, as if they had fire in their veins instead of blood. People said that the blades of those who fought them shattered in their hands. Black lines spread over their bodies and they became monstrous--physically monstrous. I never saw it happen, mind you--I heard this all thirdhand. Stories about ruthless, massive shining creatures, tearing cities apart. Sebastian had to release thousands of demons to take them down. A lot of mundanes and Shadowhunters died." "But why would that happen?" Emma whispered, her throat suddenly dry. "Probably the same reason the warlocks turned into demons. The world turning twisted and demonic. No one knows, really." "Are you worried that'll happen to us?" Emma asked. She was blindly picking up more weapons, not really looking at what she was taking anymore. "That we could change here?" "No chance of that," Diana said. "Once the angelic magic had stopped working completely, the few parabatai who'd survived were fine. Their bonds broke and they didn't change." Emma nodded. "I can feel that my bond with Julian is broken here." "Yeah. There are no more Shadowhunters, so there are no more parabatai. Still, like I said, I wouldn't mention it to people. Your runes will end up fading soon enough. You know. If you stay here." "If we stay here," Emma echoed, a little faintly. Her head was spinning. "Right. I think I should go back now. Julian might be wondering where I am." "I see you've been decorating," Julian said when he came into the bedroom. He looked tired but alert, his chocolate-brown hair still tousled from the bike ride. Emma glanced around--she'd liberated a startling number of weapons from the supply closet downstairs. There was a pile of daggers and throwing knives in one corner, one of swords in another, and another of LAPD-issue guns: Glocks and Berettas, mostly. "Thanks," she said. "The theme is Stuff That Can Kill You." Julian laughed and went into the bathroom; she heard the sink water running as he brushed his teeth. She'd borrowed one of the men's button- down shirts they'd given Julian and was wearing it like a nightshirt over her underwear: not, she thought, the sexiest of all pajama options, but it was comfortable. Emma curled her legs up under her and resisted the urge to ask Julian if he was all right. After she'd gotten back from her expedition with Diana, she'd waited for Julian with growing anxiety. This was a world that could hurt them in a lot of ways. They could be slaughtered by demons or hunted down by Endarkened. And if they'd arrived earlier, apparently, they could have turned into monsters and destroyed a city. There is a corruption at the heart of the bond of parabatai. A poison. A darkness in it that mirrors its goodness. There is a reason parabatai cannot fall in love, and it is monstrous beyond all you could imagine. She shook her head. She wouldn't listen to the lying words of the Queen. Everything in Thule was twisted and monstrous--of course the parabatai bond would not have been spared. More real and dangerous was the shadow of heartbreak around every corner. She knew how badly Julian wanted this Livvy to come back to their world with them, but she had seen Livvy's expression when he'd asked, and she wondered. When he came back to the bedroom, his hair and T-shirt were damp, and he looked slightly more awake. She guessed he'd splashed water on his face. "Did they have crossbows?" he asked, examining the pile of swords. He picked one up and examined it, the blade refracting light as he turned it this way and that. Butterflies fluttered in Emma's stomach. Only a few, but there was something about watching Julian be a Shadowhunter, be the warrior she had watched him grow into. The muscles moved smoothly in his arm and shoulder as he manipulated the blade and set it back down again, a considering look on his face. Emma hoped her cheeks weren't pink. "I got you one. It's in the wardrobe." He went to check. "If we make it to the Silent City without any Endarkened or demons noticing, we might not have to use any of these." "Diana always said the best weapons were kept in great shape for use but never needed to be used," said Emma. "Of course I never really knew what she was talking about." "Obviously." He smiled, but it didn't reach his eyes. "Emma, I need to tell you something." She pushed herself upright against the headboard of the bed. Her heart skipped a beat, but she tried to keep her expression calm and welcoming. Julian wasn't great at opening up even when he had emotions; still, she'd missed their sharing of each other's secrets and burdens more than anything else when he'd been under the spell. He sat down on the edge of the bed and looked up at the ceiling. "I didn't tell Livvy about Tessa asking us to kill Sebastian," he said. "Sure," Emma said. "If we can't get into the Silent City and get the Mortal Instruments, it'll never matter anyway. Why freak her out early?" "But I did tell her that if we got the Sword and the Cup, we'd bring them back with us. To protect them." Emma waited. She wasn't sure where Julian was going with this. "When we were in the Seelie Court," Julian said, "just this last time--when I talked to the Queen--she told me how it would be possible to break all parabatai bonds at once." Emma gripped the covers. "Yes. And you told me it was impossible." His eyes were windows to an ocean that no longer existed in this world. "We did what she asked," he said. "We brought her the Black Volume. So she told me, because she thought it would be funny. You see, there's only one way to do it. You have to destroy the first recorded parabatai rune, which is kept in the Silent City. And you have to do it with the Mortal Sword." "And in our world, the Sword is shattered," Emma said. It made sense, in a twisted way: She could imagine the Queen's delight in delivering that news. "I didn't tell you because I thought it didn't matter," he said. "It was never going to be possible. The Sword was broken." "And you didn't tell me because of the spell," she said, gently. "You didn't feel like you had to." "Yeah," he said. He took a shuddering breath. "But now we're talking about bringing this sword back to our world, and I know it's a million-in-one shot, but it could be possible--I mean, we could be looking at that choice. I could be." There were a million things Emma wanted to say. You promised you wouldn't and it would be a terrible thing to do trembled on the tip of her tongue. She remembered the moral surety she'd felt when Julian had first told her the Queen had dangled this temptation in front of him. But it was hard after Livvy's death to have moral surety about anything. "I asked Magnus to put that spell on me because I was terrified," Julian said. "I imagined us turning into monsters. Destroying everything we loved. I still had Livvy's blood under my fingernails." His voice shook. "But there's something else I'm just as afraid of, and that's why the Queen's voice keeps echoing in my mind." Emma looked at him, waiting. "Losing you," he said. "You're the only person I've ever loved like this, and I know you're the only person I ever will. And I'm not myself without you, Emma. Once you dissolve dye in water, you can't take it back out. It's like that. I can't take you out of me. It means cutting out my heart, and I don't like myself without my heart. I know that now." "Julian," Emma whispered. "I'm not going to do it," he said. "I'm not going to use the Sword. I can't cause other people pain like the pain I've felt. But if we do get home, and we have the Sword, I think we need to trade it to the Inquisitor for exile. I think we don't have another choice." "True exile?" Emma said. "They'll separate us from the kids, Julian, they'll separate you--" "I know," he said. "There was a time I thought there could be nothing worse. But I realize now I was wrong. I held Livvy while she died, and that was worse. What happened to Livvy here--losing all of us--that's unimaginably worse. I asked myself whether I would rather go through what Mark went through--being cut off from his family but thinking of them as well and happy--or what Livvy went through here, knowing her brothers and sisters were dead. It's no question. I'd rather they were safe and alive even if I couldn't be with them." "I don't know, Julian--" His expression was nakedly vulnerable. "Unless you don't feel that way about me anymore," he said. "If you'd stopped loving me while I was under the spell, I wouldn't blame you." "I guess that would solve our problem," she said without thinking. Julian flinched. Emma crawled hastily across the bed toward him. She knelt in the center of the coverlet and reached to touch his shoulder. He turned his head to look at her, wincing a little, as if he were looking at the sun. "Julian," she said. "I was angry at you. I missed you. But I didn't stop loving you." She brushed the back of her hand lightly against his cheek. "As long as you exist and I exist, I will love you." "Emma." He moved to kneel on the bed opposite her. She was a head shorter than him in this position. He touched her hair, drawing it forward over her shoulder. His eyes were shadow dark. "I don't know what will happen when we get back," he said. "I don't know if asking for exile from Dearborn will work. I don't know if we'll be separated. But if we are, I'll think of what you just said and it will carry me through whatever happens. In the dark, in the shadows, in the times when I am alone, I will remember." Her eyes stung. "I can say it again." "No need." He touched her cheek lightly. "I'll always remember what you looked like when you said it." "Then I wish I'd worn something a little sexier," she said with a shaky laugh. His eyes darkened--that desire-darkening that only she ever got to see. "Believe me, there is nothing hotter than you in one of my shirts," he said. He touched the collar of the shirt lightly. Goose bumps exploded across her skin. His voice was low and rough. "I've always wanted you. Even when I didn't know it." "Even during our parabatai ceremony?" She half-expected him to laugh, but instead his finger traced the material of her shirt, along her collarbone to the notch at the base of her throat. "Especially then." "Julian..." "Entreat me not to leave thee," he whispered, "or to return from following after thee." He flicked open the top button of her shirt, baring a small patch of skin. He looked up at her and she nodded, dry-mouthed: Yes, I want this, yes. "Whither thou goest, I will go." His fingers glided downward. Another button flicked open. The swell of her breasts was visible; his pupils expanded, darkened. There was something heretical about it, something that carried the frisson of the ultimately forbidden. The words of the parabatai ceremony were not meant to convey desire. Yet every word shivered through Emma's nerves, as if the wings of angels brushed her skin. She reached for his shirt, drew it up over his head. Smoothed her hands down his chest to the dip of his waist, the ridged muscles in his abdomen. Traced each scar. "And where thou lodgest, I will lodge." His fingers found another button, and another. Her shirt fell open with a whisper of cloth. Slowly, he pushed it off her shoulders, letting it slip down her arms. His eyes were ravenous but his hands were gentle; he stroked her bare shoulders and bent to kiss the places the shirt had revealed, tracing a path between her breasts as she arched backward in his arms. He murmured against her skin. "Thy people shall be my people. Thy God, my God." She tumbled backward, pulling Julian on top of her. His weight pressed her down into the softness of the bed. He curled his hands beneath her body and kissed her long and slow. She traced her fingers through his hair as she had always loved to do, the silky curls tickling her palms. They shed their clothes unhurriedly. Each new piece of skin revealed was cause for another reverent touch, another slow kiss. "Whither thou diest, will I die," Julian whispered against her mouth. She unbuckled his jeans and he kicked them away. She could feel him hard against her, but there was no haste: His fingers traced the curves of her, the dips and hollows of her body, as if he were describing a portrait of her in gilt and ivory with each brush of his hands. She wrapped her legs around him to keep him close to her. His lips grazed her cheek, her hair, as he moved inside her; his gaze never broke with hers, drawing them both upward. They rose as one in fire and sparks, every moment brighter; and when at last they broke and fell together, they were stars collapsing in gold and glory. Afterward, Emma curled into and against Julian, breathless. He was flushed, sheened with sweat, as he gathered her hair in one hand, winding it through his fingers. "If aught hut death part thee and me, Emma," he said, and pressed his lips to the strands. Emma closed her eyes as she whispered, "Julian. Julian. If aught hut death part thee and me." Julian sat on the edge of the bed, looking into the darkness. His heart was full of Emma, but his mind was in turmoil. He was glad he had told her the truth about the Queen's words, about his determination to seek exile. He had meant to say more. As long as you exist and I exist, I will love you. The words had filled his heart and broken it. The danger of loving Emma had become like a battle scar: a source of pride, a memory of pain. He hadn't been able to say the rest: But what if the spell comes hack when we go home? What if I stop understanding what it means to love you? She had been so brave, his Emma, and so beautiful, and he had wanted her so badly his hands had been shaking as he unbuttoned her shirt, as he reached into the nightstand drawer. She was asleep now, the blankets drawn up around her, her shoulder a pale crescent moon. And he was sitting on the edge of the bed, holding the jeweled dagger Emma had brought up earlier from the weapons closet downstairs. He turned it over in his hand. It was small, with a sharp blade, and red stones in the pommel. He could hear the Queen's voice in his head. In the Land of Faerie, as mortals feel no sorrow, neither can they feel joy. He thought of the way he and Emma had always written on each other's skin with their fingers, spelling words no one else could hear. He thought of the great hollow that he had carried around inside him after the spell, without knowing he carried it, like a mundane possessed by a demon that clung to his back and fed on his soul, never knowing where the misery came from. Once you no longer feel empathy, you become a monster. You may not he under the spell here, Julian Blackthorn, hut what about when you return? What will you do then, when you cannot bear to feel what you feel? He stretched out his arm and brought the blade down. <|title|>Chapter 21: No Rays from Heaven <|startofchapter|>DicHia came at dawn and pounded on their door. Emma woke groggy, her hair tangled and her lips sore. She rolled over to find Julian lying on his side, fully dressed in a long-sleeved black shirt and army-green pants. He looked freshly showered, his hair too wet to be curly, his mouth tasting like toothpaste when she leaned over to kiss him. Had he even slept at all? She staggered off to shower and dress. With every piece of clothing she put on, she felt another layer of anticipation, waking her up more surely than caffeine or sugar ever could. Long-sleeved shirt. Padded vest. Canvas pants. Thick-soled boots. Daggers and chigiriki through her belt, throwing stars in her pockets, a longsword in a scabbard on her back. She bound her hair into a braid and, with some reluctance, picked up a gun and tucked it into the holster attached to her belt. "Done," she announced. Julian was leaning against the wall by the door, one booted foot braced behind him. He flicked a piece of hair out of his eyes. "I've been ready for hours," he said. Emma threw a pillow at him. It was nice to have their banter back, she thought, as they headed downstairs. Strange how humor and the ability to joke were tied to emotions; a Julian who didn't feel was a Julian whose humor was a dark and bitter one. The mess hall was crowded and smelled like coffee. Werewolves, vampires, and former Shadowhunters sat at long tables, eating and drinking from chipped and mismatched bowls and mugs. It was an oddly unified scene, Emma thought. She couldn't imagine a situation in her world where a big group of Shadowhunters and Downworlders would be seated together for a casual meal. Maybe Alec and Magnus's Downworlder-Shadowhunter Alliance ate together, but she had to admit she knew shamefully little about them. "Hey." It was Maia, showing them to a long table where Bat and Cameron were sitting. Two bowls of oatmeal and mugs of coffee had been put out for them. Emma glared at the coffee as she sat down. Even in Thule, everyone assumed she drank the stuff. "Eat," said Maia, sliding into a chair next to Bat. "We all need the energy." "Where's Livvy?" said Julian, taking a bite of oatmeal. "Over there." Cameron pointed with his spoon. "Running around putting out fires as usual." Emma tried the oatmeal. It tasted like cooked paper. "Here." Maia handed her a small chipped bowl. "Cinnamon. Makes it taste better." As Emma took the bowl, she noticed that there were other tattoos on Maia's arm alongside the lily--a fletched arrow, a lick of blue flame, and a sage leaf. "Do those mean something?" she asked. Julian was chatting with Cameron, something Emma couldn't have imagined happening in her world. She was a little surprised it was happening here. "Your tattoos, I mean." Maia touched the small illustrations with light fingers. "They honor my fallen friends," she said quietly. "The sage leaf is for Clary. The arrow and flame are for Alec and Magnus. The lily..." "Lily Chen," Emma said, thinking of Raphael's expression when she'd said Lily's name. "Yes," Maia said. "We became friends in New York after the Battle of the Burren." "I'm so sorry about your friends." Maia sat back. "Don't be sorry, Emma Carstairs," she said. "You and Julian have brought us hope. This--today--this is the first move we've made against Sebastian, the first thing we've done that hasn't been just about surviving. So thank you for that." The backs of Emma's eyes stung. She looked down and took another bite of oatmeal. Maia was right--it was better with cinnamon. "Do you not want your coffee?" Diana said, appearing at their table. She was dressed entirely in black from head to toe, two bullet belts lashed around her waist. "I'll drink it." Emma shuddered. "Take it away. I'd be grateful." A group of people dressed in black like Diana, carrying guns, marched out the door in formation. "Snipers," Diana said. "They'll be covering us from above." "Diana, we will be going on ahead now," said Raphael, appearing out of nowhere in that irritating way vampires had. He hadn't bothered with any kind of military clothes; he wore jeans and a T-shirt and looked about fifteen. "You're scouting?" Emma said. "That's my excuse for not traveling with you humans, yes," said Raphael. It was somewhat mysterious, Emma thought, that Magnus and Alec had liked this guy enough to name their kid after him. "But I was so looking forward to playing I Spy," she said. "You would have lost," said Raphael. "Vampires excel at I Spy." As he stalked away, he paused to talk to someone. Livvy. She patted him on the shoulder, and to Emma's surprise he didn't glare--he nodded, an almost friendly nod, and went to join his group of vampire scouts. They headed out the door as Livvy approached Emma and Julian's table. "Everybody's ready," she said. She looked a lot like she had when they'd first seen her in Thule. Tough and ready for anything. Her hair was pulled back into a tight ponytail; she bent over to kiss Cameron on the cheek and patted Julian's shoulder. "Jules, you and Emma come with me. We've got fog today." "Fog doesn't seem so bad," Emma said. Livvy sighed. "You'll see." Emma did see. Fog in Thule was like everything else in Thule: surprisingly horrible. They left the Bradbury in a small group: Emma, Julian, Livvy, Cameron, Bat, Maia, Divya, Rayan, and a few other rebels Emma didn't know by name. And the fog had hit them like a wall: thick columns of mist rising from the ground and drifting through the air, turning everything more than a few feet ahead into a blur. It smelled like burning, like the smoke from a deep fire. "It'll make your eyes sting, and your throat, too, but it doesn't hurt you," Livvy said as they split up into smaller groups, spreading out across Broadway. "Sucks for the snipers, though. No visibility." She was walking with Emma and Julian in the gutter next to the pavement. They followed Livvy, since she seemed to know where she was going. The fog cut the dim light of the dying sun almost completely; Livvy had taken out a flashlight and was aiming the beam into the mist ahead. "At least there won't be any cars," Livvy said. "Sometimes the Endarkened try to run you over if they think you're unsworn. But no one drives around in the fog." "Does it ever rain?" asked Emma. "Believe me," said Livvy, "you do not want to be here when it rains." Her tone suggested both that Emma shouldn't inquire further and that it probably rained knives or rabid frogs. The white fog seemed to shroud sound as well as sight. They padded along, their footsteps muffled, following Livvy's flashlight beam. Julian seemed lost in thought; Livvy glanced at him, and then at Emma. "I have something I want you to take," she said in a voice so low Emma had to lean in to hear it. "It's a letter I wrote for Ty." She slipped the envelope into Emma's hand; Emma tucked it into her inside pocket after glancing at the scrawled name on the envelope. Tiberius. "Okay." Emma looked straight ahead. "But if you aren't coming back through the Portal with us, you have to tell Julian." "The Portal's not really a sure thing, is it?" Livvy said mildly. "We're going to get back," Emma said. "Somehow." Livvy inclined her head, acknowledging Emma's determination. "I haven't made up my mind yet." "Look," Julian said. He seemed to sharpen around the edges as he came closer to them, no longer blurred by the fog. "We're there." Angels Flight loomed up above them, its bulk cutting through the mist. The railway itself had been fenced off long ago, back when people cared about things like safety, but the fencing had been trampled down, and torn strips of chain link lay scattered on the pavement. Two wooden trolley cars lay on their sides halfway up the hill, toppled from the tracks like broken toys. An ornate orange-and-black archway with the words angels flight towered over the railway entrance. Standing in front of one of the pillars holding up the archway was Tessa. She wasn't disguised as Jem today. Nor was she dressed like a Shadowhunter or a Silent Brother. She wore a plain black dress, her hair loose and straight. She looked about Clary's age. "You're here," she said. Livvy had stopped in her tracks; she held out a hand indicating Julian and Emma should stop as well. She flicked off her flashlight as several dozen figures emerged from the mist. Emma tensed, then relaxed as she recognized them--Diana. Bat. Cameron. Raphael. Maia. And dozens more rebels, clad in black and green. They stood in silence in two long rows. Military formation. None of them moved. Tessa looked at Livvy wonderingly. "Are all of these people your people?" "Yes," Livvy said. She was regarding Tessa with a mix of distrust and hope. "These are my people." Tessa smiled, a sudden and wonderful smile. "You've done well, Livia Blackthorn. You've honored your family name." Livvy seemed taken aback. "My family?" "Long have there been Blackthorns," said Tessa, "and long have they lived with honor. I see much honor here." She glanced in the direction of the rebels, and then turned--seeming unconcerned with the show of force at her back--and raised her hands in front of her. There was indrawn breath from the rebels as Tessa's fingers sparked with yellow fire. A door--two doors--evolved under her hands, filling the archway. Each was a massive slab of stone. Across them both had been crudely carved a phrase in Latin. Nescis quid serus vesper vehat. "Who knows what nightfall brings?" Julian translated, and a shiver went up Emma's spine. Tessa brushed the yellow flames of her fingers across the doors, and a loud grinding sound cut through the muffling fog. The doors shuddered and began to slide apart, dust showering down from years of disuse. A hollow, booming cry echoed from the darkness as the doors slid open completely. Deep blackness was all that was visible beyond the entrance: Emma could not see the stairs she knew led down into the Silent City. She could see only shadow. Emma and Julian stepped forward, Emma peering into the blackness of the Silent City's entrance, just as Tessa sank to the ground. They darted to her side. She pushed herself upright against a pillar, her face as white as the mist. "I'm all right, I'm all right," she said, though up close, the sides of her mouth and eyes were threaded with scarlet, as if the small blood vessels there had burst with strain. "We should hurry. It isn't wise to leave the Silent City open--" She tried to struggle to her feet and sank back down again with a gasp. Livvy handed her flashlight to Emma and knelt down beside Tessa. "Cameron! Diana! Go with Emma and Jules into the Bone City. Maia, I need a medic." There was a flurry of activity. As Cameron and Diana came to join them, Emma tried to argue that she should be the one to stay with Tessa, but Livvy was adamant. "You did the parabatai ceremony," she said. "You know the Silent City. There's no reason its architecture here should be any different." "Hurry," Tessa said again as Maia bent down beside her with a first-aid kit. "The Instruments are in the Star Chamber." She coughed. "Go!" Emma flipped Livvy's flashlight on and darted through the entrance of the City, Julian beside her, Cameron and Diana taking the rear. The noise of the street above vanished almost immediately, muffled by the fog and the heavy stone walls. The Silent City was more silent than it had ever been, she thought. The beam of the flashlight bounced off the walls, illuminating chipped stone, and, as they made their way deeper underground, polished white and yellow bone. Livvy had been right. The architecture of the Silent City was the same here. Julian walked alongside Emma, reminding her of the last time they'd been to this place together, at their parabatai ceremony. The city had smelled old then, like bones and dust and stone, but it had been a living and inhabited place. Now it smelled of stale air, disuse, and death. It was not her City of Bones, of course. But she had been taught from childhood that all Cities were one City; there were different entrances but only one stronghold. As they passed through the arched rooms of mausoleums, Emma could not help but think: Never will more warriors be added to this army; never will more ashes help to build the City of Bones. They ducked through a tunnel that opened into a square pavilion. Spires of carved bone occupied each corner. Squares of marble like a checkerboard, bronze and red, made up the floor; in the center was the mosaic that gave the room its name, a parabolic design of silver stars. A black basalt table ran along one wall. Laid out atop it were two objects: a cup and a sword. The Cup was gold, with a ruby-studded rim; the sword was a heavy dark silver, with a hilt in the shape of angel wings. Emma knew them both. Every Shadowhunter did, from a thousand paintings and tapestries and illustrations in history books. She noticed, with a strange detached surprise, that neither the Cup nor the Sword had gathered any dust. Cameron inhaled sharply. "I never thought I'd actually see them again. Not after the War." "Give me the flashlight," Diana said, reaching out her hand to Emma. "Go on, you two." Emma handed over the light, and she and Julian approached the table. Julian picked up the Cup and tucked it through the strap of the Sam Browne belt across his chest, then zipped his jacket up over it. It took Emma a moment longer to steel herself to pick up the sword. Her last sight of it had been in Annabel's hand as Annabel had cut down Robert Lightwood and plunged the shards of the sword into Livvy's chest. But this was another sword: unbloodied, unbroken. She took hold of the grip and switched it with the longsword on her back; the Mortal Sword was a heavy weight against her spine, and she remembered what the Queen had said: that the Nephilim had once been giants on the earth, with the strength of a thousand men. "We'd better go," Diana said. "Like the warlock said, better not to leave this place open too long." Cameron looked around with a shiver of distaste. "Can't get out of here too soon for me." As they passed through the City, the beam of the flashlight danced off the semiprecious stones embedded in the archways of bone. They gleamed in a way that made Emma sad: What was the point of beauty nobody saw? They reached a tunnel and she realized with relief they must be getting close to the stairs and the surface: She could hear the wind, the sound of a car backfiring She stiffened. Nobody drives in the fog. "What's that noise?" she said. They all jerked to attention. The sound came again, and this time Cameron paled. "Gunshots," Diana said, sliding a gun out of the holster on her hip. "Livvy." Cameron began to run; he'd gone a few feet when figures loomed up out of the shadows, figures of smoke and scarlet. A silver blade slashed out of the darkness. "Endarkened!" Julian shouted. Emma's longsword was already in her left hand; she raced forward, seizing a bo-shuriken out of her belt and hurling it toward one of the figures in red. They staggered back, a spray of blood painting the wall behind them. An Endarkened woman with long brown hair lunged toward her. Cameron was struggling with one at the foot of a set of stairs. A shot rang out, echoing in Emma's ears; the Endarkened fell like a rock. Emma glanced back to see Julian lowering a pistol, his expression stony. Smoke still curled from the muzzle. "Go!" Diana dropped the flashlight, shoved Emma from behind, and took aim. "Get to Livvy! Get to the others!" The implication was clear: Get the Cup and Sword away from the Endarkened. Emma took off, longsword in hand, laying about her in double arcs of slashing blows; she saw Cameron struggling with an Endarkened she recognized as Dane Larkspear. Rotten in one world, rotten in another, she thought, as Cameron kicked Dane's legs out from under him. There were more Endarkened coming, though, from one of the other tunnels. She heard Julian shout, and then they were rocketing up the stairs, Emma with her sword and Julian with his gun. They burst out of the entrance to the Silent City-- And into the middle of a horrible tableau. Fog was still curling everywhere, white strands like the web of an enormous spider. But Emma could see what she needed to see. Dozens of Livvy's rebels knelt in silence, hands behind their heads. Behind them stood long rows of Endarkened armed with bayonets and machine guns. Tessa was still slumped against the pillar of the archway, but it was Raphael holding her now, and with surprising care. Livvy was on her feet, in the center of the group of Endarkened and rebels. She was on her feet because Julian--a taller, older, bigger Julian, with a bleak, deadly grin, dressed all in red--was standing behind her, one arm lashed around her throat. His free hand held a pistol to her temple. Behind him stood Sebastian, in another expensive dark suit, and with Sebastian, flanking him, were Jace and Ash. Ash was weaponless, but Jace carried a sword that Emma recognized: Heosphoros, which in her world had been Clary's. It was a beautiful sword, its cross-guard gold and obsidian, the dark silver blade stamped with black stars. Everything seemed to slow to a crawl. Emma heard Julian's breath rattle in his throat; he stopped dead, as if he had been turned to stone. "Julian Blackthorn," Sebastian said, and the white mist curling around him was the color of his hair, of Ash's hair. Two winter princes. "Did you really think I'd be fooled by your poor performance in the nightclub?" "Annabel," Julian said, his voice hoarse, and Emma knew what he was thinking: Annabel must have betrayed them, Annabel, who knew who they really were. Sebastian's brow furrowed. "What about Annabel?" Ash shook his head slightly. It was a tiny movement, a minuscule negation, but Emma saw it, and she was fairly sure Julian had seen it too. No, he was saying. Annabel didn't betray you. But why would Ash--? "Drop your gun," Sebastian said, and Julian did, tossing it into the fog. Sebastian had barely looked at Emma; now he turned his lazy, contemptuous gaze in her direction. "And you. Drop that cheap sword." Emma dropped the longsword with a clang. Had he not seen the Mortal Sword strapped across her back? "You have the sun in your skin," Sebastian said. "That alone would have told me you weren't from Thule. And thanks to Ash, I know the story of your world. I knew of the Portal. I've been wondering all this time if one of you would stumble through it. I knew you'd go straight for the Mortal Instruments to hide them from me. All I had to do was post some guards here and wait for the tip-off." He grinned like a jaguar. "Now hand over the Mortal Instruments, or Julian here will blow your sister's head off." The real Julian looked at Livvy. Emma was screaming inside: He can't watch her die again, not again, nobody could live through that twice. Livvy's gaze was steady on her brother's. There was no fear in her expression. "You won't let her live," Julian said. "No matter what I do, you'll kill her." Sebastian grinned a little wider. "You'll have to wait and see." "All right," Julian said. His shoulders slumped. "I'm reaching for the Cup," he said, holding up one hand as the other unzipped his jacket. Emma watched him in dismay as he reached inside. "I'm going to hold it out to you--" He drew his hand out from his jacket; he was holding a throwing knife, small and sharp with red stones in the hilt; Emma barely had time to recognize it before he had flung it. It whipped through the air, grazing Livvy's cheek and sinking deeply into the eye of the Endarkened Julian who held her. He didn't even scream. He fell back, hitting the pavement with a thud, his pistol rolling out of his open hand; Sebastian shouted but Livvy was already gone, ducking and rolling into the mist. Emma drew the Mortal Sword and charged, directly at Sebastian. The world exploded into chaos. Sebastian yelled for his Endarkened and they came running, abandoning the rebels to throw themselves between Emma and their leader. Jace lunged at Emma, pushing Ash behind him, but Julian was already there; he had caught up the fallen longsword and it clanged, hard, against Heosphoros as he drove Jace back, away from Emma. Emma slashed out at the nearest Endarkened with the Mortal Sword. Its heaviness had turned to light in her grip; it sang as she wielded it as only Cortana had sung in her hand before, and suddenly she remembered its name: Maellartach. An Endarkened with close-cropped blond hair aimed a pistol at her; the bullet clanged off the blade of Maellartach. The Endarkened gaped at her and Emma drove the Mortal Sword into his chest, flinging him backward with such force that he took another Endarkened down with him as he fell. She heard someone cry out; it was Livvy, leaping into the fray. She ducked, rolled, and shot, taking out an Endarkened who was charging at Bat. The sounds of battle echoed like dull thunder off the walls of mist that curled and slid around them. Maellartach was a silver blur in Emma's hand, turning away blades and bullets as she inched closer to Sebastian. She saw Bat move toward Ash, bayonet in hand. Ash wasn't moving; he was standing watching the chaos like an onlooker at the theater. "Put your hands behind your back," Bat said, and Ash glanced over at him with a frown, as if he were a rude guest who had interrupted a play. Bat raised the bayonet. "Look, kid, you'd better--" Ash fixed Bat with a steady green gaze. "You don't want to do that," he said. Bat froze, gripping his weapon. Ash turned and walked away--not hurrying, almost sauntering, really--and vanished into the fog. "Bat! Look out!" Maia shouted, and Bat spun to plunge his bayonet into the body of an advancing Endarkened warrior. And then came the scream. A howl of agony so shrill and intense, it pierced the fog. A woman in Endarkened gear flew across the square, her hair unfurling behind her like a banner spun out of gold, and threw herself across the dead body of this world's Julian Blackthorn. Emma knew it was herself; the herself of Thule, clutching at the body of her dead partner, sobbing against his chest, her fingers clawing his blood-wet clothes. She screamed over and over, each a sharp, short howl, like a car alarm going off on an empty street. Emma couldn't help staring, and Julian--her own Julian--jerked in surprise and spun to look--recognizing the sound of Emma's voice, she guessed. The split-second break in his attention left an opening for Jace, who lunged forward with Heosphoros; Julian, twisting to the side, just barely avoided the blade, but stumbled; Jace swept his feet out from under him and he went down. No. Emma spun around, reversing course, but if Jace brought the sword down, there was no way she'd get there in time-- A plume of yellow flame shot between Jace and Julian. Julian scrambled back as Jace turned to stare; Raphael was holding Tessa upright, and her hand was stretched out, yellow fire still dancing at her fingertips. She looked frayed and exhausted, but her eyes were dark with sorrow as they fixed on Jace. It was an odd, frozen moment, the kind that sometimes happened in the midst of battle. It was broken by a figure stumbling from the entrance to the Silent City--Diana, bloodstained and panting, but alive. Emma's heart leaped with relief. Sebastian's eyes narrowed. "Go into the City!" he shouted. "Find everything! Spell books! Records! Bring it all to me!" Tessa gasped. "No--the destruction he could wreak--" Jace immediately turned away from Julian, as if he'd forgotten he was there. "Endarkened," he called. His voice was deep and flat, without tone or emotion. "Come to me." Emma turned to run toward the City entrance; she could hear Sebastian laughing. Julian had sprung to his feet and was beside her; Livvy spun, kicked at an Endarkened, and ran toward Tessa and the others. "Shut the doors! Shut the doors!" "No!" Diana looked wildly around the scene of carnage. "Cameron's still in there!" Julian turned toward Tessa. "What can we do?" "I can shut the doors, but you must understand that I cannot open them again," Tessa said. "Cameron will be trapped." A look of agony passed across Livvy's face. Jace and the other Endarkened were moving toward them; there were seconds to spare. The agony didn't leave Livvy's eyes, but her jaw hardened. In that moment, she had never looked more like Julian. "Close the doors," she said. "Stop the warlock!" Sebastian cried. "Stop her--" He broke off with a howl. Maia, behind him, had plunged a sword into his side. The blade drove into him, smeared with blackish blood. He barely seemed to notice. "Tessa--" Emma began, and she didn't know what she planned to say, whether she planned to ask Tessa if she had the strength to close the doors, whether she intended to tell her to do it or not to do it. Tessa moved before she could finish her sentence, raising her slender arms, murmuring words Emma would always try to remember and always find sliding out of her mind. Golden sparks flew from Tessa's fingers, illuminating the archway. The doors began to slide closed, grinding and rattling. Sebastian yelled with rage and grabbed the sword protruding from his side. He yanked it free and flung it at Maia, who threw herself to the ground to avoid being struck. "Stop!" he shouted, striding toward the entrance to the City. "Stop now --" The doors slammed shut with an echo that reverberated through the fog. Emma looked at Tessa, who gave her a sweet, sad smile. Blood was running from the corners of Tessa's mouth, from her split fingernails. "No," said Raphael. He had been so quiet, Emma had almost forgotten he was there. "Tessa--" Tessa Gray burst into flame. It was not as if she had caught fire, not really; in between one moment and the next, she became fire, became a glowing pillar of conflagration. The burning light was white and gold: It cut through the mist, illuminating the world. Raphael fell back, an arm across his face to shield himself from the light. In the brilliance, Emma could see sharp details: the cut across Livvy's face where Julian's blade had grazed her, the tears in Diana's eyes, the rage on Sebastian's face as he stared at the shut doors, the fear of the Endarkened as they cringed away from the light. "Cowards! The light cannot hurt you!" Sebastian shouted. "Fight on!" "We have to get back to the Bradbury," Livia said desperately. "We have to get out of here." "Livvy," Julian said. "We can't lead them back to your headquarters. We have to deal with them now." "And there's only one way to do that," Emma said. She tightened her grip on the Mortal Sword and started toward Sebastian. She was burning with a new fury, filling her, sustaining her. Cameron. Tessa. She thought of Livvy, having lost someone else she loved. And she launched herself at Sebastian, the Mortal Sword curving through the air like a whip made of fire and gold. Sebastian growled. Phaesphoros leaped into his hand, and he strode toward Emma. Fury seemed to dance around him like sparks. "You think to strike me down with the Mortal Sword," he said. "Isabelle Lightwood tried that, and now she molders in a grave in Idris." "What if I cut your head off?" Emma taunted. "Do you keep on being the dickweed ruler of this planet in two different pieces?" Sebastian spun, the Morgenstern sword a black-and-silver blur. Emma leaped, the sword slashing under her feet. She landed on a toppled fire hydrant. "Go ahead and try," Sebastian said in a bored voice. "Others have; I cannot be killed. I will tire you out, girl, and cut you into puzzle pieces to amuse the demons." The clash of battle was all around them. Tessa's fire was dimming, and in the clamor of the mist, Emma could just see Julian, battling Jace. Julian had taken one of the Endarkened's swords and was fighting defensively, as Diana had taught them when their opponent was stronger than they were. Livvy was fighting Endarkened with a new anger and energy. So was Raphael. As Emma flicked her glance toward the others, she saw Raphael seize a red-haired Endarkened woman and tear her throat out with his teeth. And then she saw it: a glow in the distance. A whirling, spinning illumination she knew well: the light of a Portal. Emma leaped down off the fire hydrant and pressed her attack; Sebastian actually fell back for a moment in surprise before he recovered and struck back even harder. The blade hummed in Emma's hand as her heart beat out two words: distract him, distract him. Phaesphorus slammed against Maellartach. Sebastian bared his teeth in a grin that was nothing like a real grin. Emma wondered if he'd once been able to fake a human smile and forgotten how. She thought of the way Clary spoke of him, of someone who had been lost long before he died. A sharp pain cut through her. Sebastian's sword had scored the front of her left thigh; blood stained the rip in her canvas pants. He grinned again and kicked her wound, violently; the pain whited out her vision and she felt herself tilt. She hit the ground with a crack that she was fairly sure was her collarbone snapping. "You begin to bore me," Sebastian said, prowling above her like a cat. Her vision was blurry with pain, but she could see the Portal light growing stronger. The air seemed to shimmer. In the distance, she could still hear the other Emma sobbing. "Other worlds," he mused. "Why should I care about some other world when I rule this one? What should some other world mean to me?" "Do you want to know how you died there?" Emma said. The pain of her broken bone seared through her. She could hear battle all around her, hear Julian and Jace fighting. She fought to keep from fainting. The longer she distracted Sebastian, the better. "You want to live forever in this world," she said. "Don't you want to know how you died in our world? Maybe it could happen here, too. Ash wouldn't know about it. Neither would Annabel. But I do." He lowered Phaesphoros and let the tip of it nick her collarbone. Emma almost screamed from the pain. "Tell me." "Clary killed you," Emma said, and saw his eyes fly wide open. "With heavenly fire. It burned out everything that was evil in you, and there wasn't enough left to live for long. But you died in your mother's arms, and your sister cried over you. In the club yesterday you talked about the weight on you, crushing you. In our world, your last words were 'I've never felt so light.'" His face twisted. For a moment there was fear there, in his eyes, and more than fear--regret, perhaps, even pain. "You lie," he hissed, sliding the tip of his sword down to her sternum, where a stabbing blow would sever her abdominal aorta. She would bleed out in agony. "Tell me it isn't the truth. Tell me!" His hand tightened on the blade. There was a blur behind him, a flurry of wings, and something struck him hard, a blow to the shoulder that made him stagger sideways. Emma saw Sebastian whirl around, a look of fury on his face. "Ash! What are you doing?" Emma's mouth dropped open in surprise. It ruas Ash--and from his back extended a pair of wings. For Emma, who had been raised all her life on images of Raziel, it was like a blow: She pushed herself up on her elbows, staring. They were angel's wings, and yet they weren't. They were black, tipped with silver; they shimmered like the night sky. She guessed they were wider than the span of his outstretched arms. They were beautiful, the most beautiful thing she had seen in Thule. "No," Ash said calmly, looking at his father, and plucked the sword from Sebastian's hand. He stepped back, and Emma rolled to her feet, her collarbone screaming in pain, and thrust the Mortal Sword into Sebastian's chest. She yanked it free, feeling the blade scrape against the bone of his rib cage, prepared to thrust again, to cut him to pieces-- As she drew the sword back, he shuddered. He hadn't made a sound when she stabbed him; now his mouth opened, and black blood cascaded over his lower lip and chin as his eyes rolled back. Emma could hear the Endarkened screaming. His skin began to split and burn. He threw his head back in a silent scream and burst apart into ashes, the way demons vanished in Emma's world. The screaming of Thule Emma cut off abruptly. She sprawled lifeless over her Julian's body. One by one, the other Endarkened began to fall, crumpling at the feet of the rebels they were fighting. Jace gave a cry and fell to his knees. Behind him Emma could see the illumination of the Portal, open now and blazing with blue light. "Jace," she whispered, and moved to go toward him. Ash stepped in front of her. "I wouldn't," he said. He spoke in that same eerily calm voice in which he had said to his father, No. "He's been under Sebastian's control too long. He isn't what you think. He can't go back." She swung her sword up to point at Ash, close to nausea from the pain of her broken collarbone. Ash looked back at her, unflinching. "Why did you do that?" she demanded. "Betray Sebastian. Why?" "He was going to kill me," Ash said. He had a low voice, slightly husky, not the boy's voice he'd had in the Unseelie Court. "Besides, I liked your speech about Clary. It was interesting." Julian had turned away from Jace, who still knelt on the ground, staring down at the sword in his hands. Julian moved toward Emma as Livvy stared; she was slashed with wounds but still standing, and her rebels were approaching to circle around her. They wore expressions of shock and disbelief. A scream cut through the eerie silence of dead Endarkened and stunned warriors. A scream that Emma knew well. "Don't hurt him!" Annabel cried. She raced toward Ash, her hands outstretched. She wore her red gown, and her feet were bare as she ran. She seized hold of Ash's arm and began to drag him toward the Portal. Emma broke from her frozen state and began to run toward Julian as he moved to stand in front of the Portal. His sword flashed out as he raised it, just as Ash pulled hard against Annabel's grip. He was shouting at her that he didn't want to go, not without Jace. Annabel was strong; Emma knew how strong. But it appeared that Ash was stronger. He yanked free of her grip and began to run toward Jace. The light of the Portal had begun to dim. Was Annabel closing it, or was it dying on its own, naturally? Either way, Emma's heart kicked into high gear, slamming against her rib cage. She leaped over the body of an Endarkened and came down on the other side just as Annabel whirled on her. "Stay back!" Annabel shouted. "Neither of you can enter the Portal! Not without Ash!" Ash turned to look at the sound of his name; he was kneeling beside Jace, his hand on Jace's shoulder. Ash's face was twisted with what looked like grief. Annabel began to advance on Emma. Her face was frighteningly blank, the way it had been that day on the dais. The day she'd thrust the Mortal Sword into Livvy's heart and stopped it forever. Behind Annabel, Julian lifted his free hand. Emma knew immediately what he meant, what he wanted. She raised the Mortal Sword, gritting her teeth in pain, and threw it. It flashed past Annabel; Julian cast his own sword aside and caught it out of the air. He swung its still-bloodied blade in a curving arc, slicing through Annabel's spine. Annabel gave a terrible, inhuman shriek, like the shriek of a fisher cat. She spun like a malfunctioning top, and Julian rammed the Mortal Sword into her chest, just as she'd done to Livvy. He pulled the blade free, her blood dripping over his clenched fist, spattering his skin. He stood like a statue, gripping the Mortal Sword as Annabel collapsed to the ground like a marionette with its strings cut. She lay on her back, her face upturned, a pool of scarlet beginning to spread around her, mixing with the torn frills of her red dress. Her hands, knotted into claws at her sides, relaxed in death; her bare feet were dark scarlet, as if she were wearing slippers made of blood. Julian looked down at her body. Her eyes--still Blackthorn blue--were already beginning to film over. "Queen of Air and Darkness," he said in a low voice. "I will never be like Malcolm." Emma took a long, ragged breath as Julian handed her back the Mortal Sword. Then he tore the bloodied rag from his wrist and cast it down beside Annabel's body. Her blood began to soak into it, mixing with Livvy's. Before Emma could speak, she heard Ash cry out. Whether it was a cry of pain or triumph, she couldn't tell. He was still kneeling beside Jace. Julian held out his hand. "Ash!" he cried. "Come with us! I swear we'll take care of you!" Ash looked at him for a long moment with steady, unreadable green eyes. Then he shook his head. His wings beat darkly against the air; catching hold of Jace, he sailed upward, both of them vanishing into the cloudy sky. Julian lowered his hand, his face troubled, but Livvy was already running toward him, her face white with distress. "Jules! Emma! The Portal!" Emma swung around; the Portal had dimmed even further, its light wavering. Livvy reached Julian and he slung an arm around her, hugging her tight against his side. "We have to go," he said. "The Portal's fading--it'll only hang on for a few minutes now Annabel's gone." Livvy pressed her face into Julian's shoulder and, for a moment, hugged him incredibly tightly. When she let go, her face was shining with tears. "Go," she whispered. "Come with us," Julian said. "No, Julian. You know I can't," Livvy said. "My people finally have a chance. You gave us a chance. I'm grateful, but I can't have Cameron die for the safety of a world that I'm willing to run away from." Emma was afraid Julian would protest. He didn't. Maybe he'd been more prepared for this than she'd thought. He reached into his jacket and pulled out the Cup; it gleamed dull gold in the Portal light--the blue light of a sky with a real sun. "Take this." He pressed it into Livvy's hands. "With it, perhaps the Nephilim can be reborn here." Livvy cradled it in her fingers. "I may never be able to use this." "But you might," Emma said. "Take it." "And let me give you one last thing," Julian said. He bent and whispered in Livvy's ear. Her eyes went wide. "Go!" someone shouted; it was Raphael, who along with Diana, Bat, and Maia, was watching them. "You stupid humans, go before it is too late!" Julian and Livvy looked at each other one last time. When he turned away, Emma thought she could hear the sound of his heart tearing itself apart: One piece would always be here, in Thule, with Livvy. "Go!" Raphael shouted again; the Portal had narrowed to a gap smaller than a doorway. "And tell Magnus and Alec to rename their child!" Emma slid her hand into Julian's. Her other hand gripped the Mortal Sword. Julian looked down at her; in the sunlight of the Portal, his eyes were sea-blue. "See you on the other side," he whispered, and together they stepped through. <|title|>Chapter 22: The Worst and The Best <|startofchapter|>The Silent City was empty, full of the echoes of past dreams and whispers. The torches in the walls were lit, casting a golden glow over the spires of bone and mausoleums of rhodolite and white agate. Emma walked unhurried among the bones of the dead. She knew she should be anxious, perhaps hurrying, but she couldn't remember why, or what she was seeking. She knew she was wearing gear--battle gear, black and silver as a starry sky. Her boots echoing on the marble were the only sound in the City. She passed through a familiar room with a high, domed ceiling. Marble of all colors flowed together in patterns too intricate for the eye to follow. On the floor were two interlocking circles: This was where she and Julian had become parabatai. Beyond that room was the Star Chamber. The parabolic stars glimmered on the floor; the Mortal Sword hung point-down behind the basalt Judges' Bar, as if waiting for her. She took hold of it and found it featherlight. Crossing the room, she stepped into the square of the Speaking Stars. "Emma! Emma, it's me, Cristina." A cool hand was holding hers. She was tossing and turning; there was a searing pain at her throat. "Cristina," she whispered, her lips dry and cracked. "Hide the Sword. Please, please, hide it." There was a click. The floor beneath her opened along an invisible seam, two slabs of marble rolling smoothly apart. Revealed beneath them was a square compartment containing a stone tablet, on which was painted a crude parabatai rune. It was neither fine work nor beautiful, but it radiated power. Gripping the hilt of Maellartach, Emma brought it down, point first. The blade split the tablet apart and Emma staggered back in a cloud of dust and power. It is severed, she thought. The bond is severed. She felt no joy and no relief. Only fear as a whispering voice called her name: "Emma, Emma, how could you?" She turned to see Jem in his Silent Brother robes. A red stain was spreading slowly across his chest. She cried out as he fell -- "Emma, talk to me. You're going to be all right. Julian's going to be all right." Cristina sounded on the verge of tears. Emma knew she was in a bed, but it felt as if huge manacles had chained down her arms and legs. They were so heavy. Voices rose and fell around her: She recognized Mark's voice, and Helen's. "What happened to them?" Helen said. "They appeared just a few moments after you, but in totally different clothing. I don't understand." "Neither do I." Mark sounded wretched. Emma felt his hand brush her hair. "Emma, where have you been?" Emma stood before the silver mirror. She saw herself reflected back: pale hair, runed skin, all familiar, but her eyes were the dull red of the moon in Thule. Then she was falling, falling through the water. She saw the great monsters of the deep, shark-finned and serpentine-toothed, and then she saw Ash rise up through the water with his black wings gleaming silver and gold, and the monsters fell back from him in fear.... She woke with a hoarse cry, struggling against the seaweed that dragged her down, into deeper water--she realized she was struggling against sheets that were wound around her, and sagged back, gasping for breath. Hands were on her shoulders, then brushing back her hair; a soft voice was saying her name. "Emma," Cristina said. "Emma, it's all right. You've been dreaming." Emma opened her eyes. She was in her room in the Institute; blue paint, familiar mural on the wall of swallows in flight over castle towers, sunlight spilling through an open window. She could hear the sounds of the sea, of music playing in another room. "Cristina," Emma whispered. "I'm so glad it's you." Cristina made a hiccuping noise and threw her arms around Emma, hugging her tightly. "I'm so sorry," she said. "I'm so sorry we left Faerie without you, it's all I've been able to think about. I should never, never have left you--" As if from a great distance, Emma remembered the Unseelie Court. How the flames had cut them off from Cristina and the others, how she had nodded at her, giving her permission to save herself, the others. "Tina!" she exclaimed, patting her friend on the back. Her voice was hoarse, her throat oddly sore. "It's all right, I told you to go." Cristina sat back, her nose and eyes pink. "But where did you go? And why did you keep calling me the Rose of Mexico?" She wrinkled up her forehead in puzzlement. Emma made a noise that was half laugh, half gasp. "I have a lot to tell you," she said. "But first, I just have to know"--she caught Cristina's hand--"is everyone alive? Julian, all the others--" "Of course!" Cristina looked horrified. "Everyone's alive. Everyone." Emma squeezed Cristina's hand and let go. "What has the blight done to Magnus? Are we too late?" "It's odd that you should ask. Alec and Magnus arrived here yesterday." Cristina hesitated. "Magnus isn't doing well at all. He's very ill. We've been in contact with the Spiral Labyrinth--" "But they still think it's the ley lines." Emma started to swing her legs out of the bed. A wave of dizziness swamped her, and she braced herself against the pillows, breathing hard. "No, no, they don't. I realized it was the blight in Faerie. Emma, don't try to get up--" "What about Diana?" Emma demanded. "She was in Idris--" "She isn't anymore." Cristina looked grim. "That's another long story. But she's fine." "Emma!" The door burst open and Helen flew in, all disarrayed fair hair and anxious eyes. She flew to hug Emma, and Emma felt another wave of dizziness go over her: She thought of Thule, and how Helen had been separated from her family forever there. She would never forgive the Clave for exiling Helen to Wrangel Island, but at least she was back. At least this was a world where it was possible to be lost and then return. Helen hugged Emma until she waved her arms to indicate that she needed oxygen. Cristina fussed as Emma once against tried to get up and succeeded in propping herself against the pillows just as Aline, Dru, Tavvy, Jace, and Clary crowded in. "Emma!" Tavvy exclaimed, having no time for sickroom protocols, and jumped up onto the bed. Emma hugged him gently and ruffled his hair while the others gathered around; she heard Jace ask Cristina if Emma had been talking and whether she seemed coherent. "You shaved," she said, pointing at him. "It's a big improvement." There was a scrum of hugging and exclaiming; Clary came last and smiled down at Emma the same way she'd once smiled at her outside the Council Hall, the first time they'd ever met, when Clary had helped dispel the fears of a terrified child. "I knew you'd be all right," Clary said, her voice pitched so low only Emma could hear her. There was a knock on the door, which barely opened into the crowded room. Emma felt a flare like a match tip against her left arm, and realized with a shock of joy what it was, just as Julian stepped into the room, leaning on Mark's shoulder. Her parabatai rune. It felt like forever since it had sparked with life. Her eyes met Julian's and for a moment she was unaware of anything else: just that Julian was there, that he was all right, that there were bandages on his left arm and visible under his T-shirt but it didn't matter, he was alive. "He just woke up about an hour ago," Mark said as the others beamed at Julian. "He's been asking for you, Emma." Aline clapped her hands together. "Okay, now that we've gotten the hugging and stuff out of the way, where were you two?" She indicated Emma and Julian with an accusatory wave of her hand. "Do you know how terrified we were when Mark and Cristina and the others suddenly appeared and you weren't with them, and then you suddenly popped out of nowhere all beaten up and wearing strange clothes?" She gestured to Emma's night table, where her Thule clothes lay neatly folded. "I...," Emma began, and broke off as Aline marched out of the room. "Is she mad?" "Worried," Helen said diplomatically. "We all were. Emma, you had a broken collarbone, and Julian had broken ribs. They should be better now-- it's been three days." The exhaustion and worry of those three days told in the dark circles beneath her eyes. "And you were incoherent," said Jace. "Julian was out cold at first, but you kept shouting about demons and black skies and a dead sun. Like you'd been to Edom." Jace's eyes were narrowed. He wasn't far off, Emma thought; Jace could be silly when he felt like it, but he was smart. Aline stomped back into the room. She had quite a stomp for a woman who was built along delicate lines. "Also, what is this?" she demanded, holding up the Mortal Sword. Tavvy made a delighted noise. "I know that one! It's the Mortal Sword!" "No, the Mortal Sword is broken," Dru said. "That's got to be something else." She frowned. "What is it, Jules?" "It's the Mortal Sword," Julian said. "But we have to keep its existence here an absolute secret." Another hubbub broke out. Someone pounded on the door; it turned out Kit and Ty were in the corridor. They'd been downstairs with Kieran, Alec, and Magnus and had just found out Emma was awake. Cristina scolded everyone in Spanish for making noise, and Jace wanted to hold the Mortal Sword, and Julian indicated to Mark that he could stand on his own, and Aline stuck her head into the hallway to say something to Ty and Kit, and Emma looked at Julian, who was looking directly back at her. "All right, stop," Emma said, throwing her hands up. "Give me and Julian a second alone to talk. Then we'll tell you everything." She frowned. "But not in my bedroom. It's crowded and giving me privacy issues." "The library," Clary said. "I'll help set it up, and get you some food. You must be starving, even though we gave you a few of these." She tapped the Nourishment rune on Emma's arm. "Okay, come on, clear the room " "Give Ty a hug for me," Emma said to Tavvy as he hopped down. He looked dubious about the transference of hugs, but filed out with everyone else. And then the room was quiet and empty except for Emma and Julian. She slid out of bed, and this time she managed to stand without dizziness. She felt the slight twinge of her rune and thought: It's because Julian's here, I'm drawing strength from him. "Do you feel it?" she said, touching her left bicep. "The parabatai rune?" "I don't feel much," he said, and Emma's heart sank. She'd known it, really, from the moment he'd walked in, but she hadn't realized how much hope she still had hanging on the idea that somehow, the spell might have been broken. "Turn around," she said dully. "I have to get dressed." Julian raised his eyebrows. "I have seen it all before, you know." "Which does not entitle you to further viewing privileges," said Emma. "Turn. Around." Julian turned around. Emma fished into her closet for the least Thule- esque clothes she had and eventually fished out a flowered dress and vintage sandals. She changed, watching Julian as he watched the wall. "So just to be clear, the spell is back," she said once the dress was on. Quietly, she picked up the vest she'd worn in Thule, took Livvy's letter, and transferred it to the pocket of her dress. "Yes," he said, and she felt the word like a needle in her heart. "I had some dreams, dreams with emotions in them, but by the time I woke up . . . they faded. I know that I felt, even how I felt, but I can't feel it. It's like knowing I had a wound, but I can't remember what the pain was like." Emma kicked her feet into her sandals and twisted her hair up into a knot. She suspected she probably looked pallid and horrible, but did it matter? Julian was the only person she wanted to impress, and he didn't care. "Turn around," she said, and he turned. He looked grimmer than she would have thought, as if the spell being unbroken was bitter to him, too. "So what are you going to do?" "Come here," he said, and she came close to him with a little reluctance as he began to unwind the bandages on his arm. It was hard not to remember the way he'd spoken to her in Thule, the way he'd placed each bit of himself, his hope and yearning and desire and fear, in her hands. I'm not myself without you, Emma. Once you dissolve dye in water, you can't take it back out. It's like that. I can't take you out of me. It means cutting out my heart, and I don't like myself without my heart. The bandages came free and he extended his forearm to her. She sucked in her breath. "Who did this?" she demanded. "I did," he said. "Before we left Thule." Across the skin of his inner arm, he had cut words: words that had healed now, into red-black scars. YOU ARE IN THE CAGE. "Do you know what this means?" he said. "Why I did this?" Her heart felt like it was breaking into a thousand pieces. "I do," she said. "Do you?" Someone knocked on the door; Julian jumped back and began hurriedly rewrapping his arm. "What's up?" Emma called. "Were almost ready." "I just wanted to tell you to come down," Mark said. "We are all eager to hear your story, and I've made my famous doughnut sandwiches." "I'm not sure 'Tavvy likes them' is exactly what most people mean when they say 'famous,'" Emma said. Julian, her Julian, would have laughed. This Julian just said, "We'd better go," and walked past her to the door. At first Cristina thought Kieran's hair had turned white from shock or annoyance. It took a few minutes for her to realize it was powdered sugar. They were in the kitchen, helping Mark as he put together plates of apples and cheese and "doughnut sandwiches"--truly horrible concoctions involving doughnuts cut in half and filled with peanut butter, honey, and jelly- Kieran liked the honey, though. He licked some off his fingers and started to peel an apple with a small, sharp knife. "Guacala." Cristina laughed. "Gross! Wash your hands after you lick them." "We never washed our hands in the Hunt," said Kieran, sucking honey from his finger in a way that made Cristina's stomach feel fluttery. "That's true. We didn't," Mark agreed, slicing a doughnut in half and sending up another cloud of powdered sugar. "That is because you lived like savages," said Cristina. "Go wash your hands!" She steered Kieran to the sink, whose taps still confused him, and went over to dust sugar off the back of Mark's shirt. He turned to smile at her, and her stomach flipped again. Feeling very odd, she left Mark and went back to cutting cheese into small cubes as Kieran and Mark squabbled fondly about whether or not it was disgusting to eat sugar directly out of the box. There was something about being with both of them that was sweetly, calmly domestic in a way she hadn't felt since she'd left home. Which was odd, because there was nothing ordinary at all about either Mark or Kieran and nothing normal about how she felt about the two of them. She had, in fact, hardly seen either of them since they'd returned from Faerie. She'd spent her time in Emma's room, worried that Emma would wake up and she wouldn't be there. She'd slept on a mattress next to the bed, though she hadn't slept all that much; Emma had tossed restlessly night and day and called out over and over: for Livvy, for Dru and Ty and Mark, for her parents, and most often, for Julian. That was another reason Cristina wanted to be in the room with Emma, one she had not admitted to anyone. In her incoherent state, Emma was calling out to Julian that she loved him, for him to come and hold her. Any of those statements might be written off as the love felt between parabatai --but then again, they might not be. As a keeper of Emma and Julian's secret, Cristina felt she owed it to them both to protect Emma's unconscious confidences. She knew Mark felt the same: He'd been with Julian, though he reported that Julian cried out much less. It was one of the few things Mark had said to her since they'd gotten back from Faerie. She'd been avoiding both Mark and Kieran deliberately--Diego and Jaime were in prison, the Consul was under house arrest, the Dearborns were still in power, and Emma and Julian were unconscious; she was far too frayed to deal with her mess of a love life at the moment. She hadn't realized till this moment quite how much she'd missed them. "Hello!" It was Tavvy, bouncing into the kitchen. He'd been subdued the last few days while Julian had been sick, but he'd recovered with the admirable elasticity of children. "I'm supposed to carry sandwiches," he added with the air of someone who has been given a task of great importance. Mark gave him a plate of the doughnuts, and another to Kieran, who shepherded Tavvy out of the room in the manner of one growing used to being surrounded by a large family. "I wish I'd had a camera," Cristina said after they left. "A photograph of a haughty prince of Faerie carrying a plate of terrible doughnut sandwiches would be quite a memento." "My sandwiches are not terrible." Mark leaned back against the counter with an easy grace. In blue jeans and a T-shirt, he looked entirely human--if you didn't note his sharply pointed ears. "You really care about him, don't you?" "About Kieran?" Cristina felt her pulse speed up: with nerves and with closeness to Mark. They had spoken only of surface things for days. The intimacy of discussing their actual feelings was making her heart race. "Yes. I --I mean, you know that, don't you?" She felt herself blush. "You saw us kiss." "I did," Mark said. "I did not know what it meant to you, nor to Kieran, either." He looked thoughtful. "It is easy to be carried away in Faerie. I wanted to reassure you I was not angry or jealous. I am truly not, Cristina." "All right," she said awkwardly. "Thank you." But what did it mean that he wasn't angry or jealous? If what had happened with her and Kieran in Faerie had happened among Shadowhunters, she would have considered it a declaration of interest. And would have worried that Mark was upset. But it hadn't been, had it? It might have meant nothing more to Kieran than a handshake. She trailed a hand along the smooth top of the counter. She could not help but remember a conversation she had had with Mark once, here in the Institute. It felt so long ago. It came back to her like a lucid dream: There was nothing rehearsed about the look Mark gave her then. "I meant it when I said you were beautiful. I want you, and Kieran would not mind --" "You want me?" "Yes," Mark said simply, and Cristina looked away, suddenly very aware of how close his body was to hers. Of the shape of his shoulders under his jacket. He was lovely as faeries were lovely, with a sort of unearthliness, as quicksilver as moonlight on water. He didn't seem quite touchable, but she had seen him kiss Kieran and knew better. "You do not want to be wanted?" In another time, the time before, Cristina would have blushed. "It is not the sort of compliment mortal women enjoy." "But why not?" said Mark. "Because it makes it sound like I am a thing you want to use. And when you say Kieran would not mind, you make it sound as if he would not mind because I do not matter." "That is very human," he said. "To be jealous of a body but not a heart." "You see, I do not want a body without a heart," she said. A body without a heart. She could have both Mark and Kieran now, in the way that Mark had suggested so long ago--she could kiss them, and be with them, and bid them good-bye when they left her, because they would. "Cristina," Mark said. "Are you all right? You seem--sad. I would have hoped to reassure you." He touched the side of her face lightly, his fingers tracing the shape of her cheekbone. I don't want to talk about this, Cristina thought. They had spent three days speaking of nothing important save Emma and Julian. Those three days and the peace of them felt delicate, as if too much discussion of reality and its harshness might shatter everything. "We don't have time to talk now," she said. "Perhaps later--" "Then let me say one thing." Mark spoke quietly. "I have been long torn between two worlds. I thought I was a Shadowhunter, told myself I was only that. But I have realized my ties to Faerie are stronger than I thought. I cannot leave half my blood, half my heart, in either world. I dream it might be possible to have both, but I know it cannot be." Cristina turned away so as not to see the look on his face. Mark would choose Faerie, she knew. Mark would choose Kieran. They had their history together, a great love in the past. They were both faeries, and though she had studied Faerie and yearned toward it with ah her heart, it was not the same. They would be together because they belonged together, because they were beautiful together, and there would be pain for her when she lost them both. But that was the way for mortals who loved the folk of Faerie. They always paid a heavy price. It was, Emma discovered, not actually possible to hate a doughnut sandwich. Even if her arteries might pay for it someday down the line. She ate three. Mark had placed them with care on platters, which sat in the middle of one of the big library tables--something about the desire to please in the gesture touched Emma's heart. Everyone else was crowded around the long table, including Kieran, who sat quietly, his face blank, beside Mark. He wore a simple black shirt and linen pants; he looked nothing like he had the last time Emma had seen him, in the Unseelie Court, covered in blood and dirt, his face twisted with rage. Magnus looked different than he had the last time she'd seen him, too. And not in a good way. He had come down to the library leaning heavily on Alec, his face gray and tight, sharply drawn with pain. He lay on a long couch by the table, a blanket around his shoulders. Despite the blanket and the warm weather, he shivered often. Every time he did, Alec would bend down over him and smooth his hair back or draw the blankets up more tightly over his shoulders. And every time Alec did, Jace--sitting across the table, beside Clary-- would tense, his hands curling into useless fists. Because that was what being parabatai meant, Emma knew. Feeling someone else's pain as if it was your own. Magnus kept his eyes closed while Emma told the story of Thule, Julian interjecting quietly when she forgot a detail or glossed over something he thought was necessary. He didn't push her, though, at the harder parts-- when she had to talk about how Alec and Magnus had died or about Isabelle's last stand with the Mortal Sword. About Clary's death at Lilith's hands. And about Jace. His eyes widened incredulously when Emma spoke of the Jace who lived in Thule, who had been bound to Sebastian for so long he would never be free. Emma saw Clary reach over to grip his hand tightly, her eyes shining with tears the way they hadn't when her own death had been described. But the worst, of course, was describing Livvy. Because while the other stories were horrors, knowing about Livvy in Thule reminded them that there was a horror story in this world that they could neither change nor reverse. Dru, who had insisted on sitting at the table with everyone else, said nothing when they described Livvy, but tears streaked silently down her cheeks. Mark went ashen. And Ty--who looked thinner than Emma remembered him, bitten down like a ragged fingernail--made no sound either. Kit, who was sitting beside him, tentatively put his hand over Ty's where it lay on the table; Ty didn't react, though he didn't draw away from Kit either. Emma went on, because she had no choice but to go on. Her throat was aching badly by the time she finished; gray-faced, Cristina pushed a glass of water toward her and she took it gratefully. A silence had fallen. No one seemed to know what to say. The only sound was the faint tinny chime of the music coming from Tavvy's headphones as he played with a train set in the corner--they were Ty's headphones, really, but he'd put them gently on Tavvy's head before Emma had started talking. "Poor Ash," Clary said. She was very pale. "He was--my nephew. I mean, my brother was a monster, but..." "Ash saved me," said Emma. "He saved my life. And he said it was because he liked something I said about you. But he stayed because he wanted to stay in Thule. We offered to bring him back. He didn't want to come." Clary smiled tightly, her eyes sparkling with tears. "Thankyou." "Okay, let's talk about the important part." Magnus turned to Alec with a furious look on his face. "You killed yourself? Why would you do that?" Alec looked startled. "That wasn't me," he pointed out. "It's an alternate universe, Magnus!" Magnus grabbed Alec by the front of his shirt. "If I die, you are not allowed to do anything like that! Who would take care of our kids? How could you do that to them?" "We never had kids in that world!" Alec protested. "Where are Rafe and Max?" Emma whispered to Cristina. "Simon and Isabelle are looking after them in New York. Alec checks in every day to see if Max is getting sick, but he seems fine so far," Cristina whispered back. "You are not allowed to hurt yourself, under any circumstances," Magnus said, his voice gruff. "Do you understand that, Alexander?" "I would never," Alec said softly, stroking Magnus's cheek. Magnus clasped Alec's hand against his face. "Never." They all looked away, letting Magnus and Alec have their moment in privacy. "I see why you clawed at me when I tried to lift you up," Jace said to Emma. His golden eyes were dark with a regret she could only begin to understand. "When you first came through the Portal. You were lying on the ground, and I --you were bleeding, and I thought I should carry you to the infirmary, but you clawed at me and screamed like I was a monster." "I don't remember it," Emma said honestly. "Jace, I know you're a completely different person than him, even if he did look like you. You can't feel bad or responsible for what someone who wasn't you did." She turned to look at the rest of the table. "The Thule versions of us aren't really us," she added. "If you think of them as copies of you, it'll drive you crazy." "That Livvy," said Ty. "She isn't mine. She isn't my Livvy." Kit gave him a quick, startled look. The other Blackthorns looked puzzled, but--though Julian raised his hand, then lowered it again, as if he meant to protest--no one spoke. Perhaps it ruas better for Ty to know and to understand that the Livvy in Thule wasn't the same Livvy he'd lost. Still, Emma thought of the letter, now in her pocket, and felt its weight as if it were made of iron rather than paper and ink. "It is terrible to believe that there can be such darkness so close to our own world," Mark said in a low voice. "That we evaded this future by such a thin margin." "It wasn't just chance, Mark," said Helen. "It was because we had Clary, because we had Jace, because we had good people working together to make things right." "We have good people now," Magnus said. "I have seen good people fall and fail in the past." "Magnus, you and Alec came here because you thought you might learn how to cure yourself," Helen began. "Because Catarina told us to," Magnus corrected. "Believe me, I don't just pop out to California for my health under normal circumstances." "There's nothing normal about any of this," said Emma. "Please," Helen said. "I know this was an awful story, and we're all upset, but we have to focus." "Wait a second," Magnus said. "Does this mean Max is turning into a tiny little demon? Do you know how many preschool waiting lists he's on? He'll never get into the Little Red School House now." Aline threw a lamp. No one was expecting it, and the result was quite spectacular: It shattered against one of the dormer windows, and pieces of ceramic flew everywhere. She stood up, dusting off her hands. "Everyone, BE QUIET AND LISTEN TO MY WIFE," she said. "Magnus, I know you make jokes when you're scared. I remember Rome." She gave him a surprisingly sweet smile. "But we have to focus." She turned to Helen. "Go on, honey. You're doing great." She sat back down and folded her hands. "She definitely has a temper," Emma whispered to Cristina. "I like it." "Remind me to tell you about the frittata," Cristina whispered back. "The important thing here," said Helen, "is the blight. We didn't realize how important it was--that the blighted areas will become doorways for demons. That our warlocks"--she looked at Magnus--"will turn into demons. We have to close up these doorways and destroy the blight, and we can't expect any help from Idris." "Why?" said Julian. "What's going on? What about Jia?" "She's under house arrest in Idris," Aline said quietly. "Horace is claiming he caught her meeting with faeries in Brocelind. She and Diana were arrested together, but Diana escaped." "We heard about some of this from Diana," said Clary. "After she escaped from Idris, Gwyn brought her here and she filled us in on what happened to her in Alicante." "Why isn't she still here?" asked Emma. "Why did she leave?" "Look at this." Mark pushed a piece of paper across the table; Julian and Emma leaned in to read it together. It was a message from the Clave. It said that Diana Wrayburn was missing, believed to be under the influence of faeries. All Institutes should be on the lookout for her, for her own good, and alert the Inquisitor as soon as she was spotted. "It's all nonsense," said Aline. "My father says they're afraid of Diana's influence and didn't want to just name her as a traitor. They're even lying about what happened to the Inquisitor. They're claiming he lost his arm in a battle with Downworlders when they were clearing them out of Idris." "His arm?" echoed Emma, bewildered. "Diana cut the Inquisitor's arm off," said Jace. Emma upset her glass of water. "She did what?" "He was threatening her," said Clary grimly. "If Gwyn hadn't been around to get her out of Alicante, I don't know what would have happened." "It was badass," said Jace. "Well, good for her," said Emma. "That definitely calls for a large tapestry one of these days." "Fifty bucks says the Inquisitor develops a high-tech robot arm that shoots laser beams," said Kit. Everyone looked at him. "It always happens in movies," he explained. "We're Shadowhunters," said Julian. "We're not high-tech." He sat back in his chair. Emma could see the bandages under his sleeve when he moved. YOU ARE IN THE CAGE. She shivered. "We wanted Diana to stay here with us, but she thought that would make us a target," said Helen. "She went to hide out with Gwyn, though she's meant to check back in a few days." Emma privately hoped Diana and Gwyn were having a fabulous romantic time in a treetop or something. Diana deserved it. "It's awful all over," said Alec. "The Downworlder registry is almost complete--with, of course, some notable exceptions." He indicated Helen and Aline with a nod. "Quite a few Downworlders have managed to escape the Registry, moi included," said Magnus. "Alec threatened to kill me if I even considered putting my name on some sinister list of the Cohort's undesirables." "There was no actual threatening," said Alec, in case anyone was wondering. "Well, all Downworlders have been removed from Idris, including the ones who were teachers at Shadowhunter Academy," Mark said. "Rumors are running wild among Downworlders of sneak attacks by Shadowhunters. It's like the bad old days before the Accords," Magnus said. "The Iron Sisters have cut off communication with the Cohort," said Aline. "The Silent Brothers haven't said anything yet, but there was a statement from the Iron Sisters that they didn't accept Horace's authority. Horace is furious and keeps hounding them, especially because they have the shards of the Mortal Sword." "There's more," said Cristina. "Diego, Divya, and Rayan have been arrested, along with many others." Her voice was strained. "They're throwing everyone in prison who disagrees with them," said Aline. In a small voice, Dru said, "Jaime went to try to save his brother, but he wound up in prison too. We heard about it from Patrick Penhallow." Emma looked at Cristina, who was biting her lip unhappily. "Since we have no help from the Clave, and perhaps active opposition, what do we do?" Julian said. "We do what Tessa told you to do in Thule," said Magnus. "I trust Tessa; I always have. Just as you trusted Livvy when you found her in Thule. They might not be exact copies of us, these alternate selves, but they are not so different, either." "So we pour some of the water of Lake Lyn on the blighted areas, and save some to cure the warlocks," said Helen. "The big problem being how we get to Lake Lyn past the Cohort guards who are all over Idris. And then how we get back out--" "I will do it," Magnus said, sitting up. The blanket fell loosely around him. "I will--" "No!" Alec said sharply. "You are not risking yourself, Magnus, not in your condition." Magnus opened his mouth to object. Clary leaned across the table, her eyes entreating. "Please, Magnus. You've helped us so many times. Let us help you." "How?" Magnus said gruffly. Jace rose to his feet. "We'll go to Idris." Clary stood up too; she only reached to Jace's bicep, but her determination was clear. "I can create Portals. We can't get into Alicante, but we don't need to--just into Idris. We'll go to Lake Lyn, then Brocelind, and get back as fast as we can. We'll go as many times as we need to so we can get enough water." "There are guards patrolling all over Idris," said Helen. "You'll need to be armed and prepared." "Then we'll start getting armed now." Jace winked at Magnus. "Prepare to be helped, warlock, whether you like it or not." "Not," Magnus grumbled, subsiding into his blanket, but he was smiling. And the look Alec gave Jace and Clary was more eloquent than any speech. "Wait." Aline held up a hand. She was shuffling through a pile of papers on the table. "I've got the schedules of the patrols here. They're sweeping different locations in Idris to make sure they're 'clear' of Downworlders." She spoke the words with distaste. "They're doing Lake Lyn today and tonight." She looked up. "You can't go now." "We can deal with some guards," Jace said. "No," said Magnus. "It's too dangerous. You could deal with ten guards, or twenty, but this is going to be fifty or a hundred--" "A hundred," said Helen, looking over Aline's shoulder. "At least." "I won't let you take the risk," Magnus said. "I'll wear myself out using my magic to drag you back." "Magnus." Clary sounded appalled. "What does the schedule say?" asked Julian. "When can they go?" "Tomorrow, dawn," said Aline. "They should have dispersed by then." She set the papers down. "I know it's not ideal, but it's what we need to do. We'll spend today setting up and getting you ready. Making sure everything goes without a hitch." There was a general hubbub as everyone offered to pitch in, claiming one responsibility or another: Emma and Cristina were going to talk to Catarina about the possible cure, Mark and Julian were going to check maps of Brocelind to find where the areas of blight were, Clary and Jace were going to gather up their gear and weapons, and Helen and Aline were going to try to find out exactly when the patrol would be moving from Lake Lyn to Brocelind Forest. Ty and Kit, meanwhile, would start putting together lists of local warlocks who might need lake water when it was retrieved. As everyone gathered up their things, Ty went over to the corner where Tavvy was playing and knelt down to hand him a small train. Amid the confusion, Emma slipped after him. He appeared to have offered the train as a trade for his headphones. "Ty," Emma said, crouching down. Tavvy was busy turning trains upside down. "I have to give you something." "What kind of thing?" He sounded puzzled. She hesitated and then drew the envelope from her pocket. "It's a letter," she said. "From the Livvy in the other dimension--in Thule. We told her about you and she wanted to write something for you to read. I haven't looked at it," she added. "It's just for you." Ty stood up. He was graceful as a hollow-boned bird and looked as light and fragile. "She's not my Livvy." "I know," Emma said. She couldn't stop looking at his hands--his knuckles were raw and red. Her Julian would have noticed that already and been moving heaven and earth to find out what happened. "And you don't have to read it. But it's yours, and I think you should have it." She paused. "After all, it did come from a pretty long way away." A look passed over his face that she couldn't quite decipher; he took it, though, and folded it up inside his jacket. "Thanks," he said, and went across the room to join Kit in the downworlders--warlocks section, where Kit was struggling with several heavy books. "Don't," she heard Cristina say, and looked around in surprise. She didn't see Cristina anywhere, but that had definitely been her voice. She glanced around; Tavvy was absorbed with his train and everyone else was hurrying to and fro. "Kieran. I know you are worried for Adaon, but you didn't speak a word through the whole meeting." Oh dear, Emma thought. She realized that Cristina's voice was coming from the other side of a bookcase, and that Cristina and Kieran had no idea she was there. If she tried to leave, though, they'd know immediately. "These are Shadowhunter politics," Kieran said. There was something in his voice, Emma thought. Something different. "It is not something I understand. It is not my fight." "It is your fight," Cristina replied. Emma had rarely heard her speak with such intensity. "You fight for what you love. We all do." She hesitated. "Your heart is hidden, but I know you love Mark. I know you love Faerie. Fight for that, Kieran." "Cristina--" Kieran began, but Cristina had already hurried away; she emerged from her side of the bookcase and saw Emma immediately. She looked surprised, then guilty, and hurried quickly from the room. Kieran started to follow but stopped halfway across the room and leaned his hands on the table, bowing his head. Emma started to edge out from behind the bookcase, hoping to creep to the door unnoticed. She should have known better than to try to sneak by a faerie, she realized ruefully; Kieran looked up at the first tap of her shoes on the polished wood floor. "Emma?" "Just going," she said. "Don't mind me." "But I wish to mind you," he said, coming out from behind the table. He was all graceful angles, pallor and darkness. Emma supposed she could see what drew Cristina to him. "I have had cause to understand how much pain I brought to you, when you were whipped by Iarlath," he said. "I never desired that outcome, yet I did cause it. I cannot change that, but I can offer my sincere regrets and swear myself to accomplish any task that you set me." Emma had not been expecting this. "Any task? Like, you would be willing to learn to hula dance?" "Is that a torture of your people?" said Kieran. "Then yes, I would submit to it, for your sake." Sadly Emma put aside the thought of Kieran in a grass skirt. "You fought on our side in the Unseelie Court," she said. "You brought Mark and Cristina back safely with you, and they mean everything to me. You've proven yourself a true friend, Kieran. You have my forgiveness and you don't need to do anything else to earn it." He actually blushed, the touch of color warming his pale cheeks. "That is not what a faerie would say." "It's what I say," Emma said cheerfully. Kieran strode toward the door, where he paused and turned to her. "I have known how Cristina loves you, and I understand why. If you had been born a faerie, you would be a great knight of the Court. You are one of the bravest people I have ever known." Emma stammered a thank-you, but Kieran was already gone, like a shadow melting into the forest. She stared after him, realizing what it was she'd heard earlier in the way he said Cristina's name, as if it were a torment that he adored: She had never heard him speak any name but Mark's that way before. "Is there anything you want to talk to me about?" Magnus asked as Julian prepared to leave the library. He'd thought Magnus was asleep--he was leaning back on his couch, his eyes closed. There were deep shadows beneath them, the kind that came from multiple sleepless nights. "No." Julian tensed all over. He thought of the words cut onto the skin of his arm. He knew if he showed them to Magnus, the warlock would want to take the spell off him immediately, and Magnus was too weak for that. The effort might kill him. He also knew his reaction to the thought of Magnus dying was off-kilter and wrong. It was dulled down, flattened. He didn't want Magnus to die, but he knew he should feel more than not wanting, just as he should have felt more than flat relief at being reunited with his siblings. And he knew he should feel more when he saw Emma. It was as if a white space of nothingness had been cut out all around her and when he stepped into it, everything went blank. It was difficult to even speak. It was worse than it had been before, he thought. Somehow, his emotions were even more damped down than they had been before Thule. He felt despair, but it was dull and distant too. It made him want to grip the blade of a knife just to feel anything at all. "I suppose you wouldn't," Magnus said. "Given that you probably don't feel much." His cat eyes glittered. "I shouldn't have put that spell on you. I regret it." "Don't," Julian said, and he wasn't sure if he meant don't say that to me or don't regret it. His emotions were too distant for him to reach. He did know he wanted to stop talking to Magnus now, and he went out into the corridor, tense and breathless. "Jules!" He turned around and saw Ty, coming toward him along the hallway. The distant part of himself said Ty looked--different. His mind scrambled for the words "bruised! Hurt! Fragile!" and couldn't hold them. "Can I talk to you?" Askew, he thought. He looks atypical for Ty. He stopped trying to find words and followed Ty into one of the vacant bedrooms along the hall, where Ty closed the door behind them, turned around, and threw his arms around Julian without a word of warning. It was awful. Not because being hugged by Ty was awful. It was nice, as much as Julian could sense that it was nice: His brain said this is your blood, your family, and his arms went up automatically to hug Ty back. His brother was fragile in his arms, all soft hair and sharp bones, as if he were made out of seashells and dandelion fluff and strung together with fine silk thread. "I'm glad you're back," Ty said in a muffled voice. He'd pressed his head against Julian's shoulder, and his headphones had tilted sideways. Ty reached up automatically to right them. "I was afraid we'd never all be back together again." "But we are back together," Julian said. Ty leaned back a little, his hands gripping the front of Julian's jacket. "I want you to know I'm sorry," he said, in the rushed tones of someone who had practiced a speech for a long time. "At Livvy's funeral I climbed the pyre and you cut up your hands coming after me, and I thought maybe you left because you didn't want to deal with me." Something in Julian's head was screaming. Screaming that he loved his little brother more than he loved almost anything else on earth. Screaming that Ty rarely reached out like this, rarely initiated physical contact with Julian like this. A Julian who felt very far away was scrambling desperately, wanting to react correctly, wanting to give Ty what he needed so he could recover from Livvy's death and not be wrecked or lost. But it was like pounding on soundproofed glass. The Julian he was now couldn't hear. The silence of his heart was almost as profound as the silence he felt around Emma. "That's not it," he said. "I mean, that wasn't it. We left because of the Inquisitor." Distant Julian was bruising his hands slamming them against the glass. This Julian struggled for words and said, "It's not your fault." "Okay," Ty said. "I have a plan. A plan to fix everything." "Good," Julian said, and Ty looked surprised, but he didn't see it. He was scrambling to hold on, to try to find the right words, the feeling words to say to Ty, who had thought Julian had gone away because he was angry. "I'm sure you have a great plan. I trust you." He let go of Ty and turned toward the door. Better to be done than to risk saying the wrong thing. He would be all right as soon as the spell was off him. He could talk to Ty then. "Jules ...?" Ty said. He stood uncertainly by the arm of the sofa, fiddling with the cord of his headphones. "Do you want to know...?" "It's great that you're doing better, Ty," Julian said, not looking at Ty's face, his eloquently moving hands. It was only a few seconds, but by the time Julian made it out into the hallway he was breathing as hard as if he had escaped from a monster. <|title|>Chapter 23: That Winds May Be <|startofchapter|>Diego was Starting to be seriously worried about Jaime. It was hard to tell how many days the brothers had been in the Gard's prisons. They could hear only murmurs from the other cells: The thick stone walls muffled noise deliberately to prevent communication among the prisoners. They hadn't seen Zara again either. The only people who came to their cell were the guards who brought occasional meals. Sometimes Diego would beg the guards--dressed in the dark blue and gold of Gard Watchmen--to bring him a stele or medicine for his brother, but they always ignored him. He thought bitterly that it was exactly Dearborn's kind of clever to make sure the Watchmen who worked in the Gard were suborned to the Cohort's cause. Jaime moved restlessly on the pile of clothes and straw Diego had managed to cobble together as a bed. He'd donated his own sweater and sat shivering in his light undershirt. Still, he wished there was more he could do. Jaime was flushed, his skin tight-looking and shiny with fever. "I swear I saw her last night," he murmured. "Who?" said Diego. He sat with his back to the cold stone wall, close enough to touch his brother if Jaime needed him. "Zara?" Jaime's eyes were closed. "The Consul. She was wearing her robes. She looked at me and she shook her head. Like she thought I shouldn't be in here." You shouldn't. You're barely seventeen. Diego had done what he could to clean Jaime up after Zara had dumped him in the cell. Most of his wounds were shallow cuts, and he had two broken fingers--but there was one deep, dangerous wound in his shoulder. Over the past days, it had puffed up and turned red. Diego felt impotently rageful--Shadowhunters didn't die of infections. They were healed by iratzes or they died in battle, in a blaze of glory. Not like this, of fever, on a bed of rags and straw. Jaime smiled his crooked smile. "Don't feel sorry for me," he said. "You got the worse end of the deal. I got to run all over the world with the Eternidad. You had to romance Zara." "Jaime--" Jaime wheezed a cough. "I hope you pulled out one of your famous Diego Rosales moves, like winning her a big stuffed animal at a carnival." "Jaime, we must be serious." Jaime's wide dark eyes opened. "My dying wish is that we not be serious." Diego sat up angrily. "You are not dying! And we need to talk about Cristina." That got Jaime's attention. He struggled into a sitting position. "I have been thinking about Cristina. Zara doesn't know that she has the Eternidad-- the heirloom--and there is no reason for her ever to know." "We could try to figure out a way to warn Cristina. Tell her to abandon the heirloom somewhere--give it to someone else--it would give her a head start 55 "No." Jaime's eyes glimmered with fever. "Absolutely not. If we told Zara that Cristina had it, she'd torture Cristina to get the information just like she tortured me. Even if it had been thrown into the depths of the ocean, Zara wouldn't care--she would torture Cristina regardless. Zara can't know who has it." "What if we told Cristina to give it to Zara?" Diego said slowly. "We can't. Would you really want the Cohort to get their hands on it? We don't even understand everything it does." He reached out and took Diego's hand in his fever-hot one. His fingers felt as thin as they had when he was ten. "I will be okay," he said. "Please. Do not do any of these things for me." There was a clang as Zara appeared in the corridor, followed by the hunched figure of Anush Joshi. Cortana glimmered at her hip. The sight annoyed Diego: A blade like Cortana should be worn strapped to the back. Zara cared more about showing off the sword than she did about having such a special weapon. Anush carried a tray with two bowls of the usual glop on it. Kneeling, he slid it through the low gap in the bottom of the cell door. How can someone as wonderful as Divya have such a terrible cousin? Diego thought. "That's right, Anush," Zara said, prowling around her companion. "This is your punishment for deserting us in the forest--bringing slop to our worst, smelliest prisoners." She sneered at Diego. "Your brother doesn't look too good. Feverish, I think. Changed your mind yet?" "Nobody's changed their mind, Zara," Jaime said. Zara ignored him, looking at Diego. He could tell her what she wanted to know and trade Jaime's safety for the heirloom. The part of him that was a big brother, that had always protected Jaime, entreated him to do it. But strangely, in the moment, he remembered Kieran saying: You decide you will find a solution when the time comes, but when the worst happens, you find yourself unprepared. He could save Jaime in the moment, but he understood Zara well enough to know that that wouldn't mean Jaime and Diego would walk free. If the Cohort got their way, no one would ever walk free again. "Jaime is correct," Diego said. "No one has changed their mind." Zara rolled her eyes. "Fine. I'll see you later." She stalked away, Anush hurrying like a dispirited shadow in her wake. Emma sat beside Cristina on the office desk and drank in the view. The walls were glass, and through them she could see the ocean on one side and the mountains on the other. It felt as if the colors of the world had been restored to her, after the darkness of Thule. The sea seemed to sing blues and silvers, golds and greens. The desert, too, glowed with green bright and dull, rich terra-cotta sand and dirt, and deep purple shadows between the hills. Cristina took a small vial out of her pocket, made of thick blue glass. She unstoppered it and held it up to the light. Nothing happened. Emma looked at Cristina sideways. "It always takes a bit of time," Cristina said reassuringly. "I heard you in the Unseelie Court," Emma said. "You said that it wasn't the ley lines--that it was the blight. You figured it out, didn't you? What was causing the warlocks' sickness?" Cristina turned the vial around. "I suspected it, but I wasn't totally sure. I knew the blight in Brocelind was the same as the blight in Faerie, but when I realized the King was causing them both--that he wanted to poison our world --I realized it might be what was hurting the warlocks." "And Catarina knows?" "I told her when we got back. She said she'd look into it--" Smoke began to stream out of the vial, gray-white and opaque. It slowly shaped itself into a slightly distorted scene, wavering at the edges: They were looking at Tessa in a loose blue dress, a stone wall visible behind her. "Tessa?" Emma said. "Tessa!" Cristina said. "Is Catarina there as well?" Tessa tried to smile, but it wavered. "Last night Catarina fell into a sleep that we haven't been able to wake her from. She is--very ill." Cristina murmured in sympathy. Emma couldn't stop staring at Tessa. She looked so different--not older or younger, but more alive. She had not realized how much Thule Tessa's emotions had seemed deadened, as if she had long ago given up on having them. And this Tessa, Emma remembered, was pregnant. It wasn't visible yet, though Tessa did rest one hand with light protectiveness on her belly as she spoke. "Before Catarina fell into unconsciousness," Tessa said, "she told me that she thought Cristina was right about the blight. We have some samples of it here, and we've been studying them, but I fear we will be too late to save Magnus and Catarina--and so many others." Her eyes were bright with tears. Emma sprang to reassure her. "We think we might have the answer," she said, and scrambled to tell her story again, ending it on her meeting with Tessa in the cave. There seemed no reason to tell her now what had come after that. "I told you this?" Tessa seemed astonished. "A me that you encountered in another world?" "I know it sounds hard to believe. You were living in that cave, the big one up by Staircase Beach. You had Church with you." "That does sound right." Tessa seemed dazed. "What's the plan? I can help you, though there are few other warlocks well enough to join me--" "No, it's all right," Cristina said. "Jace and Clary are going." Tessa frowned. "That seems dangerous." "Aline found a time tomorrow when she thinks there won't be guards at Lake Lyn," said Cristina. "They're going to leave at dawn." "I suppose danger can never be avoided for Nephilim," said Tessa. She glanced at Cristina. "Could Emma and I speak for a moment alone, please?" Cristina blinked in surprise, then hopped down from the desk. "Of course." She bumped Emma's shoulder companionably as she headed out the door, and then Emma was alone in the office with a wavering but determined- looking Tessa. "Emma," Tessa said as soon as the door had shut behind Cristina. "I wanted to talk to you about Kit Herondale." Kit picked his way across the sand, his sneakers already wet where the incoming tide had caught him unawares. It was the first time he'd been down to the beach near the Institute without Ty. He felt almost guilty, though when he'd told Ty he was taking a walk, Ty had just nodded and said he'd see him later--Kit knew Ty wanted to talk to Julian, and he didn't want to interrupt anyway. There was something restful about this space, where the sea met the shore. Kit had learned long ago in the Shadow Market that there were "in-between" spaces in the world where it was easier to do certain kinds of magic: the middle of bridges, caves between the earth and the underworld, borderlands between the Seelie and Unseelie Courts. And the Shadow Market itself, between Downworld and the mundane. The tide line was a place like that, and because of that it felt like home. It reminded him of an old song he remembered someone singing to him. It must have been his father, though he always remembered it in a woman's voice. Tell him to buy me an acre of land, Parsley, sage, rosemary, and thyme; Between the salt water and the sea sand, Then he shall be a true love of mine. "That's a very, very old song," said a voice. Kit almost tumbled off the rock he'd been clambering over. The sky was deep blue, studded with white clouds, and standing above him on a heap of rocks was Shade. He wore a ragged navy suit with a stitched collar and cuffs, his green skin a stark contrast. "How do you know it?" Kit, who hadn't even realized he'd been humming the tune, shrugged. Shade had left off his usual hood. His green face was lined and good- humored, his hair curly and white. Small horns protruded from his temples, curling inward like seashells. Something about him struck Kit as a little odd. "Heard it in the Market." "What are you doing out and about without your shadow?" "Ty's not my shadow," said Kit crossly. "My apologies. I suppose you're his." Shade's eyes were solemn. "Have you come to tell me of the progress you've made in your foolish plan to raise his sister from the dead?" It wasn't why Kit had come down here, but he found himself telling Shade anyway, about Emma and Julian's return (though he made no mention of Thule) and the visits they'd made to the Shadow Market in the ensuing chaos, no one noticing they were gone. Julian, usually the most eagle-eyed older brother in the world, had been unconscious, and even today he'd seemed unfocused and groggy. "You've done better than I thought you would," Shade said grudgingly, looking out to sea. "Still. You've mostly gotten the easy stuff. There's still some objects that ought to trip you up." "You sound like you want us to fail," said Kit. "Of course I do!" Shade barked. "You shouldn't be messing around with necromancy! It never does anyone any good!" Kit backed up until his heels hit the surf. "Then why are you helping us?" "Look, there's a reason I'm here," said Shade. "Yeah, Hypatia passed on Tiberius's message to me, but I was headed to the cave anyway to keep an eye on you." "On me?" "Yes, you. Did you really think I was sticking around and helping you with your dumb necromancy just as a favor to Hypatia? We're not that close. Jem's the one who asked me to look out for you. The whole Carstairs owe the Herondales business. You know." It was weird to Kit, the idea that someone would be worried about protecting him just because of his last name. "Okay, but why are you helping us with the spell stuff?" "Because I said I would protect you, and I will. Your Ty is stubborn like the Blackthorns are all stubborn, and you're even stubborner. If I didn't help you two, some other warlock would, someone who didn't care if you both got hurt. And no, I haven't told anyone about it." "A lot of the other warlocks are sick," Kit said, realizing that this was what had seemed odd about Shade. He didn't look even a little bit ill. "And I might get sick too, eventually, but there will always be unscrupulous magic-users--what are you looking all cross-eyed about, boy?" "I guess I was thinking that you didn't know they found a cure for the warlock plague," said Kit. "Up at the Institute." It was the first time he had ever seen the warlock look genuinely surprised. "The Nephilim? Found a cure for the warlock illness?" Kit thought back on the way he'd been introduced to the idea of Shadowhunters. Not as people but as a vicious, holier-than-thou army of true believers. As if they were all like Horace Dearborn, and none were like Julian Blackthorn or Cristina Rosales. Or like Alec Lightwood, patiently holding a glass of water with a straw in it so his sick warlock boyfriend could drink. "Yes," he said. "Jace and Clary are going to retrieve it. I'll make sure you get some." Shade's face twisted, and he turned so Kit couldn't see his expression. "If you insist," he said gruffly. "But make sure Catarina Loss gets it first, and Magnus Bane. I've got some protections. I'll be fine for a good long while." "Magnus will be the first to get it, don't worry," said Kit. "He's at the Institute now." At that Shade spun back around. "Magnus is here?" He glanced up at the Institute where it gleamed like a legendary castle on a hill. "When he's well, tell him I'm in the Staircase Beach cave," he said. "Tell him Ragnor says hello." Ragnor Shade? Whatever force blessed people with good names had passed this poor guy over, Kit thought. He turned to head back up the path from the beach to the highway. The sand stretched out before him in a shimmering crescent, the tide line touched with silver. "Christopher," said Shade, and Kit paused, surprised at the sound of the name hardly anyone ever called him. "Your father," Shade began, and hesitated. "Your father wasn't a Herondale." Kit froze. In that moment, he had a sudden terror that it had all been a mistake: He wasn't a Shadowhunter, he didn't belong here, he would be taken away from all of it, from Ty, from everyone-- "Your mother," said Shade. "She was the Herondale. And an unusual one. You want to look into your mother." Relief punched through Kit like a blow. A few weeks ago he would have been delighted to have been told he wasn't Nephilim. Now it seemed like the worst fate he could imagine. "What was her name?" he said. "Shade! What was my mother's name?" But the warlock had jumped down from his rock and was walking away; the sound of the waves and tide swallowed up Kit's words, and Shade didn't turn around. Killer dolls, sinister woodsmen, eyeless ghouls, and graveyards full of mist. Dru would have listed those as her top favorite things about Asylum: Frozen Fear, but they didn't seem to interest Kieran much. He sprawled on the other side of the couch, gazing moodily into space even when people on screen started screaming. "This is my favorite part," said Dm, part of her mind on nibbling popcorn, the other part on whether or not Kieran was imagining himself in a different, peaceful place, maybe a beach. She didn't quite know how she'd inherited him after the meeting, just that they seemed to be the two people who hadn't been given a task to do. She'd escaped to the den, and a few moments later Kieran had appeared, flopped down on the sofa, and picked up a calendar of fluffy cats that someone--okay, her--had left around. "The bit where he steps on the voodoo doll and it explodes into blood and--" "This manner of marking the passage of time is a marvel," said Kieran. "When you are done with one kitten, then there is another kitten. By the next winter solstice, you will have seen twelve full kittens! One of them is in a glass!" "In December there are three kittens in a basket," Dru said. "But you should really watch the movie--" Kieran set the calendar down and gazed at the screen in some puzzlement. Then he sighed. "I just don't understand," he said. "I love them both, but it seems as if they cannot understand that. As if it is a torment or an insult." Dru hit the mute button and put down the remote. Finally, she thought, someone was talking to her like an adult. Admittedly, Kieran wasn't making a lot of sense, but still. "Shadowhunters are slow to love," she said, "but once we love, we love forever." It was something she remembered Helen having said to her once, maybe at her wedding. Kieran blinked and focused in on her, as if she'd said something clever. "Yes," he said. "Yes, that is true. I must trust in Mark's love. But Cristina--she has never said she loves me. And they both feel so far away just now." "Everyone feels far away just now," Dru said, thinking of how lonely the past few days had been. "But that's because they're worried. When they get worried, they pull inside themselves and sometimes they forget that you're there." She glanced down at her popcorn. "But it doesn't mean they don't Kieran leaned an elbow on his knee. "So what do I do, Drusilla?" "Um," Drusilla said. "Don't remain silent about what you want, or you may never get it." "You are very wise," Kieran said gravely. "Well," said Dru. "I actually saw that on a mug." "Mugs in this world are very wise." Dru wasn't entirely sure if Kieran was smiling or not, but by the way he sat back and crossed his arms, she sensed he was done with questions. She turned the TV volume back on. Emma pulled out the pushpins, carefully taking down the different-colored string, the old newspaper clippings, the photos curling at the edges. Each one representing a clue, or what she'd thought was a clue, to the secret of her parents' deaths: Who had killed them? Why had they died as they had? Now Emma knew the answers. She had asked Julian some time ago what she should do with all the evidence she'd collected, but he'd indicated that it was her decision. He'd always called it her Wall of Crazy, but in a lot of ways Emma thought of it as a wall of sanity, because creating it had kept her sane during a time where she'd felt helpless, overwhelmed with missing her parents and the sure support of their love. This was for you, Mom and Dad, she thought, dumping the last of the photos into shoe boxes. I know what happened to you now, and the person who killed you is dead. Maybe that makes a difference. Maybe not. I know it doesn't mean I miss you She wondered if she should say more. That revenge wasn't the panacea she had hoped for. That in fact she was a little frightened of it now: She knew how powerful it was, how it drove you. In Thule she had seen how the vengefulness of an abandoned, angry boy had burned down the world. But it hadn't made Sebastian happy. Revenge had only made Sebastian in Thule miserable, though he had conquered all he saw. There was a knock on the door. Emma shoved the boxes into her closet and went to answer it. To her surprise, it was Julian. She would have thought he would have been downstairs with the others. They'd had a big dinner in the library--delivery Thai food--and everyone was there, reminiscing and joking, Magnus dozing gently in Alec's arms while they both sprawled on the couch. It was almost as if Jace and Clary didn't have to leave on a dangerous mission at dawn, but that was the Shadowhunter way. There were always missions. There was always a dangerous dawn. Emma had wanted to be with them, but to be around Julian and other people when he was like this hurt. It hurt to look at him, and to conceal what she knew, and to wonder if others noticed, and if so, what they thought. Julian went to lean against the windowsill. The stars were just coming out, pinpointing the sky with scraps of light. "I think I messed things up with Ty," he said. "He wanted to talk to me, and I don't think I responded the right way." Emma brushed off her knees. She was wearing a pale green vintage nightgown that doubled as a dress. "What did he want to talk to you about?" A few loose curls of dark chocolate hair tumbled over Julian's forehead. He was still beautiful, Emma thought. It didn't make any difference what she knew; she ached at the sight of his painter's hands, strong and articulate, the soft darkness of his hair, the cupid's bow of his lip, the color of his eyes. The way he moved, his artist's grace, the things about him that whispered Julian to her. "I don't know," he said. "I didn't understand it. I would have understood it--I know I would have--if it weren't for the spell." "You went up on that pyre for him," she said. "I know--I told you, it was like a survival instinct, something I had no control over. But this isn't a matter of living and dying. It's emotions. And so my mind won't process them." Emotions can be matters of living and dying. Emma pointed to her closet. "Do you know why I took all that down?" Julian's brow furrowed. "You're done with it," he said. "You found out who killed your parents. You don't need that stuff anymore." "Yes and no, I guess." "If everything goes well, hopefully Magnus can take the spell off me tomorrow, or the day after," said Julian. "It depends how fast the cure works." "You could have talked to him about it already," Emma said, moving to lean against the sill beside Julian. It reminded her of past, better times, when they'd both sit on the sill and read, or Julian would draw, silent and content for hours at a time. "Why wait?" "I can't tell him all of it," Julian said. "I can't show him what I wrote on my arm--he'd want to take the spell off right away, and he's not strong enough. It could kill him." Emma turned to him in surprise. "That's empathy, Julian. That's you understanding what Magnus might feel. That's good, right?" "Maybe," he said. "There's something I've been doing when I'm not sure about how to handle something emotional. I try to imagine what you would do. What you would take into account. The conversation with Ty went too fast for me to do it, but it does help." "What I would do?" "It all breaks apart when I'm with you, of course," he said. "I can't think of what you would want me to do about you, or around you. I can't see you through your own eyes. I can't even see me through your eyes." He touched her bare arm lightly, where her parabatai rune was, tracing its edges. She could see his reflection in the window: another Julian with the same sharp profile, the same shadowed lashes. "You have a talent, Emma," he said. "A goodness that makes people happy. You assume people are not just capable of their best but that they want to be their best. You assume the same about me." Emma tried to breathe normally. The feeling of his fingers on her rune was making her body tremble. "You believe in me more than I believe in myself." His fingers traced a path down her bare arm, to her wrist, and back up. They were light and clever fingers; he touched her as if he were sketching her body, tracing the lines of her collarbones. Grazing the notch at the base of her throat. Gliding down to run along the neckline of her dress, just grazing the upper curve of her breasts. Emma shivered. She could lose herself in this sensation, she knew, could drown in it and forget, shield herself behind it. "If you're going to do that," she said, "you should kiss me." He folded her into his arms. His mouth on hers was warm and soft, a gentle kiss deepening into heat. Her hands moved over his body, the feel of it now familiar to her: the smooth muscles under his T-shirt, the roughness of scars, the delicacy of shoulder blades, the curving hollow of his spine. He murmured that she was beautiful, that he wanted her, that he always had. Her heart was beating its way out of her chest; every one of her cells was telling her that this was Julian, her Julian, that he felt, tasted, breathed the same and that she loved him. "This is perfect," he whispered against her mouth. "This is how we can be together and not hurt anyone." Her body screamed at her not to react, just to go along with it. But her mind betrayed her. "What do you mean, exactly?" He looked at her with his dark hair half in his face. She wanted to pull him to her and cover his mouth with more kisses; she wanted to close her eyes and forget anything was wrong. But she had never had to close her eyes with Julian before. "It's the emotions that matter, not the act," he said. "If I'm not in love with you, we can do this, be together physically, and it won't matter to the curse." If I'm not in love with you. She stepped away from him. It felt as if she were tearing her own skin open, as if she would look down and see blood seeping from the wounds where she had ripped herself away from him. "I can't," she said. "When you get your feelings back, we'll both regret that we did this when you didn't care." He looked puzzled. "I want you just as much as I ever did. That hasn't changed." She felt suddenly weary. "I believe you. You just told me you wanted me. That I was beautiful. But you didn't say you loved me. You've always said that before." There was a brief flicker in his eyes. "I'm not the same person. I can't say I feel things I don't understand." "Well, I want the same person," she said. "I want Julian Blackthorn. My Julian Blackthorn." He reached to touch her face. She stepped back, away from him--not because she disliked his touch, but because she liked it too much. Her body didn't know the difference between this Julian and the one she needed. "So who am I to you, then?" he asked, dropping his hand. "You are the person I have to protect until my Julian comes back to live inside you again," she said. "I don't want this. I want the Julian I love. You might be in the cage, Jules, but as long as you are like this, I am in the cage with you" Morning came as it always did, with sunshine and the annoying chirping of birds. Emma staggered out of her bedroom with her head pounding and discovered Cristina lurking in the hallway outside her door. She was holding a mug of coffee and wearing a pretty peach sweater with pearls around the collar. Emma had slept only about three hours after Julian had left her room, and they'd been a bad three hours at that. When she slammed the bedroom door behind her, Cristina jumped nervously into the air. "How much coffee have you had?" Emma asked. She pulled her hair up and secured it with a yellow daisy-printed cloth band. "This is my third. I feel like a hummingbird." Cristina waved the mug and fell into step beside Emma as they headed to the kitchen. "I need to talk to you, Emma." "Why?" Emma said warily. "My love life is a disaster," said Cristina. "Quelw." "Oh good," Emma said. "I was afraid it was going to be something about politics." Cristina looked tragic. "I kissed Kieran." "What? Where?" Emma demanded, almost falling down the steps. "In Faerie," Cristina wailed. "Actually, I meant, like, on the cheek or what?" "No," Cristina said. "A real kiss. With mouths." "How was it?" Emma was fascinated. She couldn't picture kissing Kieran. He always seemed so cold and so removed. He was certainly beautiful, but the way a statue was beautiful, not a person. Cristina blushed all over her face and neck. "It was lovely," she said in a small voice. "Gentle and as if he cared very much for me." That was even stranger. However, Emma felt, the point was to strive to be supportive of Cristina. She would rather Cristina was with Mark, of course, but Mark had been mucking about rather, and there was that binding spell. . . . "Well," said Emma. "What happens in Faerie stays in Faerie, I guess?" "If you mean I shouldn't tell Mark, he knows," said Cristina. "And if you are going to ask if I want to be with Mark alone, I cannot answer that, either. I do not know what I want." "What about how Mark and Kieran feel about each other?" said Emma. "Is it still romantic?" "I think they love each other in a way I cannot touch," said Cristina, and there was a sadness in her voice that made Emma want to stop dead in the middle of the hallway and put her arms around her friend. But they'd already reached the kitchen. It was crowded with people--Emma could smell coffee but not food cooking. The table was bare, the kitchen range cold. Julian and Helen, along with Mark and Kieran, were crowded around the table, where Clary and Jace sat, all of them looking with disbelief down at a piece of official-looking paper. Emma stopped dead, Cristina wide-eyed beside her. "We thought--did you already go to Idris and come back? I thought you had to leave at dawn?" Emma said. Jace glanced up. "We never left," he said. Clary was still staring at the paper she held, her face white and stunned. "Was a there a problem?" Emma asked anxiously. "You might say that." Jace's tone was light, but his golden eyes were stormy. He tapped the paper. "It's a message from the Clave. According to this, Clary and I are dead." Zara always chose the same chair in the Inquisitor's office. Manuel suspected it was because she liked to sit beneath the portrait of herself, so that people would be forced to gaze at two Zaras, and not just one. "Reports have been coming in all day," said Zara, twirling one of her braids. "Institutes are responding with outrage to the news of Jace and Clary's death at Faerie hands." "As we expected," said Horace, shifting in his chair with a grunt of pain. It annoyed Manuel that Horace was still complaining about his arm, a mass of white bandages below the stump of his elbow. Surely the iratzes would have healed the cut, and Horace had only himself to blame for letting the Wrayburn bitch get the better of him. Manuel detested Horace. But then, Manuel detested true believers in general. He couldn't have given less of a damn whether there were Downworlders in Alicante or faeries in Brocelind Forest or werewolves in his bathtub. Prejudice against Downworlders struck him as boring and unnecessary. The only thing it was useful for was making people afraid. When people were afraid, they would do anything you wanted if they thought it would make them safe again. When Horace spoke of reclaiming the past glory of the Nephilim, and the crowds cheered, Manuel knew what they were truly cheering for, and it was not glory. It was a cessation of fear. The fear they had felt since the Dark War had made them understand that they were not invincible. Once, they believed, they had been invincible. They had stood with their boots on the necks of Downworlders and demons, and they had straddled the world. Now they recalled the burning bodies in Angel Square, and they were afraid. And fear was useful. Fear could be manipulated into more power. And power was all Manuel cared about, in the end. "Have we heard anything from the Los Angeles Institute?" Horace asked, lounging behind his large desk. "We know from Faerie that the Blackthorns and their companions returned home. But what do they know?" What do they know? Horace and Zara had wondered the same when Dane's body had come back to them, nearly dismembered. Dane had been a fool, creeping away from Oban's camp in the middle of the night to seek the glory of retrieving the Black Volume on his own. (And he'd taken their time slippage medallion with him, which had meant that Manuel had discovered he'd lost a day or two when he'd returned to Idris.) Manuel suspected there was a longs word wound under those kelpie bites, but he didn't mention it to the Dearborns. They saw what they wanted to see, and if Emma and Julian knew that Horace had set an assassin on their trail, it wouldn't matter for much longer. "About Clary and Jace?" Manuel said. "I'm sure they know that they disappeared through the Portal into Thule. It would be impossible to get them back, though. Time has passed, the Portal has closed, and Oban assured me Thule is a deadly place. By now they will be bones bleaching in the sand of another world." "The Blackthorns and that Emma wouldn't dare say anything against us anyway," said Zara. "We still hold their secret in the palms of our hands." She touched Cortana's hilt. "Besides, nothing of theirs will be theirs for much longer, not even the Institute. A few others may stand against us: Mexico City, Buenos Aires, Mumbai. But we will deal with them all." Zara was also a true believer, Manuel thought with some distaste. She was a stick and a bore and he had never believed Diego Rocio Rosales actually saw anything in her; on balance, he seemed to have turned out to be right. He suspected Diego was languishing in jail as much for rejecting Zara as for helping some idiot faerie run away from the Scholomance. Horace turned to Manuel. "What about your phase of the plan, Villalobos?" "Everything is in order. The Unseelie forces are massing under King Oban. When they arrive at the walls of Alicante, we will ride out to show our willingness to parley with them on the Imperishable Fields. We will make sure all Shadowhunters in Alicante see us. After this charade, we will return to the Council and tell them that the fey have surrendered. The Cold Peace will be over, and in return for their willingness to help us, all entrances to Faerie will be sealed off with wards. It will be made off-limits to Shadowhunters." "Very good," said Horace. "But with the Portal to Thule closing, where does that leave us with the blight?" "Exactly where we want to be," Manuel said. He was pleased--pretending they wished to destroy the blight with fire had been his idea. He'd known it wouldn't work, and the failure would leave the Nephilim more frightened than before. "The poison has spread far enough for our purposes. The Clave all know of the blight now, and fear what it will do." "And fear will make them agreeable," said Horace. "Zara?" "The warlocks are growing sicker," Zara said with relish. "No reported transformations yet, but many Institutes have taken in warlocks in an effort to heal them. Once they turn into demons, you can imagine the bloody chaos that will ensue." "Which should make it easy to enact martial law and rid ourselves of the rest of the warlocks," said Horace. The fact that the blight would serve not just to frighten Shadowhunters but also to harm warlocks had always been seen as a plus by Horace, though Manuel saw little point in an exercise that would seriously limit the Shadowhunters' ability to do things like open Portals and heal unusual illnesses. That was the problem with true believers. They were never practical. Ah well. Some warlocks would probably survive, he reasoned. Once all the Cohort's demands were met, they could afford to be generous and destroy the blight for good. It wasn't as if Horace was fond of the blight, or its propensity to deaden angelic magic. It was simply a useful tool, as the Larkspears had been. "Are you not worried that the transformed warlocks will get out of control and slaughter Shadowhunters? Even mundanes?" "I am not," said Horace. "A properly trained Shadowhunter should be able to handle a warlock turned demon. If they cannot, then we have done our society a favor in culling them." "My question is whether Oban can be trusted," said Zara, curling her lip. "He is a faerie, after all." "He can," said Manuel. "He is far more malleable than his father was. He wants his kingdom, and we want ours. And if we bring him Prince Kieran's head as promised, he will be very pleased indeed." Horace sighed. "If only these arrangements did not have to be secret. The whole of the Clave should glory in the rightness of our plan." "But they don't like faeries, Papa," said Zara, who was, as always, incredibly literal. "They wouldn't like making deals with them or encouraging them to bring the blight into Idris, even if it was for a worthy cause. It is illegal to work with demonic magic--though I know it's necessary," she added hastily. "I wish Samantha and Dane were still around. Then we could talk to them." Manuel thought with little interest of Dane, undone by his own stupidity, and of Samantha, currently raving her head off in the Basilias. He doubted either of them would have been much help even in their former states. "It is a lonely burden, daughter, to be the ones tasked with doing the right thing," said Horace pompously. Zara got up from her chair and patted his shoulder. "Poor Papa. Do you want to look into the scrying mirror one more time? It always cheers you up." Manuel sat up in his chair. The scrying mirror was one of the few things he didn't find boring. Oban had magicked it to reflect the fields before the Unseelie Tower. Zara held the mirror up so that the light from the demon towers sparked off its silver handle. She gave a little squeal as the glass turned clear, and through it they saw the green fields of Unseelie and the anthracite tower. Lined up in front of the tower were row upon row of Unseelie warriors, so many that the view of them filled the scene even as the rows diminished into the distance: an army without limit, without end. Their swords shone in the sunlight like a vast field planted with razor-sharp blades. "What do you think?" said Horace with pride, as if he himself had put together the army. "Spectacular, isn't it, Annabel?" The woman with the long dark-brown hair, sitting silently in the corner of the room, nodded calmly. She wore clothes that matched the ones she had worn that bloody day in the Council Hall; Zara had dredged up near-exact copies, but it was Manuel who had first thought of deploying them, as if they were themselves a weapon. There were few things stronger than fear. Since the Council meeting, the Shadowhunters had been terrified of Annabel Blackthorn. If she appeared before them, they would cower behind Horace. His ability to protect them would be all they cared about. And when it came to Julian Blackthorn and the rest of his irritating family, there would be more than just fear. There would be rage. Hatred. All emotions the Cohort could exploit. Horace gave a nervous laugh and turned back to studying the mirror. Hidden by the lengthening shadows, Manuel grinned savagely. Absolutely nobody was prepared for what was coming. Just the way he liked it. <|title|>Chapter 24: The Long Night-Time <|startofchapter|>Aline Penhallow, Head of the Los Angeles Institute: White banners of mourning fly over our capital city today, and green flags to speed the healing of our hearts. Heroes of the Dark War Jonathan Herondale and Clarissa Fairchild have been slain by Unseelie hands. They were on a mission for the Clave, and their deaths will be celebrated as the deaths of heroes. Their bodies have not yet been recovered. Such a brutal breakage of the Cold Peace must be reckoned with. Starting this morning, at sunrise in Alicante, we shall consider ourselves in a state of War with Faerie-kind. Members of the Council will reach out to the Court to seek parley and reparations. If a faerie is seen outside their Lands, you are free to capture them and bring them to Alicante for questioning. If you must slay the faerie in question, you will not be in breach of the Accords. Faeries are cunning, but we will prevail and avenge our fallen heroes. As always in a state of War, individual Shadowhunters are expected to return to Idris to report for duty within forty-eight hours. Please notify the Clave of your travel plans as Portal activity into Idris will be monitored. Horace Dearborn, Inquisitor NB: As our Consul, Jia Penhallow, is suspected of involvement with faeries, she is being held in the Gard tower until such time as she can be questioned. "Jia?" Emma said in disbelief. "They jailed the Consul?" "Aline is trying to reach Patrick," said Helen in a low voice. "House arrest is one thing, but this is another. Aline's frantic." "Who knows you're alive?" Alec demanded, turning to Jace. "Who knows that what's in this letter isn't true?" Jace looked startled. "The people in this house. Magnus--where is Magnus?" "Sleeping," Alec said. "So, besides us?" "Simon and Izzy. Mom. Maia and Bat. That's all." He swiveled around in his chair. "Why? Do you think we should go to Alicante? Expose their lies?" "No," Julian said. His voice was quiet but firm. "You can't do that." "Why not?" Helen said. "Because this isn't a mistake," said Julian. "This is a false flag operation. They believe you're dead--they wouldn't risk this if they didn't--and they're pinning the blame on Faerie to encourage a war." "Why would anyone want war?" said Helen. "Didn't they see what the last one did?" "People seize power in wars," said Julian. "If they make faeries the enemy, they can make themselves the heroes. Everyone will forget the complaints they had about the current Council. They'll unite behind them in a common cause. A war can begin with a single death. Here they have two--and both are famous, heroes to the Clave." Both Jace and Clary looked uncomfortable. "I see a flaw in this plan," said Jace. "They still have to fight and win a war." "Maybe," said Julian. "Maybe not. It depends what their plan is." "I see another flaw," said Clary. "We're not actually dead. It's pretty cocky of them to think they can get away with pretending we are." "I think they believe it," said Emma. "The fight in the Court was chaos. They probably don't realize who went through the Portal into Thule and who didn't. And who knows what Manuel told them. He likes to bend the truth anyway, and without the Mortal Sword, he can bend away. I bet he wants a war." "But surely the Council won't truly support the idea of a war with Faerie," said Clary. "Or do you really think the whole Council is lost to us?" Emma was surprised; Clary was looking at Julian as if she were deeply invested in his answer, though she was five years older. It was strange to think Julian's sharp brilliance didn't just belong to her, to his family. "Enough of them are," said Julian. "Enough of them have already gotten behind the Cohort and this message. Otherwise they wouldn't be demanding we all return to Alicante in two days." "But we're not going to do that," said Mark. "We cannot go back to Alicante now. It is under the Cohort's control." "And last time we were there, Horace sent us on a suicide mission," Emma pointed out. "I don't think we'd all be safe in Idris." It was a sobering thought --Idris was their homeland, meant to be the safest place in the world for Shadowhunters. "We're not going," Helen said. "Not only would it be unsafe but it would mean abandoning the warlocks to the ravages of the blight." "But Jace and Clary can't go to Lake Lyn," said Alec. His black hair was standing up in a ruffled mess, and his hands were tightened into fists. "All Portal activity is being monitored." "That's why you didn't leave at dawn," Emma said, wondering how long Clary and Jace had been sitting here, staring at the letter in horror. "But there has to be some way," Jace said, gazing at Alec with desperation. "Clary and I can travel overland, or--" "You can't," Emma interrupted. "There are pieces of this I don't understand, but I can tell you one thing. The Cohort is using your deaths to get what they want. If the two of you go to Alicante and the Cohort hears about it, even a whisper, they'll put everything they've got into lulling you." "Emma's right," said Julian. "They have to keep believing you're dead." "Then I'll go," Alec said. "Clary can make me a Portal to somewhere near Idris and I can cross the border on foot--" "Alec, no. Magnus needs you here," Clary said. "Besides, you're the head of the Downworlder-Shadowhunter Alliance. The Cohort would love to get their hands on you." Kieran rose to his feet. "None of you can go," he said. "What you Nephilim lack is subtlety. You would go galloping into Idris, bringing disaster down on all of us. Meanwhile, faeries can slip into Idris as swift as a shadow and bring back what you need." "Faeries?" Jace raised an eyebrow. "You seem to be one faerie. Maybe two if you count half of Helen and half of Mark." Kieran looked annoyed. "Faeries are forbidden to even set foot on the soil of Idris," said Alec. "There are probably wards up, and sensors--" "Isn't it convenient that there are faerie steeds who fly," Kieran said, "and riders who ride those steeds, and that I am one?" "This is kind of a rude way of offering help," said Jace, and caught Clary's eye. "But I'm all in," he added. "Are you offering to fly into Idris and collect the water?" Kieran had begun to pace. His dark hair had turned deep blue, threaded with white strands. "You will need more than one faerie. You will need a legion. Those who can fly into Idris, collect the water, destroy the blight, and bring the cure to warlocks all over the world. You need the Wild Hunt." "The Hunt?" said Mark. "Even with Gwyn as a friend of Diana's, I do not think the Hunt would do this for Nephilim." Kieran drew himself up. For the first time, Emma saw some of his father in his stance and in the set of his jaw. "I am a prince of Faerie, and a Hunter," he said. "I killed the Unseelie King with my own hands. I believe they will do it for me." On the roof, Kit could hear voices floating up from the kitchen below--raised and frantic voices. He couldn't hear what they were talking about, though. "A letter from Livvy," he said, turning around to look at Ty. The other boy was sitting at the roof s edge, his legs dangling over the side. Kit hated how close Ty was willing to get to the edges of things: Sometimes it seemed like he had no sense of spatial danger, the reality of what would happen if he fell. "The other Livvy, in the other universe." Ty nodded. His too-long hair fell into his eyes, and he pushed it back impatiently. He was wearing a white sweater with holes in the cuffs that he'd pushed his thumbs through, as if he were hooking the sleeves on. "Emma gave it to me. I wondered if you wanted to read it." "Yes," Kit said. "I do." Ty held it out to him and Kit took the light envelope, looked at the scrawl on the cover. Tiberius. Did it look like Livvy's handwriting? He wasn't sure. He didn't remember studying her handwriting; he knew he was forgetting the sound of her voice. The sun was beating down on the roof, making Ty's gold locket spark. Kit opened the letter and began to read. Ty, I've thought so many times about what I would say to you if you reappeared suddenly. If I was walking along the street and you popped out of thin air, walking along beside me like you always used to, with your hands in your pockets and your head tilted back. Mom used to say you walked celestially, looking up at the sky as if you were scanning the clouds for angels. Do you remember that? In your world I am ashes, I am ancestors, my memories and hopes and dreams have gone to build the City of Bones. In your world, I am lucky, because I do not have to live in a world without you. But in this world, I am you. I am the twinless twin. So I can tell you this: When your twin leaves the earth you live on, it never turns the same way again: the weight of their soul is gone, and everything is off balance. The world rocks under your feet like an unquiet sea. I can't tell you it gets easier. But it does get steadier; you learn how to live with the new rocking of the new earth, the way sailors gain sea legs. You learn. I promise. I know you're not exactly the Ty I had in this world, my brilliant, beautiful brother. But I know from Julian that you are beautiful and brilliant too. I know that you are loved. I hope that you are happy. Please be happy. You deserve it so much. I want to ask if you remember the way we used to whisper words to each other in the dark: star, twin, glass. But I'll never know your answer. So I'll whisper to myself as I fold this letter up and slide it into the envelope, hoping against hope it will somehow reach you. I whisper your name, Ty. I whisper the most important thing: I love you. I love you. I love you. Livvy When Kit lowered the letter, the whole world looked a little too sharp and bright, as if he were seeing it through a magnifying glass. His throat hurt. "What--what do you think?" I love you, I love you, I love you Let him hear it, let him believe it and let go. "I think ..." Ty reached up for the letter and folded it back into his jacket pocket. "I think this isn't my Livvy. I'm sure she's a good person, but she isn't mine." Kit sat down, a little suddenly. "What do you mean?" Ty gazed out at the ocean, at its steady incursion and recession. "My Livvy would want to come back to me. This one didn't. It would be interesting to meet this Livvy, but it's probably good that she didn't come back with Emma and Jules, because then we couldn't bring back the right Livvy." "No," Kit said. "No, you don't get it. It's not that she didn't want to come back. She's needed there. I'm sure she would have wanted to be with her family if she could. Imagine having to bear that loss--" "I don't want to." Ty cut him off sharply. "I know she feels bad. I'm really sorry for her. I am." He had taken a piece of thread from his pocket and was worrying at it with nervous hands. "But that's not why I brought you the letter. You know what it is?" "I guess I don't," Kit said. "It's the last thing we need for the spell," Ty said. "It's an object from another dimension." Kit felt as if he were on a roller coaster that had suddenly, precipitously, dropped. He was about to say something when Ty made a soft sound of wonder; he tilted his head back as above them flew a black-and-gray horse and a brown one, their hooves trailing gold and silver vapor. They both watched in silence as the horses landed on the grass in front of the Institute. One of the riders was a familiar woman in a black dress. Diana. The other was Gwyn ap Nudd, leader of the Wild Hunt. They both watched in astonishment as Gwyn dismounted before going to help Diana down. Dru clambered up onto the roof. Ty and Kit were already there, standing disturbingly close to the roof s edge. She wasn't surprised; she'd figured out a long time ago that whenever they wanted to talk in private, they disappeared up here, the way Emma and Julian used to when they were younger. She hadn't really talked to either of them since the time she'd gone into Ty's room. She didn't know what to say. Everyone else in the family--Helen, Mark--was talking about how well Ty was recovering, how strong he was being, how he was holding up in the face of Livvy's death. But she had seen his room torn apart and the blood on his pillowcases. It had made her look more closely at him--at how thin he was, and the scrapes across his knuckles. After their father had died, Ty had gone through a phase of biting at his own hands. He would wake up in the night having gnawed the skin over his knuckles. She guessed he was doing that again, and that was why there was blood on his pillows. Helen and Mark couldn't recognize it; they hadn't been there years ago. Livvy would have known. Julian would have known, but he had only just gotten home. And besides, talking to anyone about it seemed like a betrayal of Ty. The story of Thule haunted her, too--a world in which Ty was dead. In which she herself was missing. In which the Blackthorns were no longer a family. A world where Sebastian Morgenstern had ruled. Even the name Ash haunted her, as if she'd heard it before, though she had no memory of having done so. The idea of Thule was a dark nightmare, reminding her of the fragility of the bonds that held her to her family. The last thing she wanted to do was upset Ty. And so she'd avoided him, and Kit by consequence since they were always together. They didn't own the roof, though. She stomped over to where they were standing, making plenty of noise so she wouldn't surprise them. They didn't seem bothered to see her. "Gwyn and Diana are here," said Kit. When he'd come to them, he had looked a bit pale, as if he'd spent most of his time indoors and at night markets. Now he had color--the beginnings of a tan and flushed cheeks. He looked more like Jace, especially as his hair had grown out and started to curl. "I know." She joined them at the roofs edge. "They're going to Idris. They're going to get the water from Lake Lyn." She filled them in quickly, pleased to be the one who had news for a change. Kieran had come out of the Institute and was walking across the grass toward Diana and Gwyn. His back was very straight, the sun bright on his blue-black hair. Kieran inclined his head to Diana and turned to Gwyn. Kieran had changed, Dm thought. She remembered the first time she'd seen him, bloody and furious and bitterly angry at the world. She had regarded him as an enemy of Mark, of all of them. She had seen different sides of him since then. He had fought alongside them. He had watched bad movies with her. She thought of him complaining about his love life the night before, and laughing, and looked down at him now: Gwyn had laid a hand on his shoulder and was nodding, clear respect in his gestures. People were made up of all sorts of different bits, Dru thought. Funny bits and romantic bits and selfish bits and brave bits. Sometimes you saw only a few of them. Maybe it was when you saw them all that you realized you knew someone really well. She wondered if there would ever be anyone besides her family that she knew like that. "We should go downstairs," Ty said, his gray eyes curious. "Find out what's going on." He headed for the trapdoor that led to the stairs. Kit had just started to follow him when Drusilla tapped him on the shoulder. Kit turned to look at her. "What is it?" "Ty," she said in a low voice. Dru glanced over at her brother automatically as she said his name; he'd already disappeared down the steps. "I want to talk to you about him, but not with anyone else around, and you have to promise not to tell him. Can you promise?" "Have a good watch," Jace said, ruffling Clary's hair. Diana and Gwyn had departed for Idris. Emma had watched them vanish until they were a speck on the horizon, disappearing into the haze of the Los Angeles air. Alec had gone to be with Magnus, and the rest of them had agreed to take turns at patrolling the perimeter of the Institute. "We need to be alert," Julian had said. "This message from the Cohort is a loyalty test. They're going to be watching Institutes to see who races to Alicante to pledge themselves to the fight against Faerie. They know we'll delay as long as possible"--he gestured at Mark and Helen--"but I wouldn't put it past them to move on us first." "That wouldn't be very clever," Mark had said, frowning. "All they have to do is wait, and they can declare us traitors soon enough." "They're not that smart," Julian had agreed grimly. "Vicious, but not smart." "Unfortunately, Manuel is pretty smart," said Emma, and though everyone had looked grimmer than ever, no one had disagreed. Clary and Emma had the second watch after Jace and Helen; Helen had already gone inside to check on Aline, and Emma was trying to look off into the distance while Clary and Jace kissed and made cutesy noises at each other. "I hope everything's all right in Alicante," she said eventually, more to determine if they were still kissing than anything else. "It can't be," said Jace, breaking away from Clary. "They all think I'm dead. There had better be a mourning parade. We should find out who's sending flowers." Clary rolled her eyes, not without affection. "Maybe Simon or Izzy can make a list. Then when we come back from the dead, we can send them flowers." "Women will be in mourning to hear of my passing," Jace said, bounding up the steps. "Garments will be rent. Rent, I tell you." "You're taken," Clary called up at him. "It's not like you're a single dead hero." "Love knows no bounds," said Jace, and sobered. "I'm going to go check on Alec and Magnus. I'll see you two later." He waved and vanished. Clary and Emma, both in gear, started to cut across the grass toward the path that led around the Institute. Clary sighed. "Jace hates being away from Alec at times like this. There isn't anything he can do, but I understand wanting to be with your parabatai when they're suffering. I'd want to be with Simon." "It's not like he's there just for himself," Emma said. The sky was dark blue and chased with fading clouds. "I'm sure it's better for Alec, having him there. I mean, I think part of what was so awful for the Alec in Thule was that he must have felt so alone when he lost Magnus. So many of his friends were already dead, and his parabatai was worse than dead." Clary shuddered. "We should talk about something more cheerful." Emma tried to think about cheerful things. Julian getting the spell taken off him? Not a topic she could discuss. Zara being squished by a boulder made her seem vengeful. "We could discuss your visions," she said carefully. Clary looked at her in surprise. "The ones you told me about, where you said you saw yourself die. In the Unseelie Court, when you looked through the Portal--" "I realized what I'd been seeing, yes," Clary said. "I was seeing me, and I was dead, and I was also seeing the dream I'd been having." She took a deep breath. "I haven't had it since we came back from Faerie. I think the dreams were actually trying to tell me about Thule." They had reached the place where grass turned into desert and scrub; the ocean was a thick line of blue paint in the distance. "Did you tell Jace?" Emma asked. "No. I can't do it now. I feel so stupid, and like he might never forgive me-- and besides, Jace needs to focus on Alec and Magnus. We all do." Clary kicked a small stone out of her path. "I've known Magnus since I was a little girl. The first time I met him, I pulled his cat's tail. I didn't know he could have turned me into a frog or a mailbox if he wanted." "Magnus will be okay," Emma said, but she knew she didn't sound sure. She couldn't be. Clary's voice shook. "I just feel like, if the warlocks are lost--if the Cohort succeeds in pitting Shadowhunters against Downworlders in war--then everything I ever did was useless. Everything I gave up during the Dark War. And it means I'm not a hero. I never was." Clary stopped walking to lean against a massive boulder, one that Ty liked to climb. She was clearly struggling not to cry. Emma stared at her in horror. "Clary," she said. "You're the one who taught me what being a hero means. You said heroes don't always win. That sometimes they lose, but they keep fighting." "I thought I had kept fighting. I guess I thought I had won," Clary said. "I've been to Thule," Emma said fiercely. "That world was the way it was because you weren't in it. You were the crisis point, you made all the difference. Without you, Sebastian would have won the Dark War. Without you, so many people would be dead, and so much goodness would be gone from the world forever." Clary took a deep breath. "We're never done fighting, are we?" "I don't think so," Emma said. Clary pushed away from the rock. They rejoined the path, curving through the desert among the shrubs, deep green and chalky violet. The sun was low over the horizon, lighting the desert sand to gold. "In Thule," Emma said as they rounded the corner of the Institute, "Jace was under Sebastian's mind control. But there was something I didn't say in the library. Sebastian was able to control Jace only because he lied about his involvement in your death. He was afraid that even under a spell, no matter how strong the spell was, Jace would never forgive him for letting you be hurt." "And you're telling me this because?" Clary eyed Emma sideways. "Because Jace would forgive you for anything," said Emma. "Go tell him you were being a butt for a good reason, and ask him to marry you." Clary burst out laughing. "That's romantic." Emma grinned. "That's just my suggestion about the sentiment. The actual proposal is up to you." Helen had given Magnus and Alec one of the largest rooms. Jace suspected it had probably belonged to the Blackthorns' parents at one time. It was odd, actually, even to think of Blackthorn parents and not to think of Julian--quiet, competent, secretive Julian--as the one who took care of the children. But people became what they had to be: Julian probably hadn't wanted to become a parent at age twelve, any more than Jace had wanted to leave Idris and lose his father at age nine. He would not have believed it if someone had told him he would gain a new and better family in New York, just as Julian would not have believed that he would love his siblings so fiercely it would all be worth it. Or so Jace suspected, at least. Jace looked over at Alec, the brother he had gained. Alec sat propped on one side of the big wooden bed in the room's center: Magnus lay beside him, curled on his side, his black hair stark against the white pillow. Jace hadn't seen Alec this drained and exhausted-looking since Magnus had vanished into Edom five years ago. Alec had gone to get him back: He would have gone anywhere for Magnus. But Jace was afraid--worse than afraid--that Magnus was going somewhere that Alec couldn't follow. He didn't want to think about what would happen if Magnus went; the story of Thule had sent icy needles through his veins. He suspected he knew what would happen to him if he lost Clary. He couldn't bear to think of Alec in such insupportable pain. Alec bent over and kissed Magnus's temple. Magnus stirred and murmured but didn't wake. Jace hadn't seen him awake since the night before. Alec looked over at Jace, his eyes deeply shadowed. "What time is it?" "Sunset," said Jace, who never carried a watch. "I can go find out if you need to know." "No. It's probably already too late to call the kids." Alec rubbed the back of his hand across his eyes. "Besides, I keep hoping I can call them with good news." Jace stood up and went to the window. He felt like he couldn't breathe. Take this pain away from Alec, he prayed to the Angel Raziel. Come on, we've met. Do this for me. It was something of an unorthodox prayer, but it was heartfelt. Alec raised an eyebrow at him. "You're praying?" "How did you know?" Out of the window, Jace could see the grass in front of the Institute, the highway and the ocean beyond. The whole world going on in its ordinary way, not caring about the problems of Shadowhunters and warlocks. "Your lips were moving," said Alec. "You hardly ever pray, but I appreciate the thought." "I don't usually have to pray," said Jace. "Usually when things go wrong, we come to Magnus and he fixes them." "I know." Alec picked at a stray thread on his cuff. "Maybe we should have gotten married," he said. "Magnus and me. We've been unofficially engaged all this time, but we wanted to wait for the Cold Peace to be over. For Downworlders and Shadowhunters to be able to be properly married." "In Shadowhunter gold and warlock blue," said Jace. He'd heard this before, the explanation for why Alec and Magnus hadn't married yet, but planned to someday. He'd even gone with Alec to pick out rings for the day Alec and Magnus would finally tie the knot--simple gold bands with the words Aku Cinta Kamu etched on them. He'd known the rings were a secret from Magnus, because Alec wanted to surprise his partner, but he hadn't known there were fears and worries behind something they seemed so sure would happen all in due time. It was always hard to tell the truth of other people's relationships. "Then Magnus would at least know how much I love him," Alec said, leaning forward to brush a stray hair from Magnus's forehead. "He knows," Jace said. "You should never doubt he knows." Alec nodded. Jace glanced back out the window. "They just switched over watch," he said. "Clary said she'd come see how Magnus was doing when she was done with this shift." "Should I take a turn at watch?" Alec asked. "I don't want to let anyone down." The lump in Jace's throat ached. He sat down next to hi parabatai, who he had sworn to follow, to live beside, to die with. Surely that also encompassed the sharing of burdens and grief. "This is your watch, brother," he said. Alec exhaled softly. He put one hand on Magnus's shoulder, the lightest of touches. He reached out with his other hand and Jace took it, lacing their fingers together. They held fast to each other in silence as the sun went down over the ocean. "So what happens?" Aline said. They stood at the edge of the bluffs, overlooking the highway and the sea. "If Magnus starts turning into a demon. What happens?" Her eyes were red and swollen but her back was straight. She had talked to her father, who had told her only what he knew: That guards had come in the early morning to take Jia to the Gard. That Horace Dearborn had promised no harm would come to her, but that "a show of good faith" was necessary to reassure those who had "lost confidence." If he thought it was all lies, he didn't say so, but Aline knew it was and had called Dearborn every name in the book to Helen the minute she had hung up the phone. Aline had always known an impressive number of curse words. "We do have the Mortal Sword," said Helen. "The one from Thule. It's hidden, but Jace knows where, and what to do. He won't let Alec do it himself." "Couldn't we--I don't know--try to capture the demon? Turn it back into Magnus?" "Oh, honey, I don't know," Helen said wearily. "I don't think there's any coming back from being turned into a demon, and Magnus wouldn't want to live like that." "It's not fair." Aline kicked a good-size rock. It sailed off the edge of the bluffs; Helen could hear it tumbling down the slope toward the highway. "Magnus deserves better than this garbage. We all do. How did everything get like this--so bad, so fast? Things were all right. We were happy." "We were in exile, Aline," Helen said. She wrapped her arms around her wife and rested her chin on Aline's shoulder. "The cruelty of the Clave tore me from my family, because of my blood. Because of what I cannot help. The seeds of this poison tree were planted long ago. We are only now watching it begin to flower." The sun had set by the time Mark and Kieran began their watch. Mark had hoped to be paired up with Julian, but for some reason Emma had wanted to go with Clary and they'd ended up oddly matched. They walked for a while in silence, letting the dusk settle into darkness around them. Mark hadn't talked to Kieran about anything significant since they'd come back from Faerie. He had wanted to, ached to, but he had been afraid of making a confusing situation even worse. Mark had started to wonder if the problem was him: if his human half and his faerie half held contradictory ideas about love and romance. If half of him wanted Kieran and the freedom of the sky and the other half wanted Cristina and the grandeur and responsibility of earthbound angels. It was enough to make someone go out into the statue garden and bang their head repeatedly against Virgil. Not that he'd done that. "We might as well talk, Mark," Kieran said. A bright moon was rising; it illuminated the dark ocean, turned it to a sheet of black-and-silver glass, the colors of Kieran's eyes. The night desert was alive with the sound of cicadas. Kieran was walking beside Mark with his hands looped behind him, deceptively human-looking in his jeans and T-shirt. He had drawn the line at donning any gear. "It does us no good to ignore each other." "I have missed you," Mark said. There seemed no point in not being honest. "Nor did I intend to ignore you, or to hurt you. I apologize." Kieran looked up with a surprised flash of silver and black. "There is no need to apologize, Mark." He hesitated. "I have had, as you say here in the mortal world, a lot on my mind." Mark hid a smile in the dusk. It was irritatingly cute when Kieran used modern phrases. "I know you have as well," Kieran went on. "You were fearful for Julian and for Emma. I understand. And yet I cannot keep myself from selfish thoughts." "What kind of selfish thoughts?" Mark said. They were near the parking lot, among the statues Arthur Blackthorn had paid to have shipped here years ago. Once they had stood in the gardens of Blackthorn House in London. Now Sophocles and the others inhabited this desert space and looked out on a sea far from the Aegean. "I believe in your cause," Kieran said slowly. "I believe the Cohort are evil people, or at least power-hungry people who seek evil solutions to the problems their fears and prejudices have created. Yet though I may believe, I cannot help but feel that no one is looking out for the welfare of my homeland. For Faerie. It was--it is--a place that possesses goodness and marvels among its dangers and trials." Mark turned to Kieran in surprise. The stars were brilliant overhead, the way they only ever were in the desert, as if they were closer to the earth here. The stars will go out before I forget you, Mark Blackthorn. "I have not heard you talk about Faerie that way before," Mark said. "I would not speak of it that way to most." Kieran touched the place at his throat where once his elf-bolt necklace had rested, then dropped his hand. "But you--you know Faerie in a way others do not. The way the water tumbles blue as ice over Branwen's Falls. The taste of music and the sound of wine. The honey hair of mermaids in the streams, the glittering of will-o'-the-wisps in the shadows of the deep forests." Mark smiled despite himself. "The brilliance of the stars--the stars here are but pale shadows of those in Faerie." "I know you were a captive there," Kieran said. "But I would like to think you came to see something good in it as you saw something good in me." "There is much that is good in you, Kieran." Kieran looked restlessly toward the ocean. "My father was a bad ruler and Oban will be an even worse one. Imagine what a good ruler could make of the Lands of Faerie. I fear for Adaon's life and I also fear for the fate of Faerie without him. If my brother cannot be King there, what hope is there for my land?" "There could be another King, another prince of Faerie who is worthy," said Mark. "It could be you." "You forget what I saw in the pool," Kieran said. "The way I hurt people. The way I hurt you. I should not be King." "Kieran, you have become a different person, and so have I," Mark said. He could almost hear Cristina's voice in the back of his mind, the soft way she had always defended Kieran--never excusing, only understanding. Explaining. "We were desperate in the Hunt, and desperation can make people unkind. But you have changed--I have seen you change, even before you touched the waters of the pool. I have seen how kind you were when you lived in your father's Court, and how you were loved because of it, and while the Wild Hunt cloaked that kindness, it did not erase it. You have been only good to me, to my family, to Cristina, since you returned from the Scholomance." "The pool--" "It is not only the pool," said Mark. "The pool helped to uncover what was already there. You understand what it means for another to suffer and that their pain is no different from your own. Most kings never understand such a thing as true empathy. Think what it would be like, to have a ruler who did." "I do not know if I have that faith in myself." Kieran spoke quietly, his voice as hushed as the wind across the desert. "I have that faith in you," said Mark. At that, Kieran turned fully to Mark. His expression was open, the way Mark had not seen it in a long time, an expression that hid nothing--not his fear, nor his uncertainty, nor the transparency of his love. "I didn't know--I feared I had broken your faith in me and with it the bond between us." "Kier," Mark said, and he saw Kieran shiver at the use of that old nickname. "Today you stood up and offered all your powers as a prince and faerie to save my family. How can you not know how I feel?" Kieran was staring at his own hand, where it hovered at the edge of Mark's shirt collar. He gazed as if hypnotized at the place where their skin touched, his fingers against Mark's collarbone, sliding up to brush his throat, the side of his jaw. "You mean you are grateful?" Mark caught Kieran's hand, brought it to his chest, and pressed Kieran's open palm against his hammering heart. "Does that feel like gratitude?" Kieran looked at him with wide eyes. And Mark was back in the Hunt again, he was on a green hill in the rain, with Kieran's arms around him. Love me. Show me. "Kieran," Mark breathed, and kissed him, and Kieran gave a small harsh cry and caught Mark by the sleeves, pulling him close. Mark's arms hooked around Kieran's neck, drawing him down into the kiss: Their mouths slid together and Mark tasted their shared breath, an elixir of heat and yearning. Kieran pulled back from the kiss at last. He was grinning, the wickedly joyous grin Mark suspected no one else ever saw but him. Holding Mark by the arms, he walked him back several paces until Mark fetched up against the side of a boulder. Kieran leaned into him, his mouth against Mark's throat, his lips finding the hammering pulse point and sucking gently at it until Mark gasped and buried his hands in Kieran's silky hair. "You are killing me," Mark said, laughter bubbling up softly from the depths of his chest. Kieran chuckled, his hands moving to slip under Mark's shirt, caress his back, skate over the scars on his shoulder blades. And Mark answered his touch. He stroked his fingers through Kieran's hair, caressed his face as if mapping the curves of it, let his fingers stray to touch the skin he remembered like the substance of a dream: Kieran's sensitive throat, collarbone, wrists, the beautiful and unforgotten terrain of what he had thought was lost. Kieran breathed in harsh low moans as Mark slid his hands under the prince's shirt, stroking his uncovered skin, the silk-hardness of his flat stomach, the curves of his rib cage. "My Mark," Kieran whispered, touching Mark's hair, his cheek. "I adore you." Te adoro, Mark. Mark's skin went cold; it all seemed suddenly wrong. He dropped his hands abruptly and slid away from Kieran. He felt as if he couldn't quite catch his breath. "Cristina," he said. "Cristina is not what keeps us apart," said Kieran. "She is what brings us together. All that we have said, all the ways we have changed--" "Cristina," Mark said again, clearing his throat, because she was standing just in front of them. Cristina felt as if her face might actually catch on fire. She had come out to tell Mark and Kieran that she and Aline were prepared to take over on watch, without even once thinking that she might be interrupting them in a private moment. When she had come around the boulder, she had frozen--it had reminded her so much of the first time she had seen them together. Kieran leaning against Mark, their bodies together, their hands in each other's hair, kissing as if they could never stop. I am an awful idiot, she thought. They were both looking at her now: Mark seemed stricken, Kieran oddly calm. "I'm so sorry," Cristina said. "I only came out to tell you that your watch was ending, but--I--I will go." "Cristina," Mark said, starting toward her. "Don't go," Kieran said. It was a demand, not a request: There was a rich darkness in his voice, a depth of yearning. And though Cristina had no reason to listen, she turned slowly to look at them both. "I really think," she said, "that I probably ought to. Don't you?" "I was recently given a piece of advice by a wise person not to remain silent about what I wished for," said Kieran. "I desire you and love you, Cristina, and so does Mark. Stay with us." Cristina couldn't move. She thought again of the first time she'd seen Mark and Kieran together. The desire she'd felt. She'd thought at the time she wanted something like what they had: that she wanted that passion for herself and some unnamed boy whose face she didn't know. But it had been a long time since any face in her dreams had not been either Mark's or Kieran's. Since she had imagined any eyes looking into hers that were both the same color. She had not wanted some vague approximation of what they had: She had wanted them. She looked at Mark, who seemed pinned between hope and terror. "Kieran," he said. His voice shook. "How can you ask her that? She's not a faerie, she'll never talk to us again--" "But you will leave me," she said, hearing her own voice as if it were a stranger's. "You love each other and belong together. You will leave me and go back to Faerie." They looked at her with expressions of identical shock. "We will never leave you," said Mark. "We will stay as close to you as the tide to the shore," said Kieran. "Neither of us wishes for anything else." He reached out a hand. "Please believe us, Lady of Roses." The few steps across the sand and scrub grass were the longest and shortest Cristina had ever taken. Kieran stretched out both arms: Cristina went into them and lifted up her face and kissed him. Heat and sweetness and the curve of his lips under hers nearly lifted her off her feet. He was smiling against her mouth. Saying her name. His hand on her side, thumb gently caressing the inward dip of her waist. She leaned into him and reached out with her free hand. Mark's warm fingers closed around her wrist. As if she were a princess, he kissed the back of her fingers, brushing his lips across her knuckles. Her heart was beating triple time as she turned in Kieran's arms, her back to him. He drew her hair away from the nape of her neck and pressed a kiss there, making her shiver as she reached out to Mark. His eyes glittered blue and gold, alive with desire for her, for Kieran, for the three of them together. He let her draw him in and they tangled together as one. Mark kissed her bps as she leaned back against Kieran's chest, Kieran's hand in Mark's hair, trailing down Mark's cheek to trace the line of his collarbone. She had never felt such love; she had never been held so very close. A great clamor burst out in the sky above them--a clamor they all knew, though Kieran and Mark knew it best. They drew apart quickly as the air rushed around them: The sky swirled with movement. Manes and tails whipped in the wind, eyes glowed a thousand colors, warriors roared and shouted, and at the center of it all was a great black brindle horse with a man and woman seated on its back, pausing to look down at the earth below as the sound of a hunting horn faded on the air. Gwyn and Diana had returned, and they were not alone. Julian had always thought his studio--which had been his mother's--was the most beautiful room in the Institute. You could see everything through the two glass walls: ocean and desert; the other walls were creamy and bright with his mother's abstract paintings. He could see it now, but he couldn't feel it. Whatever feeling it was that looking at beauty had always raised in his artist's soul was gone. Without feeling, he thought, I am dissolving, like royal water dissolves gold. He knew it, but he couldn't feel that, either. To know you were despairing but not to be able to feel that despair was a strange experience. He looked at the paints he'd arranged around the plain white cloth stretched over the central island. Blue and gold, red and black. He knew what he ought to shape with them, but when he picked up the brush, he only hesitated. Everything instinctual about drawing had left him, everything that told him what would make one curve of the paintbrush better than another, everything that matched shades of color to shades of meaning. Blue was just blue. Green was green, whether light or dark. Blood red and stoplight red were the same. Emma is avoiding me, he thought. The thought didn't bring pain, because nothing did. It was just a fact. He remembered the desire he had felt in her room the night before and set his paintbrush down. It was strange to think of desire as divorced from feeling: He had never desired anyone he hadn't already loved. Never desired anyone but Emma. But the night before, with her in his arms, he had felt almost as if he could break through the dullness that surrounded him, that choked him with its nothingness; as if the blaze of wanting her could burn it down and he would be free. It was better that she did avoid him. Even in this state, his need for her was too strange, and too strong. Something flashed past the glass of the studio window. He went to look out and saw that Gwyn and Diana were on the lawn and that several of the others surrounded them: Cristina, Mark, Kieran. Gwyn was handing a glass jar to Alec, who took it and went running back toward the Institute, flying across the grass like one of his own arrows. Dru was dancing up and down with Tavvy, spinning in circles. Emma hugged Cristina and then Mark. Gwyn had an arm around Diana, who was leaning her head on his shoulder. Relief washed through Julian, brief and cool as a splash of water. He knew he should feel more, that he should feel joy. He saw Ty and Kit standing a little apart from the others; Ty had his head tipped back, as he often did, and was pointing at the stars. Julian looked up as the sky darkened with a hundred airborne riders. Mark could not help but be conscious of Kieran's tension as the Wild Hunt began to land all around them, alighting on the grass like dandelion seeds blown by the wind. He could not blame him. Mark himself felt dizzy with shock and the aftereffects of desire--already those moments with Cristina and Kieran by the boulder seemed like a fever dream. Had it happened? It must have-- Cristina was smoothing down her hair with quick, nervous movements, her lips still red from kissing. Mark checked his own clothes quickly. He no longer had faith that he had not ripped off his own shirt and cast it into the desert with the announcement that he would never need shirts again. Anything seemed possible. Kieran, though, had drawn himself up, his face a mask Mark knew well--it was the look he had always worn when the rest of the Hunt mocked him and called him princeling. Later he had won their respect and been able to protect both himself and Mark, but he had had no friends in the Hunt besides Mark-- and perhaps Gwyn, in his own odd way. Mark, though, had never won their respect. Or so he had always thought. As he gazed around the group of silent Hunters on their steeds, some faces familiar and some new, he saw that they regarded him differently. There was no contempt in their eyes as they noted the fresh Marks on his arms, the gear he wore, and the weapons belt at his waist, bristling with seraph blades. The riotous celebration that had followed the arrival of Gwyn and Diana had quieted down upon the arrival of the Hunt. Helen had taken Dru and Tavvy and marched them back to the house, over their protests. Diana slid from Orion's back and went to stand beside Kit and Ty as Emma headed back to the Institute with Aline to see if they could help Alec. Gwyn dismounted, removing his helmet as he did so. To Mark's astonishment, he inclined his head to Kieran. He wasn't sure he'd ever seen Gwyn bow his head to anyone before. "Gwyn," said Kieran. "Why have you brought all the Hunt here? I thought they were delivering the water." "They wished to acknowledge you before they left upon their mission," said Gwyn. One of the Hunt, a tall man with an impassive, scarred face, bowed from his saddle. "We have done your will," he said. "Liege lord." Kieran blanched. "Liege lord?" echoed Cristina, clearly stunned. Diana touched Gwyn lightly on the shoulder and strode back toward the Institute. Mark's head was spinning: "Liege" was what the Hunt often called a monarch, a King or Queen of Faerie. Not a mere prince, and not one sworn to the Hunt. Kieran inclined his head, at last. "My thanks," he said. "I will not forget this." That seemed to satisfy the Hunt; they turned their horses and took to the air, bursting up into the sky like fireworks. Ty and Kit ran to the edge of the clearing to watch them as they hurtled across the sky, riders and steeds blurring into the same silhouettes. Their hooves churned the air, and a deep boom of thunder sounded across the beaches and coves. Kieran turned to stare at Gwyn. "What was that?" he demanded. "What are you doing, Gwyn?" "Your mad brother Oban sits upon the throne of Unseelie," said Gwyn. "He drinks, he whores, he makes no laws. He demands loyalty. He musters an army to bring to his parley with the Cohort, though his advisers warn against it." "Where is my brother?" said Kieran. "Where is Adaon?" Gwyn looked uneasy. "Adaon is weak," he said. "And he is not the one who slew the King. He has not earned the throne." "You would put a Hunter on the throne," said Kieran. "A friend to your causes." "Perhaps," said Gwyn. "But regardless of what I want, Adaon is a prisoner in Seelie. Kieran, there will be a battle. There is no avoiding it. You must take the mantle of leadership from Oban as all look on." "Take the mantle of leadership?" said Mark. "Is that a euphemism?" "Yes," said Gwyn. "You can't honestly be telling him to kill his brother in the middle of a battle," said Cristina, looking furious. "Kieran killed his father in the middle of a battle," said Gwyn. "I should think he could do this. There is hardly family feeling between Kieran and Oban." "Stop!" Kieran said. "I can speak for myself. I will not do it, Gwyn. I am not fit to be King." "No?" Gwyn demanded. "The best of my Hunters? Kieran--" "Leave him be, Gwyn," Mark said. "It is his choice alone." Gwyn placed his helmet on his head and swung himself onto Orion's back. "I am not asking you to do this because it is the best thing for you, Kieran," he said, looking down from the horse's back. "I am asking you because it is the best thing for Faerie." Orion sprang into the air. In the distance, Ty and Kit gave a small cheer, waving at Gwyn from the ground. "Gwyn has gone mad," said Kieran. "I am not the best thing for anyplace." Before Mark could reply, Cristina's phone beeped. She picked it up and said, "It's Emma. Magnus is recovering." She smiled all over her face, bright as a star. "The lake water is working." <|title|>Chapter 25: By Lifting Winds <|startofchapter|>Sunlight poured into the library through every available window: They had all been flung open. It lay in squares on the floor and painted the table in bright stripes. It turned Mark's and Helen's hair to white gold, made Jace into a tousled bronze statue, and lit Magnus's cat eyes to tourmaline as he sat curled on the couch, looking pale but energized and drinking Lake Lyn water out of a crystal vial with a brightly colored straw. He was leaning against Alec, who was grinning ear to ear and scolding Magnus to drink more water. Emma wouldn't have thought it was possible to do both at once, but Alec was used to multitasking. "This water is making me drunk," Magnus complained. "And it tastes awful." "It contains no alcohol," said Diana. She looked tired--not surprising, after her journey to and from Idris--but composed as always, in a tailored black dress. "It might have a slight hallucinatory effect, though." "That explains why I can see seven of you," Magnus said to Alec. "My ultimate fantasy." Dru covered Tavvy's ears, though Tavvy was playing with a Slinky Alec had given him and appeared deaf to the world. Magnus pointed. "That one of you over there is extremely attractive, Alexander." "That's a vase," said Helen. Magnus squinted at it. "I'd be willing to buy it from you." "Maybe later," said Helen. "Right now we should all focus on what Diana has to tell us." Diana took a sip of coffee. Emma had tea; everyone else was mainlining caffeine and sugar. Alec had gone out in a state of mad happiness and bought dozens of cinnamon rolls, doughnuts, and pies for breakfast. This had had the effect of getting everyone to rush at top speed to the library, including Kit and Ty. Even the most secretive fifteen-year-old boy wasn't immune to glazed apple fritters. "I told some of you last night, but it's probably best I explain it again," she said. "We were able to get a great deal of water from Lake Lyn with the help of the Wild Hunt; they are currently distributing it to warlocks all over the world." "The Clave and Council have noticed nothing," said Helen. "Aline spoke to her father this morning and he confirmed it." Aline was in the office now, tracking the progress of the deliveries of the lake water to warlocks in even the remotest places. Emma raised her Styrofoam cup of tea. "Good job, Diana!" A cheer went around the table; Diana smiled. "I could not have done it without Gwyn," she said. "Or without Kieran. It is faeries who have helped us." "The Children of Lilith will indeed be in debt to the Children of the Courts after this day, Kieran Kingson," said Magnus, staring intently in what he clearly thought was Kieran's direction. "That was a very nice speech, Bane," said Jace. "Unfortunately, you're talking to a doughnut." "I appreciate the sentiment regardless," said Kieran. He had blushed at Diana's words and the tops of his cheekbones were still pink. It made a nice contrast with his blue hair. Diana cleared her throat. "We brought the lake water to the blight," she said. "It seemed to stop it from spreading, but the land is still ruined. I don't know if it will heal." "Tessa says it will stop affecting the warlocks," said Cristina. "That the land will always be scarred, but the sickness will no longer spread." "Did you see anything else in Idris?" Julian asked. Emma looked at him sideways; it hurt to look at him too directly. "Anything else we should know?" Diana turned the cup in her hands around thoughtfully. "Idris feels-- empty and strange with no Downworlders there. Some of its magic has fled. A Brocelind without faeries is just a forest. It is as if a piece of the soul of Idris is gone." "Helen --" It was Aline, slamming the door behind her; she looked disheveled and worried. In her hand was a piece of slightly charred paper--a fire-message. She stopped dead as she seemed to realize how many other people were in the library. "I just talked to Maia in New York. A mob of Shadowhunters descended on a group of harmless faeries and slaughtered them. Kaelie Whitewillow is dead." Aline's voice was tight with strain. "How dare they?" Magnus sat up straight, his face alive with fury. He slammed the vial down on the table. "The Cold Peace wasn't enough? Banishing Downworlders who have lived in Idris for centuries wasn't enough? Now it's murder?" "Magnus--" Alec began, clearly worried. Blue flame shot from Magnus's hands. Everyone jerked backward; Dru grabbed Tavvy. Kieran flung an arm across Cristina to shield her; so did Mark, at the same time. No one looked more startled than Cristina. Emma raised an eyebrow at Cristina across the table. Cristina blushed, and both Mark and Kieran quickly dropped their arms. The blue flame was gone in a moment; there was a streak of char on the table, but no other damage. Magnus looked down at his hands in surprise. "Your magic's back!" said Clary. Magnus winked at her. "Some say it was never gone, biscuit." "This can't go on," Jace said. "This attack was in revenge for our deaths." Clary agreed. "We have to tell people we're alive. We can't let our names become instruments of vengeance." A hubbub of voices broke out at the table. Jace was looking sick; Alec had a hand on hi parabatais shoulder. Magnus was grimly studying his hands, still blue at the fingertips. "Be realistic, Clary," Helen said. "How do you plan to reveal yourselves and still keep yourselves safe?" "I don't care about being safe," Clary said. "No, you never have," Magnus pointed out. "But you are a significant weapon against the Cohort. You and Jace. Don't take yourselves out of the equation." "A message from Idris came while I was in the office," said Aline. "The parley with the Unseelie King and Horace Dearborn will take place on the Imperishable Fields in two days." "Who's going to be there?" said Emma. "Just the Cohort and the King," she said. "So they could say anything at all to each other, and we wouldn't know?" said Mark. Aline frowned. "No, that's the odd thing. The letter said the parley would be Projected throughout Alicante. Everyone in the city will be able to see it." "Horace wants to be observed," Julian said, half to himself. "What do you mean?" Emma asked him. He frowned, clearly puzzled and frustrated. "I don't--I'm not entirely sure "Manuel spoke of this in Faerie," said Mark, as if suddenly remembering something. "Did he not, Kieran? He said to Oban: 'When every Shadowhunter sees you meet and achieve a mutually beneficial peace, all will realize that you and Horace Dearborn are the greatest of leaders, able to achieve the alliance your forefathers could not.'" "Oban and Manuel knew this would happen?" said Emma. "How could they have known?" "Somehow, this is the unfolding of the Cohort's plan," said Magnus. "And that can't be good." He frowned. "It only involves half of Faerie. The Unseelie half." "But they are the half who are trying to destroy Nephilim. The half that opened the Portal to Thule and brought the blight," said Mark. "And it is a fact that many Shadowhunters will simply think that it is another sign the Fair Folk are evil," said Cristina. "The Cold Peace made little distinction between Seelie and Unseelie, though it was only the Seelie Court who fought on Sebastian Morgenstern's side." "It was also only the Seelie Court who accepted the terms of the Cold Peace," said Kieran. "In the King's mind, it has been war between Unseelie and Nephilim since then. Clearly, Oban and the Cohort are planning to make that war a reality. Oban does not care about his people, and neither does Horace Dearborn. They plan for the parley to fail before all, and Dearborn and Oban will tear power from the mins." Julian was still frowning, as if trying to solve a puzzle. "Power does come from wartime," he said. "But..." "Now that the warlocks are cured, it's time for us to stop hiding," Jace said. "We need to intercede in Idris--before this sham parley." "Intercede?" said Julian. "A team of us will go in," said Jace. "The usual suspects--we'll bring Isabelle and Simon, Bat and Maia and Lily, the core group we trust. We'll have the advantage of surprise. We break into the Gard, free the Consul, and take the Inquisitor prisoner. We get him to confess what he's done." "He won't confess," Julian said. "He's a true believer. And if he dies for his cause, so much the better for him." Everyone looked at Julian in some surprise. "Well, you can't be suggesting we let the Cohort go on as they are," Cristina said. "No," said Julian. "I am suggesting we raise a resistance." "There aren't enough of us," said Clary. "And those who oppose the Cohort are scattered all over. How are we to know who is loyal to Horace and who isn't?" "I was in the Council room before Annabel killed my sister," Julian said. Emma felt her spine freeze; surely the others would notice how flatly he spoke about Livvy? "I saw how people reacted to Horace. And at the funeral, too, when he spoke. There are those who oppose him. I'm suggesting we reach out to Downworlders, to faeries, to warlocks, and to the Shadowhunters we know are against the Cohort, to form a bigger coalition." He's thinking of Livvy in Thule, Emma realized. Her rebels--Downworlders and Shadowhunters together. But he should say rebels, then. Freedom fighters. Livvy inspired people to fight -- Out of the corner of her eye, she saw Kieran get up and quietly leave the room. Mark and Cristina watched him go. "It's too dangerous," said Jace, sounding truly regretful. "We could bring a traitor into our midst. We can't just go off your guesses about what people believe--" "Julian is the smartest person I know," said Mark firmly. "He isn't wrong about how people feel." "We believe him," said Alec. "But we can't take the risk of bringing someone into our confidence who might spill our secrets to the Cohort." Julian's face was still, only his eyes moving, roving up and down the table, studying the faces of his companions. "What the Cohort has going for them is that they're together. They're united. We're individually throwing ourselves into danger to spare others from danger. What if instead we all stood together? We would be far more powerful--" Jace cut him off. "It's a good idea, Julian, but we just can't do it." Julian went quiet, though Emma sensed he had more to say. He wasn't going to push it. Maybe if he were more himself he would--but not this Julian. Alec rose to his feet. "Magnus and I had better head to New York for tonight. If we're all going to go to Idris, we should get the kids to my mom. We can bring Simon and Izzy back with us." "We'll stay here," said Jace, indicating himself and Clary. "This place is still vulnerable to an attack by the Cohort. We'll be the first line of defense." "We should all be ready," Clary said. "If it's okay, Helen, we'll go up to the weapons room, see if we need to requisition anything--" She paused. "I guess we can't reach out to the Iron Sisters, can we?" "They oppose the government in Idris," said Aline. "But they've shut themselves up in the Adamant Citadel. They haven't yet responded to any messages." "There are other ways to get weapons," said Ty. "There's the Shadow Market." Emma tensed, wondering if anyone was going to point out that the Shadow Market was technically off-limits to Shadowhunters. No one did. "Good idea," said Jace. "Weapons are gettable if we need them--there are weapons caches in every church and holy building in Los Angeles, but--" "But you're not fighting demons," said Kit. "Are you?" Jace gave him a long look; it was hard to miss their resemblance when they were at close quarters. "Not the usual kind," he said, and he and Clary headed to the weapons room. Mark was on his feet too; he headed out of the room with Cristina by his side, and Ty and Kit followed shortly after. Dru left with Tavvy and his Slinky. Amid the scattering, Magnus looked across the table at Julian, his cat's eyes sharp. "You stay," he said. "I want to talk to you." Helen and Aline looked curious. Alec raised an eyebrow. "All right," he said. "I'll go call Izzy and let her know we're on our way back." He glanced over at Aline and Helen. "I could use some help packing. Magnus isn't quite up to it yet." He's lying to get them out of the room, Emma thought. The invisible communication between Alec and Magnus was easy to read: She wondered if people could see the same with her and Julian. Was it clear when they were silently conversing? Not that they'd been doing that since they'd gotten back from Thule. Magnus started to turn to Emma, but Julian shook his head minutely. "Emma knows," he said. "She can stay." Magnus sat back while the others filed out of the room. In a moment it was empty except for the three of them: Emma, Julian, and Magnus. Magnus was regarding the two Shadowhunters quietly, his steady eyes moving from Julian to Emma and back again. "When did you tell Emma about the spell, Julian?" Magnus asked, his voice deceptively bland. Emma suspected there was more to the question than was immediately obvious. Julian's dark eyebrows drew together. "As soon as I could. She knows I want you to take it off me." "Ah," Magnus said. He leaned back against the sofa. "You begged for that spell," he said. "You were desperate, and in danger. Are you sure you want me to remove it?" The bright sunlight turned Julian's eyes to the color of tropical oceans in magazines; he wore a long-sleeved shirt that matched his eyes, and he was so beautiful it made her heart stutter in her chest. But it was a statue's beauty. His expression was nearly blank; she couldn't read him at all. They had barely spoken since that night in her room. Maybe it had been enough time now that he had forgotten what it meant to feel; maybe he didn't want it anymore. Maybe he hated her. Maybe it was best if he did hate her, but Emma could never believe it would be best if he never felt anything again. After an excruciating moment of silence, Julian reached down and drew up his left sleeve. His forearm was bare of bandages. He stretched his arm out to Magnus. YOU ARE IN THE CAGE. The color drained from Magnus's face. "My God," he said. "I cut this into my arm in Thule," Julian said. "When I had my emotions back, I was able to realize how miserable I'd been without them." "That is--brutal." Magnus was clearly shaken. His hair had gotten quite shaggy, Emma thought. It was rare to see Magnus less than perfectly coiffed. "But I suppose you've always been determined. I talked to Helen while you were missing--she confirmed for me that you'd been running the Institute for quite a while on your own. Covering up for Arthur, who never recovered from his experience in Faerie." "What does that have to do with the spell?" said Julian. "It sounds as if you've always had to make hard choices," said Magnus. "For yourself, and for the people you care about. This seems like another hard choice. I still know less than I wish I did about the outcome of the parabatai curse. A friend of mine has been looking into it, though, and from what he's told me, the threat is very real." He looked pained. "You may be better off as you are." "I'm not," Julian said. "And you know this isn't emotionality talking." Despite the bitterness of the words, his tone was flat. "Without my emotions, without my feelings, I'm a worse Shadowhunter. I make poorer decisions. I wouldn't trust someone who felt nothing for anyone. I wouldn't want them to make decisions that affected other people. Would you?" Magnus looked thoughtful. "Hard to say. You're very clever." Julian didn't look as if the compliment affected him one way or the other. "I wasn't always clever in the way you mean. From the time I turned twelve, when my father died and the kids became my responsibility, I had to learn how to lie. To manipulate. So if that's cleverness, I had it. But I knew where to stop." Magnus raised his eyebrows. "Julian without feelings," said Emma, "doesn't know where to stop." "I liked your idea earlier," Magnus said, looking at Julian curiously. "Raising a resistance. Why didn't you push it more?" "Because Jace wasn't wrong," Julian said. "We could be betrayed. Normally I'd be able to think past that. Imagine a solution. But not like this." He touched his temple, frowning. "I thought I'd be able to think more clearly, without feelings. But the opposite is true. I can't think at all. Not properly." Magnus hesitated. "Please," Emma said. "You'll need a plan," Magnus said. "I know your plan before was exile, but that was when Robert could help you. Horace Dearborn won't." "Dearborn won't, but another Inquisitor might. We must overthrow the Cohort in any case. There's a chance the next Inquisitor might be reasonable," said Julian. "They don't have a history of being reasonable," said Magnus. "And we don't really know the time frame here." He drummed his fingers on the table. "I have an idea," he said finally. "You won't like it." "What about one we would like?" Emma suggested. Magnus gave her a dark look. "There are a few things that will, in an emergent situation, break your bond. Death, which I don't recommend. Being bitten by a vampire--hard to arrange, and can also end in death. Having your Marks stripped off and being turned into a mundane. Probably the best option." "But only the Silent Brothers can do that," said Emma. "And we can't get near them right now." "There's Jem," Magnus said. "He and I have both seen Marks stripped. And he was a Silent Brother himself. Together, we could make it happen." He looked slightly ill. "It would be painful and unpleasant. But if there was no other choice--" 'Til do it," Emma said quickly. "If the curse starts to happen, then strip my Marks. I can take it." "I don't. . .," Julian began. Emma held her breath; the real Julian would never let her offer this. She had to get him to agree before Magnus took off the spell. "I don't like the idea," Julian said at last, looking almost puzzled, as if his own thoughts surprised him. "But if there's no other choice, ah right." Magnus gave Emma a long look, "fll take this as a binding promise," he said after a pause. He stretched out a ringed hand. "Julian. Come here." Emma watched in an agony of anticipation--what if something went wrong? What if Magnus couldn't remove the spell?--as Julian went over to the warlock and sat down on a chair facing him. "Brace yourself," said Magnus. "It'll be a shock." He reached out and touched Julian's temple. Julian started as a spark of light flew from Magnus's fingers to brush against his skin; it vanished like a firefly winking out, and Julian flinched back, suddenly breathing hard. "I know." Julian's hands were shaking. "I already went through it in Thule. I can--do it again." "It made you sick in Thule," Emma said. "On the beach." Julian looked at her. And Emma's heart leaped: In that look was everything, all of her Julian, her parabatai and best friend and first love. In it was the shining connection that had always bound them. He smiled. A careful smile, thoughtful. In it she saw a thousand memories: of childhood and sunshine, playing in the water as it rushed up and down the beach, of Julian always saving the best and biggest seashells for her. Carefully holding her hand in his when she'd cut it on a piece of glass and was too young for an iratze. He'd cried when they stitched it up, because he knew she didn't want to even though the pain was awful. He'd asked her for a lock of her hair when they both turned twelve, because he wanted to learn to paint the color. She remembered sitting on the beach with him when they were sixteen; the strap of her swimsuit had fallen down and she recalled the sharp hitch of his breath, the way he'd looked away quickly. How had she not known? she thought. How he felt. How she felt herself. The way they looked at each other wasn't the way Alec looked at Jace, or Clary at Simon. "Emma," Julian whispered. "Your Marks..." She shook her head, tears bitter in the back of her throat. It's done. The look on his face broke her heart. He knew there was no point arguing that he should be the one to have his Marks stripped instead, Emma thought. He could read her again, just like she could read him. "Julian," Magnus said. "Give me your arm. The left one." Julian tore his gaze away from Emma's and offered his scarred arm to Magnus. Magnus ran his blue-sparking fingers with surprising gentleness along Julian's forearm, and the incised letters, one by one, faded and disappeared. When he was done, he released Julian and looked between him and Emma. "I'll give you a small piece of good news," he said. "You weren't parabatai when you were in Thule. That was an injury to your bond that's healing. So you have a small cushion of time during which the bond will be weaker." Thank the Angel. "How long?" Emma said. "That depends on you. Love is powerful, and the more you're together, and let yourself feel what you do, the stronger it'll be. You need to stay away from each other. To not touch each other. Not speak to each other. Try not to even think about each other." He waved his arms like an octopus. "If you find yourselves thinking fondly of each other, for God's sake stop yourselves right away." They both stared at him. "We can't do that forever," Emma said. "I know. But hopefully, when the Cohort is gone, we'll have a new Inquisitor who can gift you with exile. And hopefully it'll happen soon." "Exile is a pretty bitter gift," Julian said. Magnus's smile was full of sorrow. "Many gifts are." It wasn't hard to find Kieran. He hadn't gone very far; he was standing in the hallway near one of the windows that looked out over the hills. He had his palm pressed flat against the glass, as if he could touch the sand and desert flowers through the barrier. "Kieran," Mark said, stopping before he reached him. Cristina stopped too; there was something remote in Kieran's expression, something distant. The awkwardness that had been between all of them since the night before was still there too, forbidding simple gestures of comfort. "I fear my people will be murdered and my country will be destroyed," Kieran said. "That all the beauty and magic of Faerie will be dissolved and forgotten." "Faeries are strong and magical and wise," said Cristina. "They have lived through all the ages of mortals. These--these culeros cannot wipe them out." "I will not forget the beauty of Faerie and neither will you," said Mark. "But it will not come to that." Kieran turned to look at them with unseeing eyes. "We need a good King. We need to find Adaon. He must take the throne from Oban and end this madness." "If you want to find Adaon, we will find him. Helen knows how to reach Nene. She can ask Nene to find him in the Seelie Court," said Cristina. "I did not want to presume she would do that for me," Kieran said. "She knows how dear you are to me," said Mark, and Cristina nodded in agreement. Helen, part-faerie herself, would surely understand. But Kieran only half-closed his eyes, as if in pain. "I thank you. Both of you." "There is no need to be so formal--" Cristina began. "There is every need," Kieran said. "What we had last night--I was happy in those moments, and I know now we will not ever have it again. I will lose one of you and possibly I will lose both of you. In fact, it seems the most likely outcome." He looked from Mark to Cristina. Neither of them moved or spoke. The moment stretched on and on; Cristina felt paralyzed. She longed to reach out to both of them, but perhaps they had already decided? Perhaps it truly was impossible, just as Kieran said. Surely he would know. And Mark looked agonized--surely he would not look like that if he did not have the same fears she did? And Kieran-- Kieran's mouth set in a hard line. "Forgive me. I must go." Cristina watched him hurry away, vanishing into the shadows at the end of the corridor. Outside the window, she saw Alec and Magnus emerge from the back door of the Institute into the bright sunlight. Clary and Jace followed. It was clear they were bidding Magnus and Alec good-bye for now. Mark leaned his back against the window. "I wish Kieran understood he would be a great King." The light through the window edged his pale hair with gilt. His eyes burned amber and sapphire. Her golden boy. Though Kieran's silver darkness was just as beautiful, in its own way. "We must talk in private, Mark," Cristina said. "Meet me outside the Institute tonight." Emma and Julian left the library in silence, and made it back to her room in the same silence before Julian finally spoke. "I should leave you here," he said, gesturing at her door. He sounded as if his throat hurt--gruff and husky. His sleeve was still rolled up to the elbow, showing the healed skin of his forearm. She wanted to touch it--to touch him, to reassure herself he was back to himself. Her Julian again. "Will you be all right?" How could I be all right? She reached for the knob blindly, couldn't make herself turn it. The words Magnus had spoken whirled in her brain. Curse, Marks stripped, stay away from each other. She turned around, pressing her back against the wood of the door. Looked at him for the first time since they'd been in the library. "Julian," she whispered. "What do we do? We can't live without talking to each other or even thinking about each other. It's not possible." He didn't move. She drank in the sight of him like an alcoholic promising themselves this was the last bottle. She had kept it together for what felt like so long by telling herself that when the spell was over, she'd have him back. Not as a romantic partner, even, but as Jules: her best friend, her parabatai. But perhaps they had just exchanged one kind of cage for another. She wondered if he thought the same. His face was no longer blank: It was alive with color, emotion; he looked stunned, as if he'd come up too quickly from a deep sea dive and the pain of the bends had just struck him. He took her face in his hands. His palms curved against her cheeks: He held her with a light, gentle wonder that she associated with the reverent handling of precious and breakable objects. Her knees went weak. Amazing, she thought; Julian under the spell could kiss her bare skin and she felt hollow inside. This Julian--her real Julian-- touched her face lightly and she was swamped by a yearning so strong it was almost pain. "We have to," he said. "In Alicante, before I went to Magnus to ask him to put the spell on me, it was because I knew--" He swallowed hard. "After we almost--on the bed--I felt my rune starting to burn." "That's why you ran out of the room?" "I could feel the curse." He ducked his head. "My rune was burning. I could see flames under my skin." "You didn't tell me that part." Emma's mind whirled; she remembered what Diana had said in Thule: Their runes began to bum like fire. As if they had fire in their veins instead of blood. "This is the first time it mattered," he said. She could see everything that had seemed invisible to her before: the bruise-dark shadows under his eyes, the lines of tension beside his mouth. "Before this, I had the spell on me, or we were in Thule and nothing could happen. We weren't parabatai there." She caught at his left wrist. He flinched; it wasn't pain, though. She knew that instinctively. It was the intensity of every touch; she felt it too, like the reverberation of a bell. "Are you sorry that Magnus took the spell off you?" "No," he said immediately. "I need to be at my best right now. I need to be able to help with what's happening. The spell made me into a person I don't want to be. A person I don't like or even trust. And I can't have someone I don't trust around you--around the kids. You matter too much to me." She shivered, still holding his wrist. His palms were rough against her cheeks; he smelled of turpentine and soap. She felt as if she were dying; she had lost him, gained him back, was losing him again. "Magnus told us we had a cushion of time. We just have to--to do what he says. Stay away from each other. It's all we can do for now," Julian said. "I don't want to stay away from you," she whispered. His eyes were fixed on her, relentless sea-glass blue. Dark as the sky in Thule. His voice was restrained, quiet, but the raw hunger in his gaze was like a scream. "Maybe if we kiss one last time," he said roughly. "Get it out of our systems." Did someone dying of thirst refuse water? All Emma had to do was nod and they fell into each other with such force that her bedroom door rattled in its frame. Anyone could come along the hall and see them, she knew. She didn't care. She grabbed his hair, the back of his shirt; her head hit the door as their mouths crashed together. She opened her lips under his, making him moan and swear and pull her up against him, harder and harder, as if he could smash their bones to pieces against each other, fuse them into a single skeleton. She clawed his shirt into fistfuls in her hands; his fingers raked her sides, tangled in her hair. Emma was aware of how close they were to something truly dangerous--she could feel the strain in his body, not from the effort of holding her, but of holding himself back. She felt behind her for the knob of the door. Twisted it. It swung open behind her and they stumbled apart. It felt like having her skin ripped away. Like agony. Her rune ached with a deep pain. Halfway into her room, she hung on to the door as if nothing else would keep her standing. Julian was gasping, disheveled; she felt as if she could hear his heart beating. Maybe it was her own, a deafening drumbeat in her ears. "Emma--" "Why?" she said, her voice shaking. "Why would something this horrible happen because of the parabatai bond? It's supposed to be something so good. Maybe the Queen was right and it's evil." "You don't--trust the Queen," Julian said breathlessly. His eyes were all pupil: black with a rim of blue. Emma's heart beat like a supernova, a collapsing dark star of frustrated longing. "I don't know who to trust. 'There is a corruption at the heart of the bond of parabatai. A poison. A darkness in it that mirrors its goodness.' That's what the Queen said." The hand at Julian's side clenched into a fist. "But the Queen--" It's more than the Queen. I should tell him. What Diana said in Thule about parabatai. But Emma held back: He was in no state to hear it, and besides, they both knew what they needed to do. "You know what has to happen," she said finally, her voice barely more than a whisper. "What Magnus said. We have a little time. We need to not-- not push it." His eyes were bleak, haunted. He didn't move. "Tell me to go away," he said. "Tell me to leave you." "Julian--" "I will always do what you ask me to do, Emma," he said, his voice harsh. The bones of his face seemed suddenly too sharp and pronounced, as if they were cutting through his skin. "Please. Ask me." She remembered the time all those years ago when Julian had put Cortana in her arms and she had held it so tightly it had left a scar. She remembered the pain and the blood. And the gratitude. He had given her what she needed then. She would give him what he needed now. She raised her chin. It might hurt like death, but she could do this. I am of the same steel and temper as Joyeuse and Durendal. "Go away, Julian," she said, putting every ounce of steel she could into the words. "I want you to go away and leave me alone." Even though he had asked her to say it, even though he knew it wasn't her real wish, he still flinched as if the words were arrows piercing his skin. He gave a short, jerky nod. Turned with sharp precision. Walked away. She closed her eyes. As his footsteps receded down the hall, she felt the pain in her parabatai rune fade, and told herself that it didn't matter. It would never happen again. Kit was lurking about in the shadows. Not because he wanted to, precisely; he liked to think he'd turned over a new leaf and was less prone to lurking and planning underhanded deeds than he used to be. Which, he realized, might be an exaggeration. Necromancy was pretty underhanded, even half-hearted participation in necromancy. Maybe it was like the tree falling in the forest: If no one knew about your necromantic activities, were they still underhanded? Pressing himself back against the wall of the Institute, he decided that they probably were. He'd come outside to talk to Jace, not realizing when he saw Jace heading out the back door that he was on his way to join Clary, Alec, and Magnus. Kit realized he'd wandered into their good-byes, and scrunched himself awkwardly into the shadows, hoping not to be noticed. Clary had hugged Alec and Magnus, and Jace had given Magnus a friendly high five. Then he'd grabbed hold of Alec and they'd hugged each other for what seemed like hours or possibly years. They'd patted each other on the back and clung on while Clary and Magnus looked on indulgently. Being parabatai did seem like intense stuff, Kit thought, rolling his shoulders to get rid of the crick in his neck. And oddly, it had been a long time since he'd thought about being Ty's parabatai. Maybe it was because Ty was in no shape to make that kind of decision. Maybe it was something else, but he pushed away from the thought as Alec and Jace let go of each other. Jace stepped back, sliding his hand into Clary's. Magnus raised his hands, and the blue sparks flew from his fingers to create the whirling door of a Portal. The wind that blew from it kicked up dust and sand; Kit squinted, barely able to see as Alec and Magnus stepped through. When the wind died down, he saw that Alec and Magnus were gone, and Jace and Clary were headed back to the Institute, hand in hand. Kit closed his eyes and banged his head silently against the wall. "Do you do that because you enjoy it, or because it feels good when you stop?" saida voice. Kit's eyes popped open. Jace was standing in front of him, muscular arms crossed, an amused look on his face. Clary must have gone inside. "Sorry," Kit muttered. "Don't apologize. It doesn't make any difference to me if you want to scramble your brains like eggs." Grumbling, Kit stepped out of the shadows and stood blinking in the sun, dusting off his shirt. "I wanted to talk to you, but I didn't want to interrupt all the good-bye hugging," he said. "Alec and I are unafraid to express our manly love," said Jace. "Sometimes he carries me around like a swooning damsel." "Really?" said Kit. "No," said Jace. "I'm very heavy, especially when fully armed. What did you want to talk to me about?" "Actually, that," said Kit. "My weight?" "Weapons." Jace looked delighted. "I knew you were a Herondale. This is excellent news. What do you want to discuss? Types of swords? Two-handed versus one-handed? I have a lot of thoughts." "Having my own weapon," said Kit. "Emma has Cortana. Livvy had her sabers. Ty likes throwing knives. Julian's got crossbows. Cristina has her balisong. If I'm going to be a Shadowhunter, I should have a weapon of choice." "So you decided?" Jace said. "You're going to be a Shadowhunter?" Kit hesitated. He didn't know when exactly it had happened, but it had. He'd realized it on the beach with Shade, when he'd feared for a moment that he wasn't Nephilim after all. "What else would I be?" Jace's mouth curled up at the corners in a cheeky grin. "I never doubted you, kid." He ruffled Kit's hair. "You don't have any training, so I'd say archery and crossbows and throwing knives are out for you. I'll find you something. Something that says Herondale." "I could slay with my deadly sense of humor and wicked charm," said Kit. "Now that says Herondale." Jace looked pleased. "Christopher--can I call you Christopher?" "No," said Kit. "Christopher, family for me was never blood. It was always the family I chose. But it turns out it's nice to have someone I'm related to in this world. Someone I can tell boring family stories to. Do you know about Will Herondale? Or James Herondale?" "I don't think so," said Kit. "Excellent. Hours of your time will be ruined," said Jace. "Now I'm off to find you a weapon. Don't hesitate to come to me any time if you need advice about life or weaponry, preferably both." He saluted sharply and jogged off before Kit could ask him what you were supposed to do if someone you really cared about wanted to raise the dead in an ill-advised manner. "Probably for the best," he muttered to himself. "Kit! Kit! Pssst" someone hissed, and Kit jumped several feet in the air and spun around to see Drusilla leaning out of an upper window and gesturing at him. "You said we could talk." Kit blinked. Unfolding events had blown his agreement with Dru cleanly out of his mind. "All right. I'll come up." As he jogged up the steps toward Dru's floor, he wondered where Ty was. Kit had been used to going everywhere with him--to finding Ty in the hallway, reading, when he got up in the morning, and to going to bed only after they'd both worn themselves out researching or sneaking around the Shadow Market under the amused eye of Hypatia. Though Ty didn't care for the clamor of the Shadow Market, everyone at it seemed to love him, the extremely polite Shadowhunter boy who didn't display weapons, didn't threaten, just calmly asked if they had this or that that he was looking for. Ty was remarkable, Kit thought. The fact that tensions were escalating among Downworlders and Shadowhunters didn't seem to touch him. He was entirely focused on one thing: the spell that would bring back Livvy. He was happy when the search was going well and frustrated when it wasn't, but he didn't take his frustrations out on others. The only person he was unkind to, Kit thought, was himself. In the past days, though, since Julian and Emma had woken up, Ty had been harder to find. If he was working on something, he hadn't included Kit in it--a thought that hurt with surprising intensity. Still, they did have plans for that night, so that was something. It wasn't hard to find Dru's room: She was hovering in the doorway, dancing up and down with impatience. On catching sight of Kit, she ushered him inside and shut the door behind him, locking it for emphasis. "You're not planning on murdering me, are you?" he asked, raising both eyebrows. "Ha-ha," she said darkly, and plonked herself down on the bed. She was wearing a black T-shirt dress with a screaming face on it. Her hair had been done up in braids so tight they stuck out perpendicular to her head. It was hard to recall her dressed as the vampy businesswoman who'd tricked Barnabas Hale. "You know perfectly well what I want to talk to you about." Kit leaned his back against the desk. "Ty." "He isn't okay," Dru said. "Not like he seems. Did you know that?" Kit expected himself to say something defensive, or to deny that anything unusual was going on. Instead he slumped back against the desk, as if he'd put down a heavy weight but his legs were still shaking from carrying it. "It's like--I don't know how--people just aren't seeing it," he said, so relieved to be able to say the words that it almost hurt. "He isn't doing well. How could he be?" When Dru spoke again, her voice was gentler. "None of us are okay," she said. "Maybe that's part of it. When you're hurting, it's sometimes hard to see how other people might be hurting differently or worse." "But Helen--" "Helen doesn't know us that well." Dru tugged a lock of her hair. "She's trying," she admitted. "But how can she see how Ty's different now when she doesn't know how he was before? Mark's been caught up in faerie stuff, and Julian and Emma weren't here. If anyone will notice, now that things have settled down a little, Julian will." Kit wasn't sure how you could describe "society probably on the edge of a war" as "settled down," but he sensed the Blackthorns had a different scale for these things than he did. "I mean, in some ways, he is okay," said Kit. "I think that's what's confusing. It seems like he's functioning and doing normal, everyday stuff. He eats breakfast. He washes his clothes. It's just that the only thing getting him through all that is--" He broke off, his palms suddenly sweaty. He'd almost said it. Jesus Christ, he'd almost broken his promise to Ty just because Dru was a friendly face to talk to. "Sorry," he said into the silence. Dru was looking at him quizzically. "I didn't mean anything." She narrowed her eyes at him suspiciously. "You promised him you wouldn't say," she said. "Okay, how about I guess what he's up to, and you tell me if I'm right or wrong?" Kit shrugged wearily. There was no way she was going to guess it anyway. "He's trying to communicate with Livvy's ghost," she said. "The Thule story made me think of it. People who die, they exist in other forms. Whether it's as ghosts or in other dimensions. We just can't . . . reach them." She blinked very quickly and looked down. "Yeah," Kit heard himself say, as if at an enormous distance. "That's it. That's what he's doing." "I don't know if it's a good idea." Dru looked unhappy. "If Livvy's passed on, if she's in a good place, her spirit won't be here on earth. I mean, they say ghosts can appear sometimes briefly for something important... or if they're called in the right way...." Kit thought of Robert Lightwood's parabatai, at the side of his burning pyre. Something important. "I could try to talk to him," Dru said in a small voice. "Remind him that he still has a sister." Kit thought of the night Dru had come with them to con Barnabas. Ty had seemed lighter, happy to have her there even if he wouldn't admit it. "We're going tonight to--" No. Better not to tell her about Shade. "To get the last piece of what we need for the spell," he lied rapidly. "We're meeting down at the highway at ten. If you turn up there, you can threaten to tell on us unless we let you come with us." Dru wrinkled up her nose. "I have to be the bad guy?" "Come on," said Kit. "You'll get to boss us around. Don't tell me you won't enjoy it a little bit." She grinned. "Yeah, probably. Okay, deal. I'll see you there." Kit turned to unlock the door and let himself out. Then paused. Without looking at Dru, he said, "I've spent my whole life lying and tricking people. So why is it so hard for me to lie to this one person? To Ty?" "Because he's your friend," said Dru. "What other reason do you need?" Opening the drawer that held his paints had meaning to Julian again. Each tube of paint carried its own promise, its own personality. Tyrian red, Prussian blue, cadmium orange, manganese violet. He returned to the fabric canvas he'd left blank the night before. He dumped the paint tubes he'd selected onto the tabletop. Titanium white. Raw umber. Naples yellow. They were colors he always used to paint Emma's hair. The memory of her went through him like a knife: the way she'd looked in the doorway of her bedroom, her face white, eyelashes starred with tears. There was a horror in not being able to touch the person you loved, to kiss them or hold them, but an even worse horror in not being able to comfort them. Leaving Emma, even after she'd asked him to, had felt like wrenching himself apart: His emotions were all too new, too raw and intense. He had always sought comfort in the studio, though he had found none the night before, when trying to paint had felt like trying to speak a foreign language he'd never learned. But everything was different now. When he picked up the paintbrush, it felt like an extension of his arm. When he began to paint in long, bold strokes, he knew exactly the effect he wanted. As the images took shape, his mind quieted. The pain was still there, but he could bear it. He didn't know how long he'd been painting when the knock came on the door. It had been a long time since he'd been able to fall into the dizzy dream- state of creating; even in Thule, he'd had only a short time with the colored pencils. He placed the brushes he'd been using in a glass of water and went to see who it was. He half-expected it to be Emma--half -hoped it was Emma--but it wasn't. It was Ty. Ty had his hands in the front pockets of his white sweatshirt. His gaze flickered across Julian's face. "Can I come in?" "Sure." Julian watched Ty as he ambled around the room, glancing at the paintings, before coming to study Julian's new canvas. Ty had long wanted this room as an office or darkroom, but Julian had always held on to it stubbornly. Not that he'd kept Ty out of it. When Ty was younger, experimentation with paints and paper had kept him distracted for hours. He never drew anything concrete, but he had an excellent sense of color--not that Julian was biased. All his paintings turned out as intense swirls of interleaving pigments, so bright and bold they seemed to jump off the paper. Ty was looking at Julian's canvas. "This is Livvy's sword," he said. He didn't sound annoyed--more questioning, as if he weren't quite sure why Julian would be painting it. Julian's heart skipped a beat. "I was trying to think of what would best symbolize her." Ty touched the gold pendant at his throat. "This always makes me think of Livvy." "That's--that's a good idea." Julian leaned against the center island. "Ty," he said. "I know I haven't been here for you since Livvy died, but I'm here now." Ty had picked up an unused brush. He ran his fingers over the bristles, touching them to each fingertip as if lost in the sensation. Julian said nothing: He knew Ty was thinking. "It's not your fault," Ty said. "The Inquisitor sent you away." "Whether it was my fault or not, I was still gone," said Julian. "If you want to talk to me about anything now, I promise to listen." Ty looked up, his brief gray gaze like a light touch. "You've always been there for us, Jules. You did everything for us. You used to run the whole Institute." "It's my turn to be there for the rest of you," said Ty, and set the brush down. "I should go. I have to meet Kit." When he was gone, Julian sat down on a stool pulled up to a blank easel. He stared unseeingly ahead of him, hearing Ty's voice echo in his mind. You used to run the whole Institute. He thought of Horace, of Horace's determination to have the whole Shadowhunter world see him speak with the Unseelie King. He hadn't understood why before. Without his emotions, he hadn't been able to understand Horace's reasons. Now he did, and he knew it was even more imperative than he had believed to stop him. He thought of Arthur's old office, of the hours he'd spent there at dawn, composing and answering letters. The weight of the Institute's seal in his hand. That seal was in Aline and Helen's office now. They'd taken what they could from Arthur's office to help them with their new job. But they hadn't known about the secret compartments in Arthur's desk, and Julian hadn't been there to tell them. You used to run the whole Institute. In those compartments were the careful lists he'd kept of names--every important Downworlder, every Council member, every Shadowhunter at every Institute. He glanced at the window. He felt alive, energized--not precisely happy, but buzzing with purpose. He would finish the artwork now. Later, when everyone was asleep, his real work would begin. <|title|>Chapter 26: A Stir in the Air <|startofchapter|>Thunk. Thunk. Thunk. Emma spun and threw the balanced knives one after the other, fast: overhead, overhead, sideways. They sliced through the air and jammed point- first into the target painted on the wall, their handles trembling with kinetic force. She bent down and grabbed two more from the pile at her feet. She hadn't changed into training clothes and she was sweating in her tank top and jeans, her loose hair plastered to the back of her neck. She didn't care. It was almost as though she'd returned to the time before she'd realized she was in love with Julian. A time when she'd been full of a rage and despair she'd attributed entirely to her parents' deaths. She flung the next two knives, blades sliding through her fingers, their flight smooth and tightly controlled. Thunk. Thunk. She remembered the days when she'd thrown so many bo-shuriken that she'd made her hands split and bleed. How much of that rage had been about her parents--because a lot of it had been, she knew--and how much had been about the fact that she'd kept the doors of her awareness tightly shut, never letting herself know what she wanted, what would make her truly happy? She picked up two more knives and positioned herself facing away from the target, breathing hard. It was impossible not to think about Julian. Now that the spell was off him, she felt a desperate desire to be with him, mixed with the bitterness of regret--regret for past choices made, regret for wasted years. She and Julian had both been in denial, and look what it had cost them. If either of them had been able to acknowledge why they shouldn't be parabatai, they wouldn't be facing separation from each other. Or exile from everything they loved. Love is powerful, and the more you're together, and let yourself feel what you do, the stronger it'll be. You need to not touch each other. Not speak to each other. Try not to even think about each other. Thunk. A knife sailed over her shoulder. Thunk. Another. She turned to see the handles vibrating where they stuck out from the wall. "Nice throw." Emma spun around. Mark was leaning against the doorway, his body like a long, lean spoke in the shadows. He was wearing his gear and he looked tired. More than tired, he looked weary. It had been a while since she'd spent time with Mark alone. It was neither of their faults--there had been the separation in Idris, then Faerie and Thule --but there was another piece to it too, perhaps. There was an apprehensive sadness in Mark these days, as if he were constantly waiting to be told he had lost something. It seemed deeper than what he had carried back with him from Faerie. She picked up another knife. Held it out. "Do you want a turn?" "Very much so." He came and took the knife from her. She stepped back a little while he took aim, sighting down the line of his arm toward the target. "Do you want to talk about what's going on with Cristina?" she said hesitantly. "And... Kieran?" He let the knife go. It sank into the wall beside one of Emma's. "No," he said. "I am trying not to think about it, and I do not think discussing it will accomplish that goal." "Okay," Emma said. "Do you want to just throw knives in a silent, angry bro way together?" He cracked a slight smile. "There are other things we could discuss than my love life. Like your love life." It was Emma's turn to grab a knife. She threw it hard, viciously, and it hit the wall hard enough to crack the wood. "That sounds like about as much fun as stabbing myself in the head." "I think mundanes discuss the weather when they have nothing else to talk about," said Mark. He had gone to lift a bow and quiver down from the wall. The bow was a delicate piece of workmanship, carved with filigreed runes. "We are not mundanes." "Sometimes I wonder what we are," Emma said. "Considering I don't think the current powers that be in Alicante would like us to be Nephilim at all." Mark drew back the bow and let an arrow fly. It whipped through the air, plunging directly into the center of the target on the wall. Emma felt a twist of grim pride; people often underestimated how good a warrior Mark was. "It doesn't matter what they think," Mark said. "Raziel made us Shadowhunters. Not the Clave." Emma sighed. "What would you do if things were different? If you could do anything, be anything. If this was all over." He looked at her thoughtfully. "You always wanted to be like Jace Herondale," he said. "The greatest of all fighters. But I would like to be more like Alec Lightwood. I would like to do something important for Shadowhunters and Downworlders. For I will always be part of each world." "I can't believe you remember I always wanted to be like Jace. That's so embarrassing." "It was cute that you wanted to be such a fighter, especially when you were very small." He smiled a real smile, one that lit up his face. "I remember you and Julian when you were ten--both of you with wooden swords, and me trying to teach you not to smack each other in the head with them." Emma giggled. "I thought you were so old--fourteen!" He sobered. "I have been thinking that not everything that is strange is bad," he said. "Since I came from Faerie the way I did--it closed the gap of years between me and Julian, and me and you. I have been able to be much better friends with both of you now, rather than an older sibling, and that has been a gift." "Mark--" she began, and broke off, staring out the west-facing picture window. Something--someone--was walking up the road toward the Institute, a dark figure moving purposefully. She caught a flash of gold. "I have to go." Emma grabbed a longsword and bolted out of the training room, leaving Mark staring after her. Energy was ping-ponging through her body. She took the stairs three at a time, burst out the front doors, and crossed the grass just as the figure she'd seen reached the top of the road. The moon was bright, flooding the world with bright spears of illumination. Emma blinked away stars and gazed at Zara Dearborn, stalking toward her across the grass. Zara was fully decked out in her Centurion gear, Primi Ordines pin and all. Her hair was tightly braided around her head, her brown eyes narrowed. In her hand was a golden sword that shone like the light of dawn. Cortana. A flash of gold. Emma stiffened all over. She whipped the longsword from its scabbard, though it felt like dead weight in her hand now that she was looking at her own beloved blade. "Stop," she said. "You aren't welcome here, Zara." Zara gave her a narrow little smile. She was gripping Cortana all wrong, which blinded Emma with rage. Wayland Smith had made that blade, and now Zara had it in her sticky, incompetent hand. "Aren't you going to ask about this?" she asked, twirling the sword as if it were a toy. Emma swallowed bitter rage. "I'm not going to ask you anything except to get off our property. Now." "Really?" Zara cooed. "Your property? This is an Institute, Emma. Clave property. I know you and the Blackthorns treat it like it's yours. But it isn't. And you won't be living here much longer." Emma tightened her grip on her longsword. "What do you mean?" "You were sent a message," Zara said. "Don't pretend you don't know about it. Most of the other Institutes have shown up in Idris to prove their support. Not you guys, though." She twirled Cortana inexpertly. "You haven't even replied to the summons. And the names in your registry were a joke. Did you think we were too stupid to get it?" "Yes," Emma said. "Also, it seems like it took you a week to figure it out, at least. Who got it in the end? Manuel?" Zara flushed angrily. "You think it's cute, not taking anything seriously? Not taking the Downworlder threat seriously? Samantha's dead. She hurled herself out the window of the Basilias. Because of your faerie friend--" "I already know what really happened," Emma said, with a feeling of immense sadness for Samantha. "Kieran pulled Samantha out of the pool. He tried to help her. You can twist things and twist things, Zara, but you can't just make facts whatever you want them to be. You stood around and laughed when Samantha fell into that water. And the cruelty she saw--the terrible pain she'd caused--that was because of you and what you made her do. And that's the truth." Zara stared at her, her chest rising and falling rapidly. "You don't deserve Cortana," Emma said. "You don't deserve to have it in your hand." "I don't deserve it?" Zara hissed. "You were given it because you're a Carstairs! That's all! I worked and worked to get respect, and people just gave it to you like you're special because your parents died in the Dark War. A lot of people died in the Dark War. You're not special at all." She took a step toward Emma, Cortana shaking in her grip. "Don't you get it? None of this is yours. Not the Institute. Not this sword. Not the Blackthorns, who aren't your family. Not the reputation for being a great warrior. You didn't earn any of it." "How lucky for you that your reputation as a bigoted asshole is totally justified," said Emma. Zara's flush had faded. Her eyes glittered angrily. "You have twenty-four hours to come to Idris and swear loyalty to the Cohort. If you are even five minutes late you will be considered deserters and I will strike down every deserter myself. Starting with you." Emma raised her sword. "Then strike me down now." Zara took a step backward. "I said you had twenty-four hours." Rage sizzled through Emma's nerves. "And I said strike me down now." She jabbed the sword toward Zara; it caught the edge of Zara's cloak and sliced through it. "You came here. You challenged me. You threatened my family." Zara gaped. Emma suspected Zara had rarely ever had to engage in a fight that wasn't on her terms. "You're a liar, Zara," she said, advancing with her sword drawn. Zara stumbled back, almost tripping over the grass. "You've never accomplished anything. You've taken credit for what other people do and used it to prop yourself up, but people can see through you. You pick on those who have less power than you to make yourself look strong. You're a bully and a thief and a coward." Zara snarled, raising Cortana. "I am not a coward!" "So fight me!" Emma swung her sword; Zara barely got Cortana up in the air and it clanged hard against Emma's blade, the awkward angle turning Zara's wrist back on itself. She yelped in pain and Emma slammed Cortana again--it felt beyond wrong to be fighting against Cortana, as if the world had been turned inside out. She ought to feel sympathy for Zara's pain, Emma thought. But she didn't. She felt only a savage anger as she drove the other girl panting and gasping back and back across the tufted grass until they were at the edge of the bluffs, until the sea was below them. Zara dug her heels in then and fought back, but when she raised Cortana and wheeled it through the air at Emma, the blade turned aside at the last moment, seeming to bend like a live thing in her hand. Zara shrieked, almost overbalancing; Emma kicked out and swept Zara's legs out from under her. Zara thumped to the ground, her body half-dangling over the edge of the bluff. Emma stalked toward her, longsword in hand. A surge of power went through her like electricity coursing through a wire. She felt almost dizzy with it, as if she were rising above Zara to an immense height--looking down at her with the indifference of an avenging angel, a being of light gifted with power so great it had rendered them nearly inhuman. I could bring my blade down and cut her in half. I could take Cortana back. She raised her longsword. She could see herself as if from the outside, a massive figure towering over Zara. Their runes began to bum like fire, as if they had fire in their veins instead of blood. People said that the blades of those who fought them shattered in their hands. Black lines spread over their bodies and they became monstrous--physically monstrous. Emma stumbled back, Diana's voice echoing in her head. She stood without moving as Zara, gasping, scrambled back from the edge of the cliff, rolling onto her knees. Emma's vision of herself as an avenging angel was gone. In its place, a cool and reasonable voice whispered in the back of her head, unmistakably Julian's, telling her that Horace Dearborn surely knew where his daughter was, would know who to blame when she went missing, that either hurting Zara or taking Cortana would bring the Clave down on the Los Angeles Institute. "Get up," Emma said, her voice edged with contempt. Zara scrabbled to her feet. "And get out of here." Zara was panting, her face smeared with dirt. "You little pervert," she hissed, all pretense at smirking gone. "My father told me about you and your parabatai --you're disgusting--I guess you want to be like Clary and Jace, huh? Wanting what's forbidden? And nasty?" Emma rolled her eyes. "Zara, Clary and Jace weren't related." "Yeah, well, they thought they were, and that's the same!" Zara screamed, a tower of howling illogic. "And they're dead now! That's what'll happen to you and Julian! We'll leave your corpses on the battlefield and the crows will pick out your eyes, I'll make sure of it--" "What battlefield?" Emma said quietly. Zara blanched. Her mouth worked, spittle flecking her lips. At last she raised Cortana between herself and Emma, as if she were warding off a vampire with a crucifix. "Twenty-four hours," she breathed. "If you're not at the gates of Alicante then, there won't be a single one of you left alive." She turned and stalked away. It took every ounce of Emma's self-control not to follow her. She forced herself to turn away from Zara. To turn back to the Institute. She raced across the lawn and up the stairs. By the time she reached the front door, her anger was turning into anticipation: She would need to talk to Julian. She had to tell him about Zara. She yanked the front door open, already picturing what Julian would say. He would tell her not to worry. He would have an idea about what they should do. He might even make her laugh-- There was a flare of sharp pain against her arm. Her rune. She gasped and flinched; she was in the entryway of the Institute. It was deserted, thank the Angel. She pulled up the sleeve of her shirt. The parabatai rune there glowed on her upper arm like a brand, red against her skin. She sagged back against the wall. If even thinking of Julian did this, then how much time did they have left? How much time before she had to go to Magnus and have her runes stripped forever? Slumped against the wall of the Gard cell, Diego held his brother in his arms. Jaime had fallen asleep at some point during the night before, or at least Diego assumed it was night--it was hard to tell when there was no way to measure the passage of time except for meals, and those were served irregularly. There was only sleeping, eating, and trying to conserve Jaime's strength. Jaime breathed against him, low irregular breaths; his eyes were closed. Some of Diego's earliest memories were of holding his brother. When he was five and Jaime was three, he had carried him everywhere. He'd been afraid that otherwise Jaime, toddling around on his short little legs, would miss out on all the things in the world Diego wanted him to see. Sometimes at the end of a long day, his baby brother would fall asleep in his arms, and Diego would carry him to bed and tuck him in. Diego had always taken care of his brother, and the helplessness he felt now filled him with rage and despair. For so long, he had thought of Jaime as a little boy, quick and mischievous. Even when he'd run off with the Eternidad, it seemed like another of his games, one where he was always slipping out of trouble and playing tricks. But in these past few days, as Jaime had grown weaker but refused to speak a word to Zara about the heirloom, Diego had seen the steel beneath his brother's playful attitude, his commitment to their family and their cause. He kissed Jaime on the top of the head; his black hair was ragged, messy and dirty. Diego didn't care. He was filthy himself. "Siempre estuve orgulloso de ti," he said. "I've always been proud of you, too," Jaime murmured without opening his eyes. Diego gave a rough chuckle of relief. "You're awake." Jaime didn't move. His brown cheeks were red with fever, his lips chapped and bleeding. "Yes. I'm awake, and I'm going to hold this over you forever." Forever. Most likely neither of them had forever. Diego thought of the heirloom, its optimistic infinity symbol looping over and over, promising a never-ending future. Etemidad. There was nothing to say. He stroked Jaime's hair in silence and listened to his brother breathe. Every breath a struggle, in and out like rough water through a broken dam. Diego's desperation for a stele was like a silent scream, rising in the back of his throat. They both looked up as a familiar clanking sound announced the arrival of what Diego guessed was breakfast. Surely it had to be morning. He blinked at the dim light coming from the open door of the prison. A figure came closer to their cell; it was Anush Joshi, carrying a tray. Diego looked at Anush without speaking. He'd given up begging any of the guards for help. If they were monstrous enough to sit back and watch Jaime slowly die, then there was no point asking them for anything. It only made Jaime feel worse. Anush knelt down with the tray. He wore the livery of the Council guard, his dark hair tangled, his eyes red-rimmed. He set the tray on the ground. Diego cleared his throat. "Jaime's too sick to eat that," he said. "He needs fresh fruit. Juice. Anything with calories." Anush hesitated. For a moment Diego felt a flicker of hope. But Anush only pushed the tray slowly through the gap in the bottom of the door. "I think he'll want to eat this," he said. He stood up and hurried away, closing the prison door behind him. Keeping Jaime cradled against him, Diego pulled the tray toward himself with one hand. A jolt of surprise went through him. Lying beside the usual bowls of gruel was a stele, and a note. Diego seized them both up with a shaking hand. The note read: You were the only one who was hind to me at the Scholomance. I'm leaving Idris and the guards. I know there's a resistance out there. I'm going to find it. Take care of your brother. "What's that?" Kit called; he could see Ty coming down the dirt road toward the highway, a witchlight rune-stone in his hand. It cast him into shadow, but the small crouched creature on his shoulder was still visible. "It's a wood rat," said Ty. The witchlight blinked off as he joined Kit by the side of the highway. He was all in black, with the glimmer of Livvy's pendant at the collar of his shirt. Kit, who was not a fan of rats, eyed the animal on Ty's shoulder with some wariness. It didn't look like the usual sort of rat: It had rounded ears and a furry face and tail. It appeared to be nibbling on a shelled nut. "They're harmless," Ty said. "They like to collect things for their nests-- bottlecaps and leaves and acorns." The wood rat finished its snack and looked at Ty expectantly. "I don't have any more," he said, plucked the rat off his shoulder, and set it down gently. It scampered off into the bushes by the roadside. "So," Ty said, dusting off his hands. "Should we go over everything we have for the spell?" Kit's stomach knotted. He was half-wondering where Dru was, half- anxious about what Shade was going to do. If the warlock planned to stop Ty, he was certainly waiting until the last minute. "Sure," Kit said, pulling the list out of his pocket. "Incense from the heart of a volcano." "Got it at the Shadow Market. Check." "Chalk powdered from the bones of a murder victim." "Same." "Blood, hair, and bone of the person to be brought over," Kit said, a slight catch in his voice. Ty's pale face was like a half-moon in the darkness. "I have a lock of Livvy's hair and one of her baby teeth." "And the blood?" said Kit, gritting his teeth. It seemed beyond grim to be talking about pieces of Livvy, as if she'd been a doll and not a living, breathing person. Ty touched the pendant at his throat, still stained with rust. "Blood." Kit forced a noise of recognition through his tight throat. "And myrrh grown by faeries--" A twig snapped. Both of them swung around, Ty's hand going to his waist. Kit, realizing, put a hand on Ty's arm a moment before Drusilla stepped out of the shadows. She held up her hands. "Whoa. It's just me." "What are you doing here?" Ty's voice crackled with anger. "I was looking out my window. I saw you walking down toward the highway. I wanted to make sure everything was okay." Kit was impressed. Dru really was a good liar. Face open and honest, voice steady. His dad would have given her a gold star. "Why were you talking about faeries and myrrh and all that other stuff?" she went on. "Are you doing a spell?" Ty looked a little sick. Guilt hit Kit with the force of a whip. Ty wasn't good at lying, and he didn't do well with surprise changes to plans he'd made. "Go back to the house, Dru," he said. Dru glared at him. "I won't. You can't make me." Kit wondered if any of this was still playacting. "If you send me back, I'll tell everyone you're doing weird spell stuff with evil chalk," said Dru. Ty flushed with annoyance. Kit pulled Ty toward him by his sleeve and whispered in his ear, "Better let her come with us. If we don't, and she tells, we could get caught or get Shade in trouble." Ty started to shake his head. "But she can't--" "We'll make her wait outside the cave," Kit said. He'd realized they would have to do that anyway; the first words Shade said would undermine the careful half-truths Kit had told Dru. Ty exhaled. "Fine." Dru clapped her hands together. "Woo-hoo!" They crossed the highway together, and Dru took off her shoes when they reached the sand. It was a soft night, the air tickling their skin, the ocean breathing in low, soft exhalations, rushing the tide up the beach. Kit felt a sort of ache at the center of him at how beautiful it all was, mixed with bitterness at his father for never bringing him here. Another truth denied to him: His city was beautiful. As were other things. Ty kicked his way along the edge of the sand, his hands in his pockets. The wind lifted his hair, and the strands clung to his cheekbones like streaks of dark paint. He was purposely ignoring Drusilla, who was playing tag with the tide, running up and down the beach with her hair askew, the cuffs of her jeans wet with salt water. She looked over at Kit and winked, a conspiratorial wink that said: Were helping Ty together. Kit hoped that was true. His stomach was in painful knots by the time they made it to the cave entrance. Ty stopped at the dark hole in the stone bluff, shaking his head at his sister. "You can't come with us," he said. Dru opened her mouth to protest, but Kit gave her a meaningful look. "It's better if you wait outside," he said, enunciating each word clearly so she'd know he meant it. Dru flopped down in the sand, looking woebegone. "Okay. Fine." Ty ducked into the cave. Kit, after an apologetic look at Dru, was about to follow when Ty emerged again, carrying an angry gray ball of fluff. Dru's face broke into a smile. "Church!" "He can keep you company," Ty said, and put the cat into his sister's lap. Dru looked at him with shining eyes, but Ty was already ducking back into the cave. Kit followed, though he couldn't help but wonder if Ty had ever noticed how much Dru looked up to him. He couldn't help but think that if he had a little sibling who admired him, he would have spent all his time showing off. Ty was different, though. The moment they entered the tunnel, Kit could hear scratchy music-- something like the sound of a song that hadn't downloaded properly. When they entered the main cave, they found Shade twirling slowly around the room to the sound of a mournful tune playing on a gramophone. "Non, rien de rien" Shade sang along. "Je ne regrette rien. Ni le bien qu'on m'a fait, ni le mal --" Kit cleared his throat. Shade didn't seem the least embarrassed. He ceased his twirling, glared, and snapped his fingers. The music vanished. "I don't recall inviting you to come tonight," the warlock said. "I might have been busy." "We sent a note," said Kit. Shade beetled his white brows at him and glanced down at the scratched wooden table. An empty vial sat on it, the kind they'd used to distribute the Lake Lyn water. Kit was pleased to see Shade had drunk the cure, although a little worried he might be hallucinating. Ty took an eager step forward. "We have everything. All the ingredients for the spell." Shade's gaze flicked to Kit quickly and then away. He looked grim. "All of them?" Ty nodded. "Incense, blood, and bone--" "An object from another world?" "We have that, too," said Kit as Ty drew the folded letter from his pocket. "It's from a place called Thule." Shade stared at the letter, the color draining from his face, leaving it the sickly hue of lettuce. "Thule?" "You know that world?" Ty said. "Yes." Shade's voice was toneless. "I know many other worlds. It is one of the worst." Kit could see that Ty was puzzled: He hadn't expected Shade to react this way. "But we have everything," he said again. "All the ingredients. You said you would give us a power source." "Yes, I did say that." Shade sat down at the rickety wooden table. "But I won't." Ty blinked disbelievingly. "But you said--" "I know what I said," Shade snapped. "I never intended you to find all the ingredients, you foolish child. I thought you would give up. You didn't." He threw his arms into the air. "Don't you understand this would be the worst thing you could possibly do? That its effects would follow you all your life? Death is the end for a reason." "But you're immortal." Ty's eyes were huge and pale gray, silver coins against his stark face. "I have a long life, but I won't live forever," said Shade. "We all have the life that's been allotted to us. If you pull Livvy to you from where she belongs, you leave a hole in the universe to be filled by black sorrow and miserable grief. That's not something you can walk away from unscathed. Not now. Not ever." "So you lied to us," Ty said. Shade stood up. "I did. I would again. I will never help you to do this thing, do you understand me? And I will spread the word. No warlock will help you. They will face my wrath if they do." Ty's hands were working themselves into fists, his fingers scrabbling at his palms. "But Livvy--" "Your sister is dead," said Shade. "I understand your grief, Tiberius. But you cannot break the universe to get her back." Ty turned and ran for the tunnel. Kit stared at Shade. "That was too brutal," he said. "You didn't have to talk to him like that." "I did," Shade said. He slumped back into his chair. "Go after your friend. He needs you now, and God knows I don't." Kit backed up, then spun and ran, following Ty's witchlight. He spilled out onto the beach to find Ty already there, bent over and gasping for breath. Dru leaped to her feet, spilling a meowing Church onto the ground. "What's happened? What's wrong?" Kit put his hand on Ty's back, between his shoulder blades. He was a little startled to find Ty's back more solid and lightly muscled than he would have thought. He always thought of Ty as fragile, but he didn't feel fragile. He felt like iron hammered thin: flexible but unbreakable. Kit remembered hearing somewhere that it was soothing to rub circles on someone's back, so he did that. Ty's breaths began to regulate. "It isn't going to work," Kit said, looking firmly at Dru over Ty's back. "We aren't going to be able to see Livvy's ghost." "I'm sorry," Dru whispered. "I would have liked to have seen her too." Ty straightened up. His eyes were wet; he rubbed them fiercely. "No--I'm sorry, Dru." Kit and Dru exchanged a startled look. It hadn't occurred to Kit before that Ty might feel not just disappointed but as if he had let others down. "Don't be sorry," Dru said. "Some things aren't possible." She put her hand out, a little shyly. "If you feel bad, I'll watch movies all night with you in the TV room. I can make cookies, too. That always helps." There was a long pause. Ty reached out to take Dru's hand. "That would be nice. Kit felt a wash of relief so enormous he almost staggered. Ty had remembered he had a sister. Surely that was something. He had expected much worse: a disappointment he couldn't calculate, a hurt so deep nothing he could have said would touch it. "Come on." Dru tugged on Ty's hand, and together they started back toward the Institute. Kit followed, pausing as they began to scramble up the first of the rock walls that blocked the way across the beach. As Ty and Dru climbed, he looked back over his shoulder and saw Shade watching them from the darkness of his cave entrance. He shook his head at Kit once before vanishing back into the shadows. The wind was blowing from the desert; Cristina and Mark sat near the statues Arthur Blackthorn had imported from England and placed among the cacti of the Santa Monica Mountains. The sand was still warm from the sunlight of the day, and soft under Mark, like the deep pile of a carpet. In the Wild Hunt, he and Kieran would have found this a very fine bed. "I am worried," Cristina said, "that we hurt Kieran earlier today." She was barefoot in the sand, wearing a short lace dress and gold earrings. Looking at her made Mark's heart hurt, so he glanced up at the statue of Virgil, his old friend of frustrated nights. Virgil stared back impassively, without advice. "His worries are my worries too," said Mark. "It is difficult to ease his fears when I cannot ease my own." "You don't have to ease other people's fears to share yours, Mark." Cristina was playing with her medallion, her long fingers caressing the etching of Raziel. Mark wanted badly to kiss her; instead, he dug his fingers into the sand. "I could say the same to you," he said. "You have been tense as a bowstring all day. You are fearful too." She sighed and poked his leg lightly with her bare foot. "Fine. You tell me, and I'll tell you." "I have been worried about my sister," Mark said. Cristina looked puzzled. "That isn't what I thought you would say." "My sister was exiled because of her faerie blood," said Mark. "You know the story--all of it. You know it better than most." He couldn't help it; he put his hand over hers in the sand. "All of my family has suffered because we have faerie parentage. Our loyalty has always been questioned. How much worse would it be for her and for Aline if I were with Kieran and he were the King of the Unseelie Court? It sounds so strange to say, and so selfish--" "It is not selfish." They both looked up; Kieran stood in the space between two statues, pale as a statue himself. His hair was black raven wings in the darkness, which washed all the blue from its color. "You are worried about your family," said Kieran. "That is not selfish. It is what I have learned from you and from Julian. To want to protect others more than you want your own happiness--" He glanced sideways. "Not that I wish to assume that being with me would bring you happiness." Mark was speechless, but Cristina stretched out her arms. Gold bracelets shimmered against her brown skin as she beckoned to Kieran. "Come and sit with us." Kieran was also barefoot; faeries often were. He prowled like a cat through the sand, his steps kicking up no dust, his movements silent as he sank to his knees opposite Cristina and Mark. "It would make me happy," Mark said. "But as you said--" He took a handful of sand and let it sift through his fingers. "There are other considerations." "I might not become King," said Kieran. "But you might," said Cristina. "I, too, am afraid. I spoke to my mother today. Someone had said something nasty to her about me. That I was involved with faeries. That I was a--a dirty girl, besmirched by Downworlders. You know I don't care what anyone says about me," she added hastily. "And my mother could withstand it as well, but--it is a bad time to be a Rosales. Our history of friendship with faeries has already brought us trouble. Jaime and Diego are in jail. What if I bring further trouble on them?" "Now I will tell you something selfish," Kieran said. "I was afraid you both regretted what happened last night. That you both regretted--me." Mark and Cristina looked at each other. She shook her head, the wind lifting her dark hair. "There is no regret," said Mark. "Only--" "I know," Kieran said. "I knew it when Gwyn came and told me I should be King. I knew what it would mean. Even what it would mean for me to be involved in the Court at all, as it seems I must be. The Clave wants to control access to the Courts. They always have. For two Shadowhunters they do not control to have the ear of the King would be anathema to them." "But, Kieran--" Cristina said. "I am not a fool," Kieran said. "I know when something is impossible." His eyes were shields of metal: one tarnished, one new. "I have always been an unquiet soul. In my father's Court, and then in the Hunt, I raged and stormed inside my heart." He bent his head. "I knew when I met Mark that I had found the person who gave my soul peace. I did not think I would find that in anyone else again, but I have. If I could just sit here quietly with both of you before this gathering storm, it would mean a great deal to me." "And to me," Cristina said. She held out her small hand and took one of Kieran's gently. He raised his head as Mark took the other, and Mark and Cristina joined hands as well, completing the circle. None of them spoke: There was no need. It was enough to be together. Emma still felt jittery when she walked into the kitchen in the morning, as if she'd drunk too many cups of the coffee she despised. The hammer beat of Diana's words in Thule echoed in her head. She hadn't gone to Julian last night to tell him about Zara but had reluctantly woken up Helen and Aline to warn them instead. Then she'd headed back to the training room, in the hopes that kicking and punching and falling onto the hard mats on the floor would make her forget about the burning of her rune. About the parabatai of Thule. About the words of the Queen. Later, when she'd fallen asleep, she'd dreamed about the parabatai rune in the Silent City, and about blood on the hilt of Cortana, and a ruined city where monstrous giants stalked the horizon. She still felt uneasy, as if she were half-trapped in nightmares. She was glad to see the kitchen full of people. In fact, there were far too many to fit into the small eating area. Someone had had the brilliant idea of supplementing the existing table with an overturned weapons crate from the training room, and folding chairs had been dragged in from all over the house. She'd been worried the morning would be grim as everyone rushed around getting ready to invade Alicante. She couldn't help but feel resentful that she and Julian wouldn't be going. It was their fight too. Besides, she needed the distraction. The last thing she wanted was to be left in the Institute with Julian and minimal supervision. But the assembled group seemed anything but grim. If not for the space where Livvy should have been, the scene was almost perfect--Helen and Aline smiling at the kids over their coffee mugs. Mark between Kieran and Cristina, as if Mark had never been torn away from his family in the first place. Jace and Clary visiting the way the family had never really been able to have casual visitors when Arthur was in charge. Kit being the missing piece they had never known Ty needed, stealing a potato from Ty's plate and making him smile. Diana radiating her steady calm, bringing a level head to a family prone to dramatics. Even Kieran, who seemed to make both Mark and Cristina happier when he was around, had folded into the group at last: He was showing Tavvy and Dru the joys of dunking strawberries in maple syrup. And Julian, of course, standing over the kitchen range, flipping pancakes with the ease of an expert. "One pancake at a time, Tavvy," Helen was saying. "Yes, I know you can get three in your mouth, but that doesn't mean you should." Emma's eyes met Julian's. She saw the tension in his shoulders, his mouth, as he looked at her. Be normal, she thought. This is a happy, ordinary meal with family. "You made pancakes?" she said, keeping her tone cheerful. "What brought that on?" "Sometimes when you start a war, you want to make pancakes," Julian said, slipping two pancakes onto a plate and holding it out to Emma. Jace choked on his toast. "What did you say, Julian?" Julian glanced up at the clock that hung over the kitchen range. He flicked off the gas burner and began to calmly untie his apron. "They should be getting here any moment," he said. "They should what?" Diana put her fork down. "Julian, what are you talking about?" Tavvy was standing up on a wobbly chair, his face pressed to the window. He made an excited squeaking noise. "Who are all the people coming up the road, Jules?" Kit and Ty immediately jumped to their feet and scrambled for a window view. "I see faeries--" Ty said. "I think those are werewolves--those black cars have to be vampires--" "And Shadowhunters," said Kit. "So many Shadowhunters--" "The Sanctuary's almost ready," said Julian, throwing down a dish towel. "Unless someone else wants to do it, I'll go downstairs and greet our guests." Jace stood up. Clary looked up at him in concern: His golden eyes were flat with anger. "I'm not going to ask you a second time, Julian Blackthorn," he said, and his usually amused voice had no amusement in it at all. "What did you do?" Julian leaned his hip against the counter. Emma realized with a shock that though he did look much younger, he was just as tall as Jace. "Remember when you said my coalition idea was a bad one because we couldn't trust other Shadowhunters to be telling us the truth about their loyalties?" "Vividly," said Jace. "But I gather you invited everyone to a war council anyway?" "They're here right now?" Clary sputtered. "But--I'm wearing a T-shirt that says 'Unicorn Power'--" "There are no such things as unicorns," Jace said. "I know," Clary said. "That's why it's funny." "To return to the issue of betrayal--" Jace began. "What if I told you I expected betrayal?" said Julian. "In fact, that I was counting on it? That it was part of my plan?" "What plan?" saidjace. "I always have a plan," said Julian calmly. Dru lifted her coffee cup. "It's great to have you back, Jules. I missed your lunatic schemes." Helen was on her feet now. Aline appeared to be trying not to giggle. "How did you invite them all here?" Helen said. "How would you even have gotten in touch with so many Downworlders and Nephilim, and so quickly?" "I corresponded with them all for years," Julian said. "I know how to send fire-messages to warlocks and Shadowhunters, and acorn messages to Faerie, and the telephone numbers of every important vamp and werewolf. I knew how to reach the Downworlder-Shadowhunter Alliance. I had to know those things. For five years, it was my job." "But didn't you usually write to them as Arthur, before?" said Helen, clearly worried. "Who did you pretend to be this time?" "I wrote as myself," said Julian. "I know these people. I know their personalities. I know which of them will be on our side. I've been the Head of the Institute here for years. I called on my allies, because it's been my job to know who my allies are." His voice was quiet, but firm. There was nothing disrespectful in what he'd said, but Emma knew what he meant: I've been a diplomat for years now, unknown and unacknowledged. But that doesn't mean I wasn't skilled at it. I've put those skills to use--whether you like it or not. "We can't fight the Cohort alone," he added. "They're part of us. Part of our government. They're not an outside threat like Sebastian was. We need these allies. You'll see." And then he looked at Emma, as if he couldn't help it. The message in his eyes was clear. Though she was reeling from the shock of what he'd done, he was hoping for her approval. As he always had. She felt a burning pulse through her parabatai rune. She winced, glanced down at her left arm: Her skin felt hot and tight, but the rune looked normal. It had just been a look, she thought. That was all. "I'll help finish setting up the Sanctuary for the meeting," she said. "We'll need chairs--" Kieran got to his feet, pushing sea-blue hair behind his ears. "I will also help," he said. "I thank you on behalf of my people for calling Downworlders to the table as equals. You are right. None of us can do this alone." Diana stood up. "I will send a message to Gwyn," she said. "I know he will be pleased to come, and you will have the Wild Hunt on your side." It was Cristina's turn to rise. "Did you reach out to the Mexico City Institute?" "Yes," said Julian. "Your mother said she'd be pleased to attend." Cristina looked alarmed. "I have to go change my clothes," she said, and fled. The younger Blackthorns watched with wide eyes as Jace held up his hand. Emma tensed. Jace was a powerful Shadowhunter--not just physically but politically. He and Clary could upset every facet of this plan if they wanted. "Did you invite Magnus and Alec?" he said. "Do they know our plans have changed?" Our plans. Emma began to relax. "Of course," said Julian. "I invited everyone I thought would be on our side. And I told everyone I invited they could reach out to others they trusted." "This is probably a bad idea," Jace said. "Like, a record-breakingly bad idea. Like a go-down-in-history bad idea. But--" Clary bounced to her feet. "What he means is, we're in," she said. "We love bad ideas." "That's true," Jace admitted, a smile breaking over his face. Suddenly he looked seventeen again. Aline was the last to rise. "Technically, this is my Institute," she said. "We do what I say." She paused. "And I do what Helen wants. What do you want, baby?" Helen smiled. "I want a war council," she said. "Let's get ready." <|title|>Chapter 27: Far and Free <|startofchapter|>They Streamed in through the open doors of the Sanctuary, one after another: Downworlders and Shadowhunters in a seemingly never- ending cascade. First came the vampires with their paper-white faces and cold elegance, enchanted black umbrellas held aloft as they took the few steps from their tinted-window cars to the Sanctuary doors, eager to escape the sun. Emma recognized Lily Chen among them, on the arm of a tall vampire with dreadlocks. A gaggle of blond Swedish vampires came in chatting with the Lindquists, who ran the Stockholm Institute. There were werewolves from all over the world: Luke Garroway, scruffy and bearded in his flannel jacket, Clary's mother, Jocelyn, at his side. Werewolves in kilts and hanboks and qipaos. Maia Roberts and Bat Velasquez --Emma felt a pang, thinking of the other version of them in Thule: still together, still hand in hand. There were warlocks, too, more than Emma had ever seen in one place. Catarina Loss, blue-skinned and white-haired: She marched in with Tessa and Jem, wearing nurse's scrubs, and looked around her thoughtfully. Her eyes lit on Kit, and she gazed at him with a quiet recognition that he, absorbed in talking to Ty, didn't notice. Hypatia Vex, with her bronze hair and dark skin, regal and curious. Warlocks with bat's wings, with hooves and gills and rainbow eyes, with delicate antennae and curving stag's horns. A bat-faced woman who went up to Cristina and began muttering in Spanish. A dark-skinned warlock with a white mark on his cheek in the shape of a spiderweb. And there were Shadowhunters. Emma had seen many Shadowhunters gathered together before--she'd been to quite a few Council meetings--but it was gratifying to see how many had answered Julian's call. He stood at the front of the room, where the Blackthorns and their friends had hastily assembled a long table. A rolled-up banner hung on the wall behind it. Julian leaned calmly against the table, but Emma could sense the tension running through him like electrical lines as the Shadowhunters began to file into the Sanctuary. Julie Beauvale and Beatriz Mendoza, their parabatai runes glimmering on their forearms. Marisol Garza, wearing white in memory of Jon Cartwright. Magnus and Alec had just arrived with Maryse and their kids, and were standing by the door opposite Aline and Helen, greeting the Downworlders while the two women greeted the Shadowhunters. Kadir Safar of the New York Conclave gave Diana a somber nod before going to speak with Maryse, who was dandling little blue Max on her lap while Rafe ran around them both in circles. The Romeros had come from Argentina, the Pederosos from Brazil, the Keos from Cambodia, and the Rosewains from Northern England. A dark- haired, petite woman darted over to Cristina and hugged her tightly. Cristina's mom! Emma had an urge to bow in acknowledgment of the woman who had named Perfect Diego. "It's cool to see the Alliance in action," said Mark, who had been helping the others set up rows of chairs. He had put on a somber dark suit jacket in an attempt to look more serious. Like the careful arrangement of the food at the meeting the other day, the small gesture made Emma's heart spark with tenderness. There were many ways to serve your family, she thought. Julian's way was in large and passionate gestures; Mark's were smaller and quieter, but meaningful just the same. "Alec seems to know every Downworlder in the place." It was true--Alec was greeting a werewolf girl who spoke in excitable French and asked him something about Rafael; a tall, dark-haired vampire wearing a T-shirt with Chinese characters on it slapped him on the back, and Lily and Maia darted over to confer with him in low voices. Mark suddenly straightened up. Emma followed his gaze and saw that several faeries had come into the room. She laid her hand on Mark's arm, wondering if he remembered the last time he had been in this Sanctuary, when the Wild Hunt had returned him to his family. Kieran had turned around--he had been speaking with Julian in a low voice--and was staring as well: Gwyn had come in, of course, which everyone expected, but following him were several others. Among the dryads and pixies and nixies Emma recognized several piskies, the Fair Folk she and Julian had encountered in Cornwall. Behind them came a tall phouka in a justice for kaelie T-shirt, and after him, a woman in a long green cloak, her face hidden but a bit of white-blond hair escaping nonetheless. Emma turned to Mark. "It's Nene." "I must speak with her." Mark gave Emma's shoulder a pat and vanished across the room to greet his aunt. Emma caught sight of both Kieran and Cristina watching him, though Cristina had been firmly captured by her mother and clearly wasn't going anywhere. Emma glanced over at Julian again. He had moved behind the table and was standing with his arms at his sides. Helen and Aline had joined him behind the table as well. The rest of the family was clustered in a group of chairs at the left of the room, Kit and Ty together, Dru with her hand on Tavvy's shoulder, turning around to squint at a figure who'd just come into the Sanctuary. It was Cameron. He was alone, slouching a little as if he hoped no one would see him, though his bright red hair was like a beacon. Emma couldn't help herself; she darted over to him. He looked surprised as she bore down on him and caught his hands in hers. "Thank you for coming, Cameron," she said. "Thank you for everything." "The rest of my family doesn't know," he said. "They're pretty much--" "On the Cohort's side, I know," said Emma. "But you're different. You're a good guy. I know that for sure now, and I'm sorry if I ever hurt you in the past." Cameron looked even more alarmed. "I don't think we should get back together," he said. "Oh, definitely not," said Emma. "I'm just glad you're okay." She glanced over at Julian, who was waving and giving Cameron a thumbs-up from behind the table. Looking terrified, Cameron bolted for the safety of the seats. Someday maybe she'd tell him about Thule. Maybe. She waved to Simon and Isabelle as they came in, holding hands. Isabelle made an immediate beeline for her mother and Max. Simon regarded Kieran with a look of surprised recognition before crossing the room to talk to Vivianne Penhallow, the dean of Shadowhunter Academy. Sometimes Emma wondered if Simon had enjoyed his time at the Academy. She wondered if she would like it there. But there was no point thinking about the future now. She glanced over at Julian. The wide doors were still open and a breeze was passing through, and for a moment Emma saw Livvy--not as she had been in Thule, but the Livvy of this world--like a vision or a hallucination, standing behind Julian, her hand on his shoulder, her ethereal hair rising in the wind. Emma closed her eyes, and when she opened them again, Julian was alone. As if he could feel her gaze, Julian glanced at Emma. He looked incredibly young to her for a moment, as if he were still the twelve-year-old boy who had hiked a mile back and forth every week from the highway, dragging heavy bags, to make sure his brothers and sisters had groceries. If only you had told me, she thought. If only I had known when you needed help. She couldn't be Julian's parabatai, or his partner, now. She couldn't smile at him as Clary smiled at Jace, or put a reassuring hand against his back the way Alec did to Magnus, or take his hand as Aline had taken Helen's. But she could be his ally. She could stand with the others at the front of the room and face the crowd, at least. She began to cross the room toward the table. Mark reached Nene at the same time that Helen did. Their aunt seemed agitated, her long pale fingers working at the emerald material of her cloak. Her eyes darted between them as they approached, and she gave a small, stiff nod. "Miach," she said. "Alessa. It is good to see you well." "Aunt Nene," Helen said. "It is good of you to come, and--is everything all right?" "I was ordered to remain at Court after the Queen returned from Unseelie," said Nene. "She has been furious and untrusting since that time. For me to be here, I disobeyed a direct order of my monarch's." She sighed. "It is possible I can never return to the Court." "Nene." Helen looked horrified. "You didn't have to come." "I wished to," Nene said. "I have lived in fear of the Queen all my life. I lived in fear of what I wished for--to depart the Court and live as one of the wild fey. But you, my niece and nephew--you live between worlds, and you are not afraid." She smiled at them, and Mark wanted to point out that he was afraid half the time. He didn't. "I will do what I can to help you here," she said. "Your cause is righteous. It is time for the Cold Peace to come to an end." Mark, who hadn't realized Julian had been promising an end to the Cold Peace, made a slight choking noise. "Adaon," he said. "I know Helen wrote to you of him. He saved our lives--" "I wished to bring you the news myself. Adaon is well," said Nene. "He has become something of a favorite of the Seelie Queen and has risen quickly in the Court." Mark blinked. He hadn't been expecting this. "A favorite of the Seelie Queen?" "I think Mark wants to know if he's the Seelie Queen's lover," said Helen, with her usual bluntness. "Oh, most likely. It's quite surprising," said Nene. "Fergus is much put out, as he was the favorite once." "Greetings, Nene," said Kieran, striding up to them. He had changed out of his jeans and looked every bit the faerie prince, as Mark had first seen him, in creamy linen and fawn breeches. His hair was a dark, night-ocean blue. "It is good to see you well. How is Adaon my brother? Not too much under the thumb of the Queen?" "Only if he wants to be," said Nene cheerfully. Kieran looked puzzled. Mark put his face in his hands. "Emma!" Halfway to the table, Emma turned and found Jem approaching her, a shy smile on his face. She had seen him come in earlier, with Tessa, who was now seated beside Catarina Loss. She blinked at him as he reached her; it felt like centuries since she'd seen him, the awful day of Livvy's funeral. "Emma." Jem took her hands in his. "Are you all right?" He sees how tired I look, she thought. My puffy eyes, rumpled clothes, who knows what else. She tried to smile. "I'm really glad to see you, Jem." The light from the chandelier illuminated the scars on his cheekbones. "That's not really an answer to my question," he said. "Tessa told me about Thule. You have been on quite a journey." "I guess we all have," she said in a low voice. "It was awful--but we're back now." He squeezed her hands and released them. "I wanted to thank you," he said. "For all the help you and your friends have rendered us in curing the warlock illness. You have been a better friend to me than I have been to you, mei mei." "No--you've helped me so many times," Emma protested. She hesitated. "Actually, there is a question I want to ask you." Jem put his hands in his pockets. "Of course, what is it?" "Do you know how to strip a Shadowhunter's Marks?" Emma said. Jem looked stunned. "What?" He glanced around the room as if to make sure no one was looking at them; most people had taken their seats and were thankfully looking toward the front of the room expectantly. "Emma, why would you ask me about something so awful?" She thought quickly. "Well--the Cohort. Maybe the way to remove them from power is not--not to hurt them, but to make them not Shadowhunters anymore. And you were a Silent Brother, so you could do it, or..." Her voice trailed off at the horrified look on his face. "Emma, not every decision rests on your shoulders. The Clave will be restored, and they will deal with the Cohort." Jem's voice gentled. "I know you are worried. But as a Silent Brother, I have been part of the ceremony of stripping the Marks from a Shadowhunter before. It is something so horrible that I would never repeat it. I would never do it. Not under any circumstances." Emma felt as if she were choking. "Of course. I'm sorry I brought it up." "It's all right." There was so much understanding in his voice, it broke her heart. "I know you are afraid, Emma. We all are." She looked after him as he walked away. Despair was making it hard for her to breathe. I am afraid, she thought. But not of the Cohort. Of myself Emma took her place behind the table at the front of the room; Mark had also joined the small group, and she stood beside him, some distance from Julian. The doors had been closed and the torches lit, and row after row of faces stared back at them from the lines of chairs set up in the middle of the room. They had run out of chairs, in fact, and quite a few Downworlders and Shadowhunters were leaning against the walls, watching. "Thank you all for responding to my summons," Julian said. Emma could feel his nerves, his tension, speeding the pace of her own blood through her veins. But he showed none of it. There was an easy command in his voice, the room falling silent as he spoke without him needing to shout. "I won't drag out any explanations or introductions. You know who I am. You know my sister and brother; you know Aline Penhallow and Emma Carstairs. You know that Aline's mother, our Consul, has been illegally taken into custody. You know that Horace Dearborn has seized power in Idris--" "He was voted in," said Kwasi Bediako, the warlock Emma had noticed before with the white spider mark on his face; Cristina had whispered to her that Bediako was the High Warlock of Accra. "We cannot pretend otherwise." "No one voted for him to throw my mother in jail," said Aline. "No one voted for him to remove the Consul from power so he could be in charge." "There are others in jail, as well," said Cristina's mother. Cristina, sitting beside her, turned bright red. "Diego Rocio Rosales has been jailed! For nothing!" Kieran glanced at her, a small smile at the corner of his mouth. "As has my cousin Divya," said Anush Joshi, a young man with a jagged black haircut and an anxious face. "What do you plan to do about it? Intercede with the Council?" Julian glanced briefly down at his hands, as if gathering himself. "Everyone--all of us here--have always accepted a certain amount of prejudice from the Clave as normal, through choice or necessity." The room was quiet. No one disagreed, but there were many eyes cast down, as if in shame. "Now the Cohort has changed what we thought of as normal," Julian said. "Never before have Downworlders been driven from Idris. Never before have Shadowhunters jailed other Shadowhunters without even the pretense of a trial." "Why do we care what Shadowhunters do to each other?" demanded the phouka in the Kaelie T-shirt. "Because that's step one, and what they do to Downworlders will be worse," Emma said, surprising herself; she hadn't meant to speak, only to stand by Julian. "They've already registered many of you." "So you're saying we need to fight them?" said Gwyn in his rumbling voice. "This is a call to arms?" Julie Beauvale rose to her feet. "They may not be a good Clave, but they are still Shadowhunters. There are a lot of people who follow the Cohort who are scared. I don't want to hurt those people, and their fear is real, especially now that Jace and Clary are dead. They were our heroes, and I knew them--" "Julie," Beatriz hissed. "Sit down." "Jace and I were personally very close," Julie went on. "I wouldn't hesitate to call him my best friend, and I--" "Julie." Beatriz took Julie by the tail of her shirt and hauled her back into her seat. She cleared her throat. "I think that what Julie meant is that you're saying the Cohort wants to destroy the government, but I'm guessing, given all the secrecy, that you also want to destroy the government, and I... don't know how we do that without hurting innocent people." There was a hum of conversation. In the shadows, Emma saw them--she didn't know when they'd come in, but a single Iron Sister and a single Silent Brother stood motionless against the far wall, their faces in shadow. A slight chill went through her. She knew the Iron Sisters were against the Cohort. She didn't know about the Silent Brothers. They both seemed like emissaries of the Law, standing there in their silence. "Were not suggesting destroying the government," Julian said. "We're saying it's being destroyed right now, already, from within. The Clave was built to give all Shadowhunters a voice. If we are all voiceless, then it is not our government. The Law was enacted to protect us and to allow us to protect others. When Laws are bent and broken to put the innocent in danger, then it is not our Law. Valentine wanted to rule the Clave. Sebastian wanted to burn it down. We only want to return our rightful Consul to power, and to allow the government of Shadowhunters to be what it should be--not a tyranny, but a representation of who we are and what we want." "Those are some pretty words," said the French werewolf who'd been talking to Alec earlier. "But Jace and Clary were beloved of your people. They will want a war against those who harmed them." "Yes," said Julian. "I'm counting on that." There was no gesture, no signal that Emma could see, but the doors of the Sanctuary opened and Jace and Clary walked in, as if on cue. At first there was no reaction from the crowd. The light from the torches was bright, and neither of the two were in gear: Jace wore jeans and Clary a plain blue dress. As they passed through the crowd, people blinked at them until finally Lily Chen, looking annoyed, stood up and said, in a loud, bored voice, "I cannot believe my own eyes. Isn't that Jace Herondale and Clary Fairchild, back from THE DEAD?" The reaction that ripped through the crowd was electric. Clary looked over with some alarm as the roar grew; Jace just smirked as the two of them joined Emma and the others behind the long table. Lily had resumed her seat and was examining her nails. Julian was calling for people to be quiet, but his voice was drowned out by the noise. Feeling that this was an area in which she could excel, Emma jumped up onto the table and shouted. "EVERYONE," she yelled. "EVERYONE SHUT UP." The decibel level fell immediately. Emma could see Cristina giggling, her hand over her mouth. Beside her, Jace shot finger guns at Julie Beauvale, who had turned bright pink. "Good to see you, bestie," he said. Simon's shoulders were shaking. Isabelle, who had been watching with a half smile, patted his back. Clary scrunched her nose at Jace and then turned to the crowd. "Thank you," she said, her voice low but carrying. "We're glad to be here." The room fell pin-drop silent. Emma jumped down from the table. Julian was surveying the assembly, hands looped behind his back, as if wondering what he thought of the situation he'd architected. People were staring, rapt and silent, at Clary and Jace. So this is what it's like to be heroes, Emma thought, looking at the expressions on the faces of the crowd. To be the ones with angel blood, the ones who've literally saved the world. People look at you as if ... almost as if you're not real. "Inquisitor Lightwood sent us to Faerie," Clary said. "To seek a weapon in the possession of the Unseelie King, one that would be deadly to Shadowhunters. We discovered that the Unseelie King had opened a Portal to another world, one without angelic magic. He was using the earth from that other world to create the blight you have heard of--the one eating through Brocelind Forest." "That blight was eradicated the night before last," said Jace. "By a team of Nephilim and Fair Folk, working together." Now the silence broke: There was a buzz of confused voices. "But we are not the only Nephilim working with faeries," said Clary. "The current King of Unseelie, Oban, and the Cohort have been working together. It was the Cohort who arranged for him to be put on the throne." "How do we know that's true?" shouted Joaquin Acosta Romero, of the Buenos Aires Institute. He was sitting beside the French werewolf girl, his arm around her shoulders. "Because they have done nothing but lie to you," said Mark. "They told you Jace and Clary were dead. They told you faeries slaughtered them. Here they stand, alive." "Why would the Unseelie Court agree to be part of a scheme in which they were blamed for murder?" said Vivianne Penhallow. Everyone looked expectantly at Julian. "Because the Cohort and the Unseelie King have already agreed on exactly what both of them will get from this parley," he said. "The parley is a performance. That is why Horace is Projecting it so every Shadowhunter can see it. Because the performance is more important than the outcome. If he is seen to get what he wants from the Fair Folk, then confidence in the Cohort will grow so strong that we will never have a chance to unseat them." Emma tried to hide a smile. You're really back, Julian, she thought. "This is a government that will murder its own to control its own," said Jace. The smirk was gone from his face, and any pretense at amusement: His expression was stony and cold. "This time, it was us. By luck, we survived and are standing here to tell you our story. The Inquisitor is meant to uphold the Law. Not to hide behind it as an alibi for murdering their own." "What about murdering those who aren't Shadowhunters?" called a naga sitting near some of the Keo family. "We're against that, too," said Jace. "We've had bad members of our government before," said Julian. "But this is different. They've broken the system that might fix the situation. They're manipulating the Clave, manipulating us all. They are creating the illusion of threats to control us all through fear. They claim that faeries murdered Jace and Clary so they can declare an unjustified war--and under the cloak of that chaos, they put our Consul in prison. Who can speak against the war now?" A blond Nephilim raised a hand. "Oskar Lindquist here," he said. "Stockholm Institute. Are you saying we shouldn't go to Alicante? The parley is scheduled for tomorrow. If we do not arrive there tonight, we will be considered deserters. Traitors." "No," Julian said. "In fact, we need you to join the other Shadowhunters in Alicante as if everything is normal. Do nothing to alarm the Cohort. The parley is going to take place on the Imperishable Fields. We--the resistance-- are going to interrupt it, with everyone watching. We will present our proof, and when that is done, we need you there to stand up for us and hold the Clave accountable for what they've done." "We're the proof," Jace added, indicating himself and Clary. "I think they knew that," Emma muttered. She saw Jem, in the audience, give her an amused look, and tensed. It is something so horrible that I would never repeat it. I would never do it. Not under any circumstances. She determinedly put his words out of her mind. She couldn't think about that right now. "Why do this during the parley?" called Morena Pedroso, the head of the Rio Institute. A bored-looking girl about Dru's age, with long brown hair, sat beside her. "Why not confront them sooner?" "Horace wants--no, he needs --everyone to see him triumph over the Unseelie forces," said Julian. "Every Shadowhunter in Idris is going to be watching him via a massive Projection." There was a murmur of surprise among the Downworlders. "That means they'll be able to see and hear not just him but, if we join him--us. This is our chance. The Cohort is bringing everyone together in a way we don't have the power to do. This is our opportunity to show all Shadowhunters what the Cohort truly is." "And what if it comes to a battle? We'll be fighting other Shadowhunters," said Oskar Lindquist. "I'm sure I'm not the only one who doesn't want that." "Hopefully we can do this without a fight," said Julian. "But if it comes to one, we must be ready." "So you have a plan for Shadowhunters," called Hypatia Vex. She looked over at Kit and Ty and winked; Emma wondered what that was about but didn't have time to dwell on it. "What about us? Why did you bring Downworlders here?" "To witness," said Julian. "We're aligned here. We're on the same side against the Cohort. We know we're better, stronger, when Downworlders and Shadowhunters work together. And we wanted you to know that even if the Cohort are loud and hateful, they're a minority. You have allies." He glanced around the room. "A few of you will be with us. Kieran Kingson. Magnus Bane. But as for the rest of you--after the Shadowhunters pass through the Portals to Idris, you will need to return home to your people. Because if you don't hear from us after the parley, you can assume we were defeated. And if we are defeated, you're in danger." "We can withstand the Cohort," said Nene, and Mark looked at her in surprise. "There are many fewer of them than there are Downworlders." "If we lose, it won't be only the Cohort you need to fear," said Julian. "Once good Shadowhunters can no longer stand up to them, they will begin to destroy and control Downworlders. And while they do that, there will be nobody left to stand against the tide of evil from other worlds. They care so much about their prejudice, their imagined purity, and their Laws, that they have forgotten our mandate: Protect this world from demons." A whisper went around the room; a sound of horror. I have seen the world overrun by demons, Emma wanted to say. There is no place there for Downworlders. "We're an army. A resistance," Emma said. "We are seeking justice. It won't be pretty, but it'll only get worse. The longer we wait, the more damage they'll do and the more blood will be spilled stopping them." "Horace doesn't want a war," said Diana. "He wants glory. If it looks like he's facing danger, I believe he'll back off." "If we're an army, what are we called?" said Simon. Julian turned and unpinned the rolled-up canvas hanging on the wall behind him, which had been held in place with tacks. A gasp went up as it unfurled. Julian had painted a banner, the kind an army would carry before it in wartime. The central item was a saber, point down, painted a shimmering pale gold. Behind the saber spread a pair of angel's wings, while all around it clustered symbols of Downworld--a star for vampires, a spell book for warlocks, a moon for werewolves, and a four-leaf clover for faeries. Dangling from the hilt of the saber was a locket with a circle of thorns on the front. "We are called Livia's Watch," Julian said, and Emma saw Ty sit up straighter in his chair. "We carry this banner in honor of my sister, so that all who have been hurt by the Cohort will not be forgotten." Jace swept his gaze around the room. "If there is anyone who doesn't want to fight alongside us, they can depart now. No hard feelings." The room was silent. Not a chair moved. Not a single person rose. Still leaning against the wall near the doors, the Iron Sister and Silent Brother who had come to observe the proceedings were motionless. Only Emma heard Julian's low exhale of relief. "Now," he said. "Let's finalize the plan." Dru, sitting on a hillock of grass, watched as a dozen warlocks created Portals on the Institute's front lawn. It certainly wasn't something she'd ever thought she was going to see. The occasional warlock or Portal, sure, but not this many of them at one time. Through the Portals, she could see the fields in front of the walls of Alicante: It was impossible to Portal directly into the Shadowhunter city without advance permission; the closest you could get was the front gates. Which was fine anyway, because the Shadowhunters needed to check in with the Cohort and make sure Dearborn knew they were there. Dru was a little disappointed--she'd been hoping they'd be rushing into the city, swords flashing, but that wasn't Julian's style. If he could get what he wanted without a fight, he would. A few feet away, Tavvy was humming, running an old toy car up and down a smooth-sided rock. She'd sat by herself during the meeting, though Kit had given her an encouraging smile at one point. And she had seen Julian look at her when he'd said "Livia's Watch." He'd looked at them all, scattered through the room: Mark and Helen, Dru and Tavvy, and last of all, Ty. Dru had been worried since the night before, when Ty had come out of that weird cave by the beach. Kit had followed him and hadn't been there, as she had, to see the look on Ty's face when he'd first stepped outside. It was a hard look to explain. Half as if he might cry and half as if he might break down the way he sometimes did when things overwhelmed him. Livvy had always been able to calm him down, but Dm didn't know if she could do the same. She was no replacement for Livvy. Then Kit had come outside, and Ty's expression had changed, as if he'd realized something. And Kit seemed relieved, and Dru wanted to be relieved too. She'd worried about Ty when Julian had revealed the banner, and there had been Livvy's locket, the one Ty wore now, curled around a saber. And when Julian had said the words "Livia's Watch," hot tears had burned the back of Dru's eyes. She'd felt proud but also hollow where the piece inside her that had been Livvy had been lost to the darkness. Julian stood by the Sanctuary doors, speaking to the dark-haired Iron Sister who had come to the meeting. The last of the Shadowhunters were passing through the Portals. Some of the Downworlders remained inside the Sanctuary, avoiding the sun; others stood and looked at the ocean and chatted among themselves. Maryse Lightwood stood by the Portal Magnus had created, smiling as she watched Max and Rafe run in circles around Alec. Rocks and sand crunched: Dru looked up and saw Julian standing over her, silhouetted by the sun. "Hey, kiddo," he said. "What's going on with the Iron Sisters and Silent Brothers?" said Dru. "Are they on our side?" "The Iron Sisters have already rejected the Cohort," said Julian. "They're backing us up. Sister Emilia even had a good idea about the Mortal Sword. The Silent Brothers are--well, not neutral. They don't like the Cohort either. But any defection on their part will be more obvious and might tip our hand. They're going to station themselves in Alicante to keep an eye on things and prevent the Cohort from getting suspicious." This was one of the things Dru loved about Julian. He didn't talk down to her, not even about strategy. "Speaking of Alicante," she said. "It's time for us to go, huh?" She'd known this was coming. Julian had told her about it before the meeting. She'd thought she'd be all right with it, considering that she wanted to get into Alicante, and this was pretty much the only way it was going to happen. Not that Julian knew that. She screwed her face into a woeful expression. "I don't see why you have to leave us behind." "I'm not leaving you behind," Julian said. "I'm sending you ahead. You are part of Livia's Watch. Don't forget it." Dru continued to scowl. Tavvy was still playing with his car, but he was also watching them out of the corner of his eye. "Semantics are nobody's friend." Julian knelt down in front of her. Dru was surprised; she wouldn't have thought he'd want to get his knees dirty when he was wearing nice clothes, but apparently he didn't care. "Dru," he said. "I can't leave you here. It isn't safe. And I can't take you where we're going. There could be a battle. A big one." "I can fight," Dru said. Julian put his fingers under her chin and lifted her face so that she was looking directly at him. She wondered if this was what it was like for most kids to look at their parents. This was the face she associated with praise and scoldings, with late-night nightmare assistance and hot chocolate when it was needed and Band-Aids when those were called for. Julian had held her hand through the application of her first Marks. He was the one who stuck her terrible drawings to the fridge with magnets. He never forgot a birthday. And he was still a kid himself. It was the first time she'd been able to look at him and see it. He was young, younger than Jace and Clary or Alec and Magnus. And yet he'd stood up in front of that Sanctuary full of people and told them what they were going to do, and they'd listened. "I know you can fight," he said. "But if I think you're in danger, I don't know if I can." "What about Kit and Ty?" He grinned at her. "Don't tell them, but Magnus promised to make sure they don't get near the actual battle." Dru gave a reluctant smile. "It's going to suck not knowing if you guys are okay." "We'll all be wearing Familias runes," said Julian. "Tavvy, too. So that's something. If you need to know how one of us is, activate yours." His eyes darkened. "Dm, you know I'd protect you to my last breath, right? I'd give my last drop of blood for you. So would Emma." "I know," Dru said. "I love you, too." He pulled her into a quick hug, then stood up and offered his hand. She let him pull her to her feet and dusted herself off as he picked up Tavvy. She trailed along behind the two of them as they headed toward Maryse, Max, and Rafe. She didn't want to look as if she were in any way eager to go to Alicante. She felt a little bad about deceiving Julian, but if there was anything she'd learned from Kit and Ty in the past weeks, it was that sometimes you had to trick a trickster at his own game. "But why are the small ones going?" said Gwyn as Diana stood watching Max, then Rafe, then Tavvy pass through the Portal to Alicante. "It was my understanding that Julian wished to keep them all together." Diana sighed and slipped her hand into Gwyn's. "It's because he loves them that he's sending them away. Battle is no place for a child." "We have children in the Wild Hunt. As young as eight years, sometimes," said Gwyn. "Yes, but we've also covered how that's a bad thing, Gwyn." "Sometimes I forget all the lessons you teach me," said Gwyn, but he sounded amused. Dru was just stepping through the Portal to Alicante: She turned at the last moment and looked back at Julian. Diana saw him nod encouragingly as Dru stepped into the whirlwind and was gone. "It is not certain there will be a battle, either." "It is not certain there won't be," Diana said. Julian had turned away from the Portal; the encouraging look he'd worn for Dru and Tavvy was gone, and he looked hollow and sad. He headed toward the Institute doors. The false faces we wear for the ones we love, Diana thought. Julian would bleed out for these children and never ask for a bandage in fear that the question would upset them. "The children will be safe with Maryse. And not being frightened for them will free up Julian and the rest of us to do what we need to do." "And what is it you need to do?" Diana tipped her head back to look up at Gwyn. "Be warriors." Gwyn touched a curl of her hair. "You are a warrior every day." Diana smiled. Julian had reached the Sanctuary doors and had turned there, looking out on the group in front of the Institute: a motley collection of warlocks, Shadowhunters, and a group of werewolves playing hacky sack. "Time to come in," he said, his voice carrying over the sound of the sea. "The real meeting's about to start." From the window of the Gard, Manuel could see Shadowhunters streaming in through the Great Gate, the main entrance to the city of Alicante. All the exits were guarded now and warded against the imaginary threat of encroaching Unseelie faeries. "It does not seem the Blackthorns' meeting was a success," said Horace. He could see out the window from the Inquisitor's big desk. It was odd, Manuel thought; he still didn't think of Horace as the Inquisitor. Perhaps because he had never really cared who the Inquisitor or the Consul was. They were positions of power and therefore desirable, but they held no inherent meaning. "The families he invited to his little insurrection are still arriving." Zara entered without knocking, as was her usual style. She wore her Centurion gear, as she always did. Manuel found it pretentious. "The Rosewains are here, and the Keos, and the Rosaleses." She was fuming. "They all arrived at once, through Portals. It's like they're not even trying to hide it." "Oh, I don't know," said Manuel. "If we hadn't been tipped off about the meeting, I don't think we'd have noticed. Too many people coming and going." "Don't compliment Julian Blackthorn," said Zara, scowling. "He's a traitor." "Oh, clearly," said Manuel. "But now we get to punish them, which I'm going to enjoy." "I'm sure you are." Zara gave him a superior look, but Manuel knew she was going to enjoy the punishment of the Blackthorns just as much as he was. They both hated Emma. Of course, Manuel had good reason--she'd shown him disrespect at the last Council Hall meeting--while Zara was merely jealous. "We will make an example of them," said Horace. "After the parley. Not the younger Blackthorns--no one likes to see a child die, even if the seeds of evil are in them. But Julian certainly, and that half-breed brother and sister of his. The Carstairs girl, of course. Aline Penhallow is a tricky question--" The door opened. Manuel looked around curiously; there was only one other visitor to Horace's office who, like Zara, never bothered knocking. A tall, blond Shadowhunter stepped into the room. Manuel had seen him earlier, coming through the Great Gates. Oskar Lindquist, having separated himself from the rest of his equally blond family. Horace glanced up. His eyes glittered. "Shut the door behind you." Oskar made a sound between a growl and a laugh, closing and locking the office door. There was a slight shimmer in the air as he turned and began to change. It was like watching water spill over a painting, distorting and altering the lines of it. Zara made a low noise of disgust as Oskar's head fell back and his body spasmed, his hair turning a dark brownish-black and falling to spill over his shoulders, his spine compacting as he shrank down into a smaller frame, the lines of his jaw softening into a new, familiar outline. Annabel Blackthorn looked at them out of steady blue-green eyes. "So, how was the meeting?" Horace said. "We surmised it hadn't gone well, considering the number of Shadowhunters returning to Idris." "I believe it went as intended." Horace wrinkled his brow as Annabel sat stiffly in a chair opposite his desk. Zara watched her warily; Horace kept referring to Annabel as the Unseelie King's gift to him, but perhaps Zara didn't consider it a gift. "Except for the fact that I was there." "No one guessed you weren't Oskar?" said Zara. "Obviously not." Annabel was studying her hands as if they were unfamiliar to her. "Their plan is simple to the point of rudimentary. Which could be seen as an advantage--less to go wrong." Horace leaned forward, arms resting on his desk. "Are you saying we should be worried?" "No," Annabel said, touching the etched glass vial at her throat thoughtfully. Red liquid swirled within it. "The element of surprise was their only advantage. Foolish of them to assume they would not be betrayed." She sat back in her chair. "Let us begin with the basics. Jace Herondale and Clary Fairchild are still alive...." Emma stood at the doorway of the Institute. The last of the Downworlders had gone, and they would all be leaving for Brocelind soon. Brother Shadrach had assured Julian and the others that all the guards in Idris had been recalled to the city for the parley. The forest would be deserted. The afternoon sun glimmered on the sea, and distantly she wondered if, after today, she would ever see the Pacific Ocean again. Long ago her father had told her that the lights that danced on the surface of seawater came from glowing jewels beneath, and that if you reached under the surface, you could catch a jewel in your hand. She held her hand out in front of her now, palm up, and thought of Jem's words, and then of Diana's. Their runes began to bum like fire, as if they had fire in their veins instead of blood. Black lines spread over their bodies and they became monstrous--physically monstrous. Across the inside of her forearm, where the skin had been pale and smooth, was a dark webbing of black lines, like cracks in marble, nearly the size of the palm of her hand. <|title|>Chapter 28: And Shadows There <|startofchapter|>It was cool in Brocelind Forest; encroaching autumn added a cold metal bite to the air that Emma could taste on her tongue. Quiet had come suddenly after the rush of Portal travel, the setting up of tents in a cleared space among the ancient trees and green earth. They were far from the blighted areas, Diana promised them--in the distance, over the tops of the trees, Emma could see the glimmer of the demon towers of Alicante. She stood on a rise overlooking where they'd made camp. There were about a dozen tents, set up in rows, each with two torches burning in front of its flap door. They were cozy inside, with thick rugs on the floor and even blankets. Alec had given Magnus a sharp sideways look when they'd appeared out of nowhere. "I did not steal them," Magnus had said, looking studiously at his fingernails. "I borrowed them." "So you'll be returning them to the camping store?" said Alec, hands on his hips. "I actually got them from a warehouse that provides props for movies," said Magnus. "It'll be ages before anyone notices they're gone. Not," he added hastily, "that I won't be returning them, of course. Everyone, try not to set your tents on fire! They're not our property!" "Does one normally set them on fire?" said Kieran, who had his own tent-- Mark and Julian were sharing one, and Emma was sharing another with Cristina. "Is that a tradition?" Mark and Cristina both smiled at him. The oddness going on with the three of them was growing more intense, Emma thought, and resolved to ask Cristina about it. The opportunity came sooner than she'd thought it would. She'd been restless inside the tent alone--Cristina was helping Aline and Julian, who'd put themselves in charge of cooking dinner. Everyone was muttering around maps and plans, except Jace, who'd fallen conspicuously asleep with his head in Clary's lap. Emma couldn't concentrate. Her body and mind hummed with energy. All she wanted was to talk to Julian. She knew she couldn't, but the need to tell him everything was painful. She'd never made such a life-altering decision without telling him before. She'd ended up throwing on a sweater and taking a walk around the perimeter of the camp. The air smelled so different here than it did at home-- pine, green woods, campfire smoke. Inland, no scent of salt or sea. She climbed the small rocky rise over the camp and gazed down. Tomorrow they would ride out to challenge Horace Dearborn and his Cohort. Very likely there would be a confrontation. And her parabatai, the one who always fought by her side, would be lost to her. One way or another. The sun was setting, sparking off the distant shimmer of the demon towers. Emma could hear the night birds chirping in the woods nearby and tried not to think about what else was in the forest. She felt herself shivering --no, she was shaking. She felt disoriented, almost dizzy, and her cognitive process felt strangely diffuse, as if her mind were racing too fast for her to concentrate. "Emma!" Cristina was walking up the rise toward her, her dark eyes full of concern. "I looked for you in the tent but you weren't there. Are you all right? Or are you on watch?" Pull yourself together, Emma. "I just thought someone should try to keep an eye on things, you know, in case a party of Cohort members decides to take a closer look at Brocelind." "So you're on watch," said Cristina. "Maybe," Emma said. "What's going on with you and Kieran and Mark?" "Ay ay!" Cristina sat down on a rock, knocking her forehead gently against her hand. "Really? Now?" Emma sat down next to her friend. "We don't have to talk about it if you don't want to." She pointed her index finger at Cristina. "If we both die in battle tomorrow, though, we'll never get to talk about it ever, and you'll never get the benefit of my enormous wisdom." "Look at this crazy girl," Cristina said, gesturing to an invisible audience. "All right, all right. What makes you think anything new is happening, anyway?" "I see the way you all look at each other. I've never seen anything like it," Emma said. Cristina sobered immediately, her hand going to the angel medallion at her throat as it often did when she was nervous. "I don't know what to do," she said. "I love both of them. I love Mark and I love Kieran. I love them both in different ways, but with no less intensity." Emma spoke carefully. "Are they asking you to choose between them?" Cristina looked off toward the sunset, stripes of gold and red above the trees. "No. No, they're not asking me to choose." "I see," said Emma, who was not sure she did see. "Then..." "We decided it was impossible," Cristina said. "Kieran, Mark, and I--we are all afraid. If we were together, the way we want to be, we would bring misery on those we love." "Misery? Why?" Emma's hands were shaking again; she shoved them between her knees so Cristina wouldn't see. "Kieran fears for Faerie," Cristina said. "After so many terrible Kings, after so much cruelty, he wishes to go back and take up a place in the Court and see to the welfare of his people. He cannot turn away from that, and neither Mark nor I would want him to. But for us--we cannot know the future. Even if the Cohort is gone, it does not mean the end of the Cold Peace. Mark is afraid for Helen, for all the Blackthorns, that if he were involved with a prince of Faerie and everyone knew it, his family would be punished. I fear the same for my family. So it would never work. Do you understand?" Emma twirled a piece of grass between her fingers. "I would never judge you," she said. "First because it's you, and second because I hardly have the right to judge anyone. But I think you're letting your fear get in the way of what you really want because what you really want is what you're afraid of." Cristina blinked. "What do you mean?" "From the outside, here's what I see," said Emma. "When Mark and Kieran are alone together, they get pulled into their difficult past. It consumes them. When Mark and you are together, he worries that he isn't good enough for you, no matter what you say. And when Kieran and you are together, sometimes you can't bridge the gulf between Shadowhunter understanding and faerie understanding. Mark helps you bridge that gulf." The sun was nearly down, the sky a deep blue, Cristina's expression lost in shadow. "Does that seem wrong?" "No," Cristina said after a long pause. "But it doesn't--" "You're afraid of what everyone is afraid of," said Emma. "Having your hearts broken, being made miserable by love. But what you're saying, that's what the Cohort wants. They want to make people afraid, to make them stay apart because they have created an environment of fear and suspicion where you could be punished for being with someone you love. If they got their way, they'd punish Alec for being with Magnus, but that doesn't mean Magnus and Alec should split up. Am I making sense?" "A little too much sense," Cristina said, pulling at a loose thread on her sleeve. "I know one thing for sure," Emma said. "Cristina, of all the people I know, you're the most generous, and you spend the most time thinking about what makes other people happy. I think you should do whatever makes you happy. You deserve it." "Thanks." Cristina gave her a shaky smile. "What about you and Julian? How are you doing?" Emma's stomach lurched, surprising her. It was as if hearing the words "you and Julian" had set something off inside her. She pushed down on the feeling, trying to control it. "It's really hard," she whispered. "Julian and I can't even talk to each other. And the best we can hope for after all this is over is some kind of exile." "I know." Cristina took Emma's hand in hers; Emma tried to still her own shaking. Cristina's reassuring touch helped. For the millionth time, Emma wished she'd met Cristina earlier--that Cristina could have been her parabatai. "After the exile, if it happens, come and stay with me, wherever I am. Mexico, anywhere. I'll take care of you." Emma made a sound halfway between a laugh and a sniffle. "That's what I mean. You're always doing things for other people, Tina." "Okay, well, then I'm going to ask you to do something for me." "What? I'll do anything. Unless it makes your mom mad. Your mom scares me." "You want to kill Zara in the battle, if there's a fight, don't you?" Cristina said. "The thought had crossed my mind. Okay. Yes. If anyone else takes her out, I'm going to be really angry." Emma mock scowled. Cristina sighed. "We don't even know if there's going to be a fight, Emma. If Zara is spared or imprisoned or escapes, or if someone else kills her, I don't want you to dwell on it. Focus on what you want your life to be after tomorrow." After tomorrow I'll be exiled, Emma thought. Will I see you again, Cristina? Will I always miss you? Cristina narrowed her eyes in concern. "Emma? Promise me?" But before Emma could promise, before she could say anything at all, Aline's and Helen's voices cut through the evening air, calling them down to dinner. "Has anyone ever tried ketchup on a s'more?" Isabelle said. "This is why you're a bad cook," said Alec. Simon, bundled up in a sweater and leaning back against a log, slunk down as if he hoped to become invisible. "You actually like disgusting food. It's not, like, an accident." "I like ketchup and s'mores," said Simon loyally, and mouthed to Clary, I don't like them. "I know," Clary said. "I can feel through the parabatai bond how much you don't like them." "Julian is an excellent cook," said Emma, spearing a marshmallow. Magnus had produced bags of them along with the requisite chocolate and graham crackers. He gave Emma a dark look that seemed to say, Stay away from Julian, and also his cooking. "I am also an excellent cook," said Mark, putting an acorn onto his s'more. Everyone stared. "He can't help it," said Cristina loyally. "He has lived with the Wild Hunt for so long." "I don't do that," said Kieran, eating a s'more in the correct fashion. "Mark has no excuse." "I never pictured Shadowhunters eating s'mores," said Kit, glancing around the fire. It was like a scene out of dreams of camping he'd had when he was a little kid--the fire, the trees, everyone bundled up in sweaters and sitting around on logs, smoke in their eyes and hair. "On the other hand, this is the first s'more I've ever had that didn't come out of a box." "That's not a s'more, then," Ty said. "That's a cookie. Or some cereal." Kit smiled, and Ty smiled back at him. He leaned against Julian, who was sitting beside him; Julian put an absent arm around his younger brother, his hand ruffling Ty's hair. "Excited for your first battle?" Jace said to Kit. Jace was sitting cross- legged with his arms around Clary, who was creating a massive s'more out of several chocolate bars. "He's not going!" Clary said. "He's too young, Jace." She looked at Kit. "Don't listen to him." "He seems old enough," said Jace. "I was fighting battles when I was ten." "Stay away from my children," said Magnus. "I'm watching you, Herondale." Kit felt a brief jolt before realizing Magnus wasn't talking to him. Then another when he realized he'd reacted unconsciously to the name Herondale. "This is great," said Helen, yawning. "I haven't been camping in so long. You can't go camping on Wrangel Island. Your fingers will turn to icicles and snap right off." Emma frowned. "Where's Cristina?" Kit glanced around: Emma was right. Cristina had slipped away from the group. "She shouldn't be walking around the edge of the forest," Magnus said, frowning. "There are booby traps there. Quite well hidden, if I do say so myself." He started to rise. "I'll get her." Mark and Kieran were already on their feet. "We will find her," Mark said hastily. "In the Hunt, we learned much about traps." "And few know more about the ways of the forest than the fey," said Kieran. Magnus shrugged, but there was a knowing spark in his eye that Kit didn't quite understand. "All right. Go ahead." As they vanished into the shadows, Emma smiled and placed another marshmallow on a stick. "Let's make a toast." Aline raised a plastic cup of water. "To never being parted from our families again." She gazed at the fire. "Once tomorrow comes, we're never going to let the Clave do that to any of us again." "Not to be parted from family or friends," said Helen, raising her glass. "Or parabatai," said Simon, winking at Clary. Alec and Jace cheered, but Julian and Emma were silent. Emma seemed bleakly sad, staring down into her cup of water. She did not seem to see Julian, who looked at her for a single long moment before wrenching his gaze away. "To never being parted," Kit said, looking across the campfire at Ty. Ty's thin face was limned in light from the red-gold flames. "To never being parted," he said, with a grave emphasis that made Kit shiver for reasons he did not understand. Maryse could no longer return to the Inquisitor's house, as Horace and Zara had moved into it. Instead she took Dru and the others to the Graymark house, the one Clary said she had stayed in when she'd first come to Idris. Dru had gone to bed as soon as she politely could. She lay with the covers tucked up to her chin, looking at the last bits of sunlight fading from the circular windows. This side of the house faced onto a garden full of roses the color of old lace. A trellis climbed to the windows and circled them: At the height of summer they probably looked like necklaces of roses. Houses of old stone fell away down the hill toward the walls of Alicante--walls that tomorrow would be lined with Shadowhunters facing the Imperishable Fields. Dru burrowed farther under the covers. She could hear Maryse in the room next door, singing to Max and Rafe and Tavvy, a lilting song in French. It was strange to be too old for singing to comfort you but too young to take part in battle preparations. She started to say their names to herself, as a sort of good luck charm: Jules and Emma. Mark and Helen. Ty and Li -- No. Not Livvy. The singing had stopped. Dru heard footsteps in the hall and her door open; Maryse stuck her head in. "Is everything all right, Drusilla? Do you need anything?" Dru would have liked a glass of water, but she didn't know exactly how to talk to Max and Rafe's imposing, dark-haired grandmother. She'd heard Maryse playing with Tavvy earlier, and she appreciated how kind this woman who was basically a stranger was being to them. She just wished she knew how to say it. "No, that's okay," Dru said. "I don't need anything." Maryse leaned against the doorjamb. "I know it's hard," she said. "When I was young, my parents always used to take my brother, Max, with them to hunt demons and leave me alone at home. They said I'd be frightened if I went with them. I always tried to tell them I was more frightened worrying they'd never come back." Dru tried to picture Maryse young, and couldn't quite. She seemed old to Dru to even be a mom, though she knew she wasn't. She was actually quite a young grandmother, but Dru had gotten used to people who looked like Julian and Helen being like mothers and fathers to her. "They always did come back, though," Maryse said. "And so will your family. I know it feels like what Julian is doing is risky, but he's smart. Horace won't try anything dangerous in front of so many people." "I should go to sleep," Dru said in a small voice, and Maryse sighed, gave her an understanding nod, and closed the door. If she were home, a small voice said in the back of Dru's mind, she wouldn't have had to ask for anything--Helen, who knew she loved tea but that the caffeine kept her up, would have come in with a mug of the special decaffeinated blend they'd bought in England, with milk and honey in the mug the way Dru liked it. She missed Helen, Dru realized. It was a weird feeling--somewhere along the way her resentment toward Helen had vanished. Now she just wished she'd said a better good-bye to her older sister before she'd left the Institute. Maybe it was better that she hadn't said the right kind of good-byes to her family. Maybe it meant she was definitely going to see them again. Maybe it meant they'd be more forgiving when they found out what she was planning to do. The light blinked out in the hall; Maryse must be going to sleep. Dru threw off her blanket; she was fully dressed underneath, down to her boots and gear jacket. She slid out of bed and went over to the circular window; it was stuck shut, but she'd been expecting that. Taking a small dagger with an adamas blade out of her pocket, she started to jimmy it open. Kit lay awake in the darkness, counting the stars he could see through the open flap of the tent. Emma and Julian had said the stars in Faerie were different, but here in Idris they were the same. The same constellations he had looked at all his life, peeking through the smog above Los Angeles, shone above Brocelind Forest. The air was clear here, clear as cut crystal, and the stars seemed almost alarmingly close, as if he could reach out and catch one in his hand. Ty hadn't come back with him from the campfire. Kit didn't know where he was. Had he gone to talk to Jules or Helen? Was he wandering in the forest? No, Simon and Isabelle would have stopped him. But maybe Ty had found an animal he liked in the campsite. Kit's mind started to race. Where is he? Why didn't he take me with him? What if he can't tame these squirrels the way he can the ones at home? What if he's attacked by squirrels? With a groan, Kit kicked off his covers and reached for a jacket. Ty stuck his head into the tent, momentarily blotting out the stars. "Oh good, you're already getting ready." Kit lowered his voice. "What do you mean, I'm getting ready? Ready for what?" Ty dropped into a crouch and peered into the tent. "To go to the lake." "Ty," said Kit. "I need you to explain. Don't assume I know what you're talking about." Ty exhaled with enough force to make his dark fringe of hair flutter above his forehead. "I brought the spell with me, and all the ingredients," he said. "The best place to raise the dead is by water. I thought we'd do it next to the ocean, but Lake Lyn's even better. It's already a magic place." Kit blinked dizzily; he felt as if he'd woken up from a nightmare only to discover he was still dreaming. "But we don't have what we need to make the spell work. Shade never gave us the catalyst." "I thought he might not do it," said Ty. "That's why I picked up an alternate energy source last time we were at the Shadow Market." He reached into his pocket and took out a clear glass ball the size of an apricot. Red- orange flame blazed inside it as if it were a small, fiery planet, though it was clearly cool to the touch. Kit jerked back. "Where did that come from?" "I told you--the Shadow Market." Kit felt a wave of panic. "Who sold it to you? How do we even know it'll work?" "It has to." Ty slipped the crystal back into his pocket. "Kit. This is something I have to do. If there's a battle tomorrow, you know we're not going to be part of it. They think we're too young to fight. This is the way that I can help that isn't fighting. If I bring Livvy back, our family will be whole for the battle. It will mean that everyone will be happy again." But happiness isn't that simple, Kit wanted to cry; you can't rip it apart and put it hack together again without seeing the seams. Kit's voice was ragged. "It's dangerous, Ty. It's too dangerous. I don't think it's a good idea to mess around with this kind of magic, with an unknown power source." Ty's expression closed down. It was like watching a door shut. "I've already scouted for traps. I know how we can get there. I thought you would come with me, but even if you don't, I'm going to go alone." Kit's mind raced. I could wake up the camp and get Ty in trouble, he thought. Julian would stop him. I know he would. But Kit's whole mind revolted at the idea; if there was one thing his father had brought him up to understand, it was that everybody hated a snitch. And besides, he couldn't bear the look on Ty's face. "All right," Kit said, feeling dread settle in his stomach like a rock. "I'll go with you." Shapes danced in the heart of the fire. Emma sat on a log nearby, her hands thrust into the sleeves of her oversize sweater to keep them warm. The group had drifted away from the fire when the meal was done, retiring to their individual tents to sleep. Emma stayed where she was, watching the fire die down; she supposed she could have gone back to her own tent, but Cristina wasn't there, and Emma didn't feel much like lying alone in the dark. She glanced up as a shadow approached. It was Julian. She recognized him by the way he walked, even before the firelight illuminated his face--hand in his pocket, his shoulders relaxed and his chin upturned. Deceptively casual. The damp in the cool air had curled his hair against his cheeks and temples. Julian hid so many things, from so many people. Now for the first time she was hiding something from him. Was this how he had always felt? This weight in his chest, the pinching pain at his heart? She half-expected him to pass by her without speaking, but he paused, his fingers toying with the sea-glass bracelet on his wrist. "Are you all right?" he asked, his voice low. Emma nodded. Sparks from the fire reflected in Julian's blue eyes. "I know we shouldn't talk to each other," he said. "But we need to discuss something with someone. It's not about you or me." I can't do it, Emma thought. You don't understand. You still think we could get my Marks stripped if things went wrong. But then again--her rune hadn't burned since they'd left Los Angeles. The black webbing on her forearm hadn't grown. It was as if her misery were holding the curse back. Maybe it was. "Who's it about?" "It's about one of the things we learned in Thule," he said. "It's about Diana." Diana woke from dreams of flying to the sound of scratching at the door of her tent. She rolled out of her blankets and caught up a knife, rising to a crouch. She heard the sound of two voices, one rising over the other: "Octopus!" She had a vague memory that this was the code word they had all chosen earlier. She put her knife away and went to unzip the flap of the tent. Emma and Julian stood on the other side, blinking in the dark, pale and wide-eyed like startled meerkats. Diana raised her eyebrows at them. "Well, if you want to come in, come in. Don't just stand there letting all the cold air in." The tents were just high enough to stand up in, unfurnished by anything but rugs and bedding. Diana sank back into the nest of her covers, while Julian leaned against her pack and Emma sat cross-legged on the floor. "Sorry for waking you up," said Julian, ever the diplomat. "We didn't know when else we might get to talk to you." She couldn't help yawning. Diana always slept surprisingly well the night before a battle. She knew Shadowhunters who couldn't get to sleep, who stayed awake with pounding hearts, but she wasn't one of them. "Talk to me about what?" "I want to apologize," Julian said, as Emma worried at the frayed knee of her jeans. Emma didn't seem like herself--hadn't for a while now, Diana thought. Not since they'd come back from that other world, though an experience like that would change anyone. "For pushing you to be the head of the Institute." Diana narrowed her eyes. "What brought this on?" "The Thule version of you told us about your time in Bangkok," Emma said, biting her lip. "But you don't have to talk about anything to us that you don't want to." Diana's first reaction was a reflex. No. I don't want to talk about this. Not now. Not on the eve of battle, not with so much on her mind, not while she was worried about Gwyn and trying not to think about where he was or what he might do tomorrow. And yet. She'd been on her way to tell Emma and Julian precisely what they were asking about now when she'd found out she couldn't reach them. She recalled her disappointment. She'd been determined then. She didn't owe them the story, but she owed it to herself to tell it. They both sat quietly, looking at her. The night before a battle and they had come to her for this--not for reassurance, but to let her know it was her choice to engage or not to. She cleared her throat. "So you know that I'm transgender. Do you know what that means?" Julian said, "We know that when you were born, you were assigned a gender that does not reflect who you actually are." Something in Diana loosened; she laughed. "Someone's been on the Internet," she said. "Yeah, that's right, more or less." "And when you were in Bangkok, you used mundane medicine," said Emma. "To become who you really are." "Baby girl, I've always been who I really am," said Diana. "In Bangkok, Catarina Loss helped me find doctors who would change my body to represent who I am, and people who were like me, to help me understand I wasn't alone." She settled back against the rolled-up jacket she'd been using as a pillow. "Let me tell you the story." And in a quiet voice, she did. She didn't vary the telling much from the story she'd told Gwyn, because that story had eased her heart. She watched their expressions as she spoke: Julian calm and silent, Emma reacting to every word with widened eyes or bitten lips. They had always been like this: Emma expressing what Julian couldn't or wouldn't. So alike and so different. But it was Julian who spoke first when she was finished. "I'm sorry about your sister," he said. "I'm so sorry." She looked at him in a little surprise, but then of course--that would be what would strike a chord with Jules, wouldn't it? "In some ways, the hardest part of any of it was not being able to talk about Aria," she said. "Gwyn knows, right?" Emma said. "And he was good about it? He's kind to you, right?" She sounded as fierce as Diana had ever heard her. "He is, I promise," Diana said. "For someone who reaps the dead, he's surprisingly empathic." "We won't tell anyone unless you want us to," Emma said. "It's your business." "I worried that they'd find out about my medical treatment if I ever tried to become Institute head," said Diana. "That I'd be taken away from you children. Punished with exile." Her hands tightened in her lap. "But the Inquisitor found out anyway." Emma sat up straight. "He did? When?" "Before I fled Idris. He threatened to expose me to everyone as a traitor." "He's such a bastard," Julian said. His face was tight. "Are you angry with me?" Diana said. "For not telling you before?" "No," Julian said, his voice quiet and firm. "You had no obligation to do that. Not ever." Emma scooted closer to Diana, her hair a pale halo in the moonlight streaming through the tent flap. "Diana, these past five years, you've been the closest thing I've had to an older sister. And since I met you, you've shown me the kind of woman I want to grow up to be." She reached out and took Diana's hand. "I feel so grateful and so privileged that you wanted to tell us your story." "Agreed," Julian said. He bent his head, like a knight acknowledging a lady in an old painting. "I'm sorry I pushed you. I didn't understand. We--I-- thought of you as an adult, someone who couldn't possibly have problems or be in any danger. I was so focused on the kids that I didn't realize you were also vulnerable." Diana touched his hair lightly, the way she often had when he was younger. "That's growing up, isn't it? Figuring out that adults are people with their own issues and secrets." She smiled wryly just as Helen stuck her head in through the still- unzipped flap. "Oh good, you're up," she said. "I wanted to go over who's staying behind tomorrow--" "I've got a list," Julian said, sliding his hand into the pocket of his jacket. Emma got to her feet, murmuring that she needed to go find Cristina. She slipped out the door of the tent, stopping only to glance back once at Julian as she went, but he was deep in conversation with Helen and didn't seem to notice. Something was going on with that girl, Diana thought. Once they'd gotten through tomorrow, she'd have to find out what it was. <|title|>Chapter 29: Tempt the Waters <|startofchapter|>"Cristina! Cristina!" Voices rang through the woods below. Surprised, Cristina stood up, peering down into the darkness. It had been too painful at the campfire, looking at Mark and at Kieran, knowing she was counting down hours until one or both of them left her life forever. She had slipped away to sit among the trees and grass and shadows of Brocelind. There were white flowers here, among the green, native to Idris. She had seen them before only in pictures, and to touch their petals gave her a feeling of peace, though her sorrow remained beneath it. Then she had heard the voices. Mark and Kieran, calling for her. She had been sitting at the top of a green rise of grass between the trees; she rose, brushed herself off, and hurried down the hill toward the sound of her name. "Estoy aqui!" she called, nearly tripping as she rushed down the hill. "I'm right here!" They burst from the shadows, both white-faced. Mark found her first and swung her up off her feet, hugging her tightly. After a moment he released her to Kieran's arms as they tried to explain: something about Magnus and traps and being afraid she'd fallen into a pit lined with knives. "I would never do that," she protested as Kieran stroked her hair back from her face. "Mark--Kieran--I think we were wrong." Kieran let her go immediately. "Wrong about what?" Mark was standing next to Kieran, their shoulders just brushing. Her boys, Cristina thought. The ones she loved. She could not choose between them any more than she could choose between night and day. Nor did she wish to. "Wrong that it's impossible," she said. "I should have said it before. I was afraid. I did not want to be hurt. Isn't that what we all fear? That we will be hurt? We keep our hearts in prison, in terror that if we let them go free in the world they would be injured. But I do not want to be in a prison. And I think you feel the same, but if you do not--" In his soft, husky voice, Mark said, "I love both of you, and I could not say I love one of you the most. But I am afraid. The loss of both of you would kill me, and here it seems I am risking having my heart broken not once but twice." "Not all love ends in heartbreak," said Cristina. "You know what I want," Kieran said. "I was the one to say it first. I love and desire you both. Many are happy like this in Faerie. It is common, such marriages--" "Are you proposing to us?" said Mark with a crooked grin, and Kieran turned bright red. "There is one thing," he said. "The King of Faerie can have no human consort. You both know that." "It doesn't matter right now," Cristina said fiercely. "You are not King yet. And if you ever are, we will find a way." Mark inclined his head, a faerie gesture. "As Cristina says. My heart goes with her words, Kieran." "I want to be with you both," said Cristina. "I want to be able to kiss you both and hold you both. I want to be able to touch you both, sometimes at the same time, sometimes when we are just two. I want you to be able to kiss and hold each other because it makes you happy and I want you to be happy. I want us to be together, all three." "I think of each of you all the time. I long for you when you are not there." The words seemed to burst from Kieran like undammed water. He touched Mark's face with his long-boned fingers, light as the brush of wind on grass. He turned to Cristina next and, with his other hand, caressed her cheek. She could feel that he was shaking; she put her hand over his, pressing it to her face. "I have never wanted anything so desperately as this." Mark placed his own hand over Kieran's. "I too. I believe in this, in us. Love wakens love, faith wakens faith." He smiled at Cristina. "All this time we were waiting for you. We loved each other, and it was a great thing, but with you, it is even greater." "Kiss me, then," Cristina whispered, and Mark pulled her close and kissed her warmly, then hotly. Kieran's hands were on her back, in her hair; she leaned her head against him as he and Mark kissed over her shoulder, their bodies cradling hers, their hands linked in each other's. Kieran was smiling like his face would break; they were all kissing each other and laughing with happiness and touching each other's faces with wondering fingers. "I love you," Cristina said to both of them, and they said it back to her at the same time, their voices mingling so she was not sure who spoke first or last: "I love you." "I love you." "I love you." Kit had seen Lake Lyn before in pictures, the endless images of the Angel rising out of it with the Mortal Instruments that were inside every Shadowhunter building, on every wall and tapestry. It was a different thing entirely in real life. It moved like an oil slick under the moonlight: The surface was silver-black but shot through with bursts of chromatic splendor, streaks of violet blue and hot red, ice green and bruise violet. For the first time, when Kit imagined the Angel Raziel, massive and blank-faced, rising out of the water, he felt a shiver of awe and fear. Ty had set up his ceremonial circle by the edge of the lake, where the water lapped at a shallow sandy beach. It was actually two circles, one smaller within another larger, and in the border between the two circles Ty had etched dozens of runes with a pointed stick. Kit had seen ceremonial circles before, often in his own living room. But how had Ty become an expert at making them? His circles were neater than Johnny's had ever been, his etchings more careful. He wasn't using Shadowhunter runes but a runic language that looked far spikier and more unpleasant. Was this where Ty had been all those times Kit had turned around to find him gone? Learning how to be a dark magician? Ty had also set up their ingredients in neat rows beside him: the myrrh, the chalk, Livvy's baby tooth, the letter from Thule. Having placed the velvet bag containing a lock of Livvy's hair carefully among the other objects, Ty looked up at Kit, who was standing close to the water's edge. "Did I do it right?" A wave of reluctance came over Kit; the last thing he wanted was to get close to the magic circle. "How would I know?" "Well, your father was a magician; I thought he might have taught you some of this," Ty said. Kit kicked at the edge of the water; luminous sparks flew up. "Actually, my dad kind of kept me away from learning real spells. But I know a little." He scuffed across the beach toward Ty, who was sitting with his legs crossed on the sand. Kit had often thought night and darkness seemed like Ty's natural environment. He disliked direct sunlight and his pale skin looked as if it had never been burned. In moonlight, he shone like a star. With a sigh, Kit pointed at the glowing red ball Ty had gotten from the Shadow Market. "The catalyst goes in the middle of the circle." Ty was already picking it up. "Come sit next to me," he said. Kit knelt down as Ty started to place the objects into the ceremonial circle, murmuring in a low voice as he did so. He reached up, undid the chain of the locket, handed it to Kit. With a deep sense of dread, Kit placed the locket near the edge of the circle. Ty began to chant more loudly. "Abyssus abyssum invocat in voce cataractarum tuarum; omnia excelsa tua etfluctus tui super me transierunt. Deep calls to deep in the voice of your waterfalls; all your whirlpools and waves have passed over me." As he chanted, one by one the objects in the circle caught fire, like fireworks going off in a row. They burned with a clean white blaze, without being consumed. A strong wind started to blow off the lake: It smelled of loam and grave dirt. Kit started to hear a clamor of voices and twisted around, staring--was someone there? Had they been followed? But he saw no one. The beach was deserted. "Do you hear that?" he whispered. Ty only shook his head, still chanting. The lake shimmered, the water moving. Pale white figures rose from the dark water. Many were in gear, some in more old-fashioned armor. Their hair flowed down and around them, translucent in the moonlight. They reached their arms out toward him, toward Ty, who could not see them. Their lips moved silently. This is really happening, Kit thought, chilled to the bone. Whatever tiny hope he'd had that this wouldn't work had vanished. He turned to Ty, who was still chanting, spitting out the memorized words like machine-gun fire. "Hie mortui vivunt, hie mortui vivunt --" "Ty, stop." His hands shot out, grabbed Ty's shoulders. He knew he shouldn't--Ty didn't like to be startled--but terror was fizzing in his blood like poison. "Ty, don't do this." The Latin choked off midsentence: Ty stared at Kit, confused, his gray eyes darting from Kit's collarbone to his face and back down again. "What do you mean? I don't understand." "Don't do this. Don't raise her from the dead." "But I have to," Ty said. His voice sounded stretched, like a wire pulled taut. "I can't live without Livvy." "Yes, you can," Kit whispered. "You can. You think this will make your family stronger, but it will destroy them if you bring her back. You think you can't survive without Livvy, but you can. We will go through it together." Kit's face was cold; he realized he was crying. "I love you, Ty. I love you." Ty's face went blank with surprise. Kit plowed on, regardless, hardly knowing what he was saying. "She's gone, Ty. She's gone forever. You have to get through this. Your family will help you. I will help you. But not if you do this. Not if you do this, Ty." The blankness was gone from Ty's face. His mouth twisted, as if he were trying to hold in tears; Kit knew the feeling. He hated seeing it on Ty's face. He hated everything that was happening. "I have to get her back, Kit," Ty whispered. "I have to." He pulled away from Kit's grasp, turning back toward the circle, where the various objects were still burning. The air was full of the scent of char. "Ty!" Kit said, but Ty was already chanting Latin again, his hands outstretched to the circle. "Igniferroque, ex silentio, ex ammo --" Kit threw himself at Ty, knocking him onto the sand. Ty tumbled backward without a struggle, too surprised to defend himself; they rolled down the slight incline toward the water. They splashed into the shallows and Ty seemed to come back to life; he shoved at Kit, elbowing him hard in the throat. Kit coughed and let go; he grabbed for Ty again and Ty kicked at him. He could see that Ty was crying, but even crying, he was a better fighter than Kit was. Though Ty looked fragile as moonbeams, he was a Shadowhunter born and trained. He struggled free and darted up the sand toward the circle, thrusting his hand out to the fire. "Ex silentio, ex animo! " he shouted, panting. "Livia Blackthorn! Resurget! Resurget! Resurget!" The flame in the center of the circle turned black. Kit sank back on his heels, tasting blood in his mouth. It was over. The spell was done. The dark flames rose toward the sky. Ty stepped back, staring, as they roared upward. Kit, who had seen dark magic before, staggered to his feet. Anything could have gone wrong, he thought grimly. If they had to run, he'd knock Ty out with a rock and drag him away. The water of the lake began to ripple. Both boys turned to look, and Kit realized the shimmering dead were gone. There was only one transparent figure now, rising out of the water, her hair long and streaming silver. The outline of her face, her eyes, came clear: her floating hair, the locket around her throat, the drifting white dress that didn't seem like something Livvy would have chosen. "Livvy," Kit whispered. Ty ran to the edge of the lake. He stumbled, fell to his knees at the waterline as Livvy's ghost made its way toward them across the water, scattering luminous sparks. She reached the banks of the lake. Her bare feet trailed in the glowing water. She looked down at Ty, her body transparent as a cloud, her expression unfathomably sad. "Why have you disquieted me?" she said in a voice as sorrowful as winter wind. "Livvy," Ty said. He reached a hand out, as if he could touch her. His fingers passed through the skirt of her dress. "It's not really her." Kit wiped blood from his face. "She's a ghost." Relief battled with misery in his chest: She wasn't undead, but surely raising a ghost against its will wasn't a good idea either. "Why aren't you here?" said Ty, his voice rising. "I did everything right. I did everything right." "The catalyst you used was corrupted. It wasn't strong enough to fully bring me back," Livvy said. "It might have other consequences as well. Ty--" "But you can stay with me, right? You can stay with me like this?" Ty interrupted. The outlines of Livvy's body blurred as she swayed toward her brother. "Is that what you want?" "Yes. That's why I did all this," Ty said. "I want you with me in any way you can be. You were there with me before I was born, Livvy. Without you, I just --there's nothing if you aren't there." There's nothing if you aren't there. Pity and despair ripped through Kit. He couldn't hate Ty for this. But he would never mean anything to Ty and never had: That much was clear. "I loved you, Ty, I loved you even when I was dead," said Livvy's ghost. "But you have upended the universe, and we will all pay for it. You've ripped a hole in the fabric of life and death. You don't know what you've done." Tears ran down Livvy's face and splashed into the water: individual, glowing drops like sparks of fire. "You cannot borrow from death. You can only pay for it." She vanished. "Livvy!" Ty didn't scream the word so much as it was ripped from him; he curled up, hugging himself, as if desperate to keep his body from shattering apart. Kit could hear Ty crying, awful dark sobs that sounded pulled out of him; an hour ago he would have moved Heaven to make it stop. Now he was unable to take a step, his own pain a searing agony that held him frozen in place. He looked up at the ceremonial circle; the flames were burning white again, and the objects inside were beginning to be consumed. The velvet bag turned to ash, the tooth blackened, the chalk and myrrh destroyed. Only the necklace still gleamed whole and unharmed. As Kit watched, the letter from Thule caught fire and the words on the page flared up to burn a glowing black before vanishing: I love you. I love you. I love you. At the door of the Gard prison, Dru paused, picks in hand. She was breathing hard from her climb up the hill. She hadn't taken the normal paths, but crept through the underbrush, staying out of sight. Her wrists and ankles were torn from the whiplash scratches of branches and thorns. She barely felt the pain. Now was the moment of reckoning. On the other side of this action there was no turning back. No matter how young she was, if Horace and the others prevailed and learned what she'd done, she'd be punished. Julian's voice echoed in her ears. You are part of Livia's Watch. Don't forget it. Livvy wouldn't have hesitated, Dru knew. She would have hurtled forward, desperate to right any injustice she saw. She would never have held back. She would never have hesitated. Livvy, this is for you, my sister. I love you. I love you. I love you. She went to work on the lock. The entrance to the Silent City was just as Emma remembered it. A barely marked trail cut through a corner of Brocelind Forest, surrounded by thick greenery. It was clear that few passed this way, and rarely--her witchlight revealed a path almost unmarked by footsteps. She could hear the twitter of night birds and the movement of small animals among the trees. But something was missing from Brocelind. It had always been a place where one might have expected to see the glint of will-o'- the-wisps among the leaves or hear the crackle of a campfire around which werewolves were gathered. There was something very present about its current silence, something that made Emma walk with extra care. The trees grew together more thickly as she reached the mountainside and found the door in among the rocks. It looked just as it had three years ago: pointed at the top and carved with a bas-relief of an angel. A heavy brass knocker hung from the wood. Acting mostly on instinct, Emma reached behind her and drew the Mortal Sword from its scabbard. It had a weight in her hand that no other sword, not even Cortana, had, and it gleamed in the night as if it emitted its own light. She had taken it from Julian's tent where it had been hidden beneath the bedroll, wrapped in a velvet cloth. She had replaced it with another sword. It wouldn't pass close examination, but he had no reason to be racing to the tent every five minutes to check on it. After all, the camp was guarded. She placed her hand against the door. Brother Shadrach's message had said that the Silent City would be empty tonight, the Silent Brothers serving as guards on the city walls the night before the parley. And still the door seemed to pulse against her palm, as if it beat like a heart. "I am Emma Carstairs, and I bear the Mortal Sword," she said. "Open in the name of Maellartach." For an agonizingly long moment, nothing happened. Emma began to panic. Maybe the Mortal Sword of Thule was different, somehow, its atoms too altered, its magic alien. The door opened all at once, soundlessly, like a mouth yawning open. Emma slipped inside, glancing once over her shoulder at the silent forest. The door slid shut behind her with the same silence, and Emma found herself in a narrow, smooth-walled passage that led to a staircase going down. Her witchlight seemed to bounce off the marble walls as she descended, feeling as if she were passing through memory. The Silent City in Thule, empty and abandoned. Circles of fire in rooms of bones as she sealed her parabatai ritual with Julian. Her greatest mistake. The one that had ended with this journey. She shivered as she came out into the main part of the City, where the walls were lined in skulls and femurs and delicate chandeliers of bones hung from the ceiling. At least in Thule, she hadn't been alone. At last she entered the room of the Speaking Stars. It was just as it had been in her dream. The floor glimmered like the night sky turned upside down, the stars curving in a parabola before the basalt table where the Silent Brothers sat when in session. The table was bare, and no Sword hung behind it in its usual place. Emma stepped onto the stars, her boots clanking softly against the marble. In her dream, the floor had simply opened. Now, nothing happened. She rubbed at her exhausted eyes with her knuckles, feeling inside herself for the instinct that had guided her in opening the door of the City. lama parabatai, she thought. The magic that hinds me to Julian is woven into this place, into the fabric of Nephilim. Hesitantly, she touched a finger to the blade of the Mortal Sword. Ran her fingertip down it gently, letting her memory fall back to that moment she had stood in the fire with Julian-- thy people shall be my people, thy God my God -- A bead of blood formed on her fingertip and splashed down onto the marble at her feet. There was a click, and the floor, which had appeared seamless, opened and slid back, revealing a black gap below it. In that gap was a tablet. She could see it far more clearly than she had in her dream. It was made of white basalt, and on it was a parabatai rune painted in blood so ancient that the blood itself had long dissolved, leaving behind only a red-brown stain in the shape of the rune. Emma's breath caught in her throat. Despite everything, being in the presence of something so old and so powerful caught at her heart. Feeling as if she were choking, she raised the Sword in her hands, the tip of the blade pointed downward. She could see herself doing it, driving the Sword down, splitting the tablet apart. She imagined the sound of it breaking. It would be the sound of hearts breaking, all over the world, as parabatai were cut apart. She imagined them reaching for each other in uncomprehending horror--Jace and Alec, Clary and Simon. The pain that Julian would feel. She began to sob silently. She would be an exile, a pariah, cast out like Cain. She imagined Clary and the others turning from her with looks of loathing. You couldn't hurt people like that and be forgiven. But she thought again of Diana in Thule. Their runes began to bum like fire, as if they had fire in their veins instead of blood. People said that the blades of those who fought them shattered in their hands. Black lines spread over their bodies and they became monstrous--physically monstrous. I never saw it happen, mind you--I heard this all thirdhand. Stories about ruthless, massive shining creatures, tearing cities apart. Sebastian had to release thousands of demons to take them down. A lot of mundanes and Shadowhunters died. She and Julian could not become monsters. They could not destroy everyone they knew and loved. It was better to break the parabatai bonds than to be responsible for death and destruction. It felt like forever since Jem had explained the curse to her. They had tried everything to escape it. Eventually the power would make them mad, until they became as monsters. They would destroy their families, the ones they loved. Death would surround them. There was no escape but this. Her hands clamped tighter around the sword's hilt. She raised Maellartach. Forgive me, Julian. "Stop!" A voice rang through the Bone City. "Emma! What are you doing?" She turned, without moving from the Speaking Stars or lowering the Sword. Julian stood at the entrance to the chamber. He was white-faced, staring at her in total shock. He had clearly been running: He was breathless, leaves in his hair and mud on his shoes. "Don't try to stop me, Julian." Her voice was barely above a whisper. He held his hands out as if to show they were empty of weapons and took a step forward, toward her. She shook her head and he stopped. "I always thought this would be me," he said. "I never thought it would be you doing this." "Get out of here, Julian. I don't want you to be here for this. If they find me here, I want them to find me alone." "I know," he said. "You're sacrificing yourself. You know they'll blame someone--someone with access to the Mortal Sword--and you want it to be you. I know you, Emma. I know exactly what you're doing." He took another step toward her. "I won't try to stop you. But you can't make me leave you either." "But you have to!" Her voice rose. "They'll exile me, Julian, at best, even if Horace is overthrown; even Jia wouldn't overlook this, nobody would or could --they won't understand it--if it's the two of us, they'll think we did it so we could be together, you'll lose the kids. I won't let that happen, not after everything--" "Emma!" Julian held his hands out to her. The sea-glass bracelet on his wrist glittered, bright color in this place of bones and grayness. "I will not leave you. I will not ever leave you. Even if you shatter that rune, I won't leave you." A sob tore through Emma. And then another. She slid to her knees, still holding the Sword. Despair ripped into her, as strong as relief. Maybe it was relief. She couldn't tell, but she could sense Julian come up quietly and kneel down across from her, his knees against the cold stone. "What happened?" he said. "What about the cushion of time Magnus said we had--" "My rune has been burning--and yours, too, I know it. And there's this." She tugged up the sleeve of her sweater, turning her hand over to show him the mark on her forearm--a dark spiderweb-like pattern, small but growing. "I don't think we have time left." "Then we could get our Marks stripped," Julian said. His voice was soft, reassuring--a voice he saved for the people he loved the most. "Mine as well as yours. I thought that--" "I talked to Jem at the meeting," Emma said. "He told me he would never do it, never, and Magnus can't do it alone--" She caught her breath. "In Thule, Diana told me that when Sebastian started to take over, the parabatai in that world turned into monsters. Their runes burned, and their skin was covered with black marks, and then they became monsters. That's what's happening to us, Julian. I know it is. All that stuff about the curse turning us into monsters. It's like that monstrosity is hidden in the heart of the bond. Like--like a cancer." There was a long pause. "Why didn't you tell me about this?" "I didn't believe it at first," she whispered. "At least, I thought it was something that could only happen in Thule. But our runes have burned. And the black marks on my skin--I knew --" "But we don't know," he said softly. "I know how you feel. You feel shaky, right? Your mind's racing. Your heart's racing too." She nodded. "How--" "I feel the same way," he said. "I do think it's the curse. Jem said it would give us power. And I do feel like--like I've been lit up with electricity and I can't stop shaking." "But you seem all right," Emma said. "I think recovering from the spell, for me, is like climbing up out of a pit," he said. "I'm not quite at the top yet, where you are. I'm a little protected." He looped his arms around his knees. "I know why you're scared. Anyone would be. But I'm still going to ask you to do something for me. I'm going to ask you to have faith." "Faith?" she said. "Faith in what?" "In us," he said. "Even when you told me why it was forbidden for us to be in love--even when I knew we shouldn't ever have become parabatai --I still had all the memories of how wonderful it was to be your partner, to have our friendship made into something holy. I still believe in our bond, Emma. I still believe in the bonds of parabatai, in the importance of it, in the beauty of what Alec and Jace have, or what Jem had in the past." "But what if it can be turned against us?" Emma said. "Our greatest strength made into our greatest weakness?" "That's why I asked you to have faith," he said. "Believe in us if you can't believe in the idea of it. Tomorrow we might go into battle. Us against them. We need Jace and Alec, Clary and Simon--we need ourselves --to be whole and unbroken on the battlefield. We need to be at our strongest. One more day, Emma. We've made it this far. We can make it one more day." "But I need the Mortal Sword," said Emma, hugging the blade to her. "I can't do this without it." "If we win tomorrow, then we can get help from the Clave," Julian said. "If we don't win, Horace will be happy to strip our runes off. You know he will." "I thought of that," Emma said. "But we can't be sure, can we?" "Maybe, maybe not," he said. "But if you do this, if you cut the bonds, then I'm going to stand by you and take the blame along with you. You can't stop "But the kids," she whispered. She couldn't bear the thought of Julian being separated from them, of more pain and suffering coming to the Blackthorns. "Have Helen and Aline now," said Julian. "I'm not the only one who can keep our family together. When I was at my worst, you were at your best for me. I can only do the same for you." "All right," she said. "All right, I'll wait one day." As if it heard her voice, the floor closed up at her feet, hiding the parabatai tablet beneath the protecting marble. She wanted to reach out to Julian, to touch his hands, to tell him she was grateful. She wanted to say more, say the words they were forbidden to say, but she didn't--just looked at him silently and thought them, wondering if anyone had thought these words before in the Silent City. If they had thought them like this: with equal hope and despair. I love you. I love you. I love you. <|title|>Chapter 30: The Riches There That Lie <|startofchapter|>A scratching noise at the tent flap woke Emma. She had slept dreamlessly all night, waking only when Cristina crept into the tent late and rolled herself up in her blankets. She struggled awake now, feeling groggy; she could see through the gap in the tent fabric that it was gray outside, the sky heavy with impending rain. Helen was outside their tent. "Thirty-minute warning," she said, and her footsteps receded as she continued with the wake-up call. Cristina groaned and rolled out of her blankets. They had both slept in their clothes. "My stele," she said. "We should"--she yawned--"Mark each other. Also, there had better be coffee." Emma stripped down to her tank top, shivering as Cristina did the same. They exchanged runes--Swiftness and Sure-Footedness for Emma, Blocking and Deflecting runes for Cristina, Sure-Strike and Farsight for both. Cristina didn't ask why Emma wasn't getting her runes from Julian. They both knew. They zipped and laced their way into their gear and boots and clambered out of the tent, stretching their stiff muscles. The sky was heavy with dark clouds, the ground wet with dew. It seemed as if everyone else was already awake and hurrying around the camp--Simon was zipping his gear, Isabelle polishing a longsword. Magnus, dressed somberly in dark colors, was helping a geared-up Alec strap on his quiver of arrows. Aline was drawing a Fortitude rune on the back of Helen's neck. Mark, his weapons belt bristling with daggers, was stirring some porridge over the fire. Cristina whimpered. "I don't see coffee. Only porridge." "I always tell you coffee's evil, addict," said Emma. "Give me your hand-- I'll draw you an Energy rune." Cristina grumbled but held her hand out; a good Energy rune worked much like caffeine. Emma looked at Cristina affectionately as she ran the stele over her skin. She had a suspicion she knew where Cristina had been the night before, though now wasn't the time to ask. "I can't believe this is actually happening," Cristina said as Emma returned her hand. "I know," Emma said. She squeezed Cristina's hand before putting her stele away. "I'll have your back if anything happens. You know that." Cristina touched her medallion and then Emma's cheek, her eyes grave. "May the Angel bless you and keep you safe, my sister." Raised voices drew Emma's attention before she could say anything else. She turned to see Julian standing with Ty and Kit; Ty was speaking loudly, clearly angry, while Kit hung back with his hands in his pockets. As she headed over, she saw Kit's expression more clearly. It shocked her. He looked utterly drained and despairing. "We want to be there with you," Ty was saying. Mark had started over, abandoning the porridge. Helen, Aline, and Kieran stood nearby, while the others were politely not paying attention. "We want to fight beside you." "Ty." New runes stood out black and gleaming on Julian's wrists and collarbones. Emma wondered who had done them--Mark? Helen? It didn't matter. It should have been her. "This isn't a fight. It's a parley. A peace meeting. I can't bring my whole family." "It's not like you're invited and we're not," said Ty. He was in gear; so was Kit. A shortsword hung at Ty's hip. "None of us are invited." Emma hid a smile. It was always hard to argue with Ty when he made good points. "If we all show up, it'll be chaos," Julian said. "I need you here, Ty. You know what your job is. " Ty spoke reluctantly. "Give a warning. Stay safe." "That's right," Julian said. He took Ty's face in his hands; Ty was still a head shorter than him. "Stay safe, Tiberius." Mark looked relieved. Kit still hadn't spoken a word. Over Ty's head, Julian nodded at Magnus, who stood beside Alec in the shelter of a nearby tree. Magnus nodded back. Interesting, Emma thought. The others had begun to approach now that it seemed the argument was over: Cristina and Kieran, Diana, Isabelle and Simon, Clary and Jace. Jace went over to Kit and touched the boy on the shoulder with all the gentleness Emma knew he was capable of, but which he rarely showed. As Emma watched, Jace offered Kit a slim silver dagger with a design of herons in flight etched on the handle. Kit took it carefully, nodding his head. Emma couldn't hear them talking, but Kit at least looked a little less miserable. Kieran and Cristina had been speaking to each other in low voices. Kieran moved away from her now, coming to face Julian and the rest of those who were going to the Fields--Emma and Cristina, Alec and Mark. Kieran's dark hair curled damply around his face. "It is my time to go as well, I think." "I am sorry you can't remain with us for this part of the plan," said Julian. "You have been a great help, Kieran. It feels as if you belong with us." Kieran gave Julian a measuring look. "I did not see you clearly enough in the past, Julian Atticus. You do have a ruthless heart. But you also have a good one." Julian looked faintly surprised, and then even more surprised as Kieran went to kiss Mark good-bye--then turned to Cristina and kissed her as well. Both smiled at him as everyone stared. Guess I was right, Emma thought, and raised an eyebrow at Cristina, who blushed. Kieran murmured something to the two of them that Emma couldn't hear, and melted into the woods, vanishing like mist. "Those of us leaving camp must go," said Diana. "The parley is soon and it will take an hour at least to walk to the Fields." Clary was talking to Simon; she patted his shoulders and turned worriedly to Isabelle, who hugged her. Alec had gone to speak with Jace. Everywhere were parabatai, preparing to be parted, even if briefly. Emma felt a sense of unreality. She had expected the bonds to be broken by now. It was strange to be standing where she was--not yet fleeing, not yet hated or exiled. Alec clasped Jace's hand. "Take care." Jace looked at him for a long moment, and let him go. Clary moved away from Simon and went to stand with Jace. They watched as Magnus crossed the wet grass to Alec, inclined his head, and kissed him gently. "I wish you could come," Alec said, his eyes bright. "You know the deal. No Downworlders scaring Horace," said Magnus. "Be good, my archer boy. Come back to me." He went to stand with Jace and Clary. Helen and Aline joined them, and so did Kit and Ty. They made a small and silent group, watching as the others turned and walked into the woods of Brocelind. "Are you ever going to talk to me again?" Ty said. He and Kit were sitting in a green hollow in the forest, close to the campsite. A gray boulder covered in green-brown moss rose behind them; Ty was leaning his back against it, his eyes half-lidded with exhaustion. Kit barely remembered coming back from Lake Lyn the night before. Ty had hardly been able to walk. He had leaned on Kit most of the way, but Kit hadn't spoken then, either. Not even when it started to rain and they splashed through miserable dampness together. Not when Ty had to stop to dry-heave by the side of the path. Not when he doubled over and gasped for Julian as if somehow Julian would appear out of thin air and make everything better. It was as if Kit's emotions were trapped somewhere in an airless killing jar. Ty didn't want him--not as a friend, not as anything. Every breath hurt, but his mind shied away from why: from who he really blamed for what had happened. "We're supposed to be keeping quiet," was all he said now. Ty gave him a doubtful look. "That's not it," he said. "You're mad at me, I think." Kit knew he should tell Ty what he was feeling; it was more than unfair to expect him to guess. The only problem was that he wasn't sure himself. He remembered returning to camp, remembered crawling into their tent together, Ty curling up into himself. Kit had wanted to get Julian, but Ty had only shaken his head, pressing his face into his blankets, chanting under his breath until his muscles had relaxed and he'd fallen into an exhausted sleep. Kit hadn't slept. He reached into his pocket. "Look--last night, after--well, before we left the lake I went back up to the fire." It had been ash and char, save one shining remnant. Livvy's gold necklace, glimmering like pirate treasure among the ashes. Kit held it out now and saw Ty's eyes crinkle at the corners the way they did when he was very surprised. "You got it for me?" Ty said. Kit kept holding the necklace out. It swung between them, a shimmering pendulum. Ty reached his hand out slowly to take it. The blood had been burned away from the surface. The locket shone clean as he fastened it around his neck. "Kit," he began haltingly. "I thought that you--I thought that it would be 55 Leaves crunched; a branch snapped. Kit and Ty fell instantly silent. After a moment, hand on the pendant at his throat, Ty rose to a crouch and began to whistle. Emma and the others made their way in near-total silence through the woods, which were damp and green and thick with leaves and water. Cold drops of rain broke through the canopy occasionally and slid down the back of Emma's collar, making her shiver. They had reached a fork in the road some ways back. Diana, Isabelle, and Simon had gone to the right. The others had gone to the left. There had been no good-byes, though Alec had kissed his sister on the cheek without a word. They walked on now as a group of five: Julian first, then Mark and Cristina --not holding hands but close together, shoulders touching--and Alec and Emma, bringing up the rear. Alec was watchful, his bow ever ready, his blue eyes raking the shadows on either side of the path. "Have you ever wanted a really big tapestry of yourself?" Emma said to him. Alec was not the sort who rattled easily. "Why?" he said. "Do you have one?" "I do, actually," said Emma. "I rescued it from the Inquisitor's office and carried it through the streets of Alicante. I got some pretty weird looks." Alec's mouth twitched. "I bet you did." "I didn't want the Inquisitor to throw it away," Emma said. "He wants to pretend that the Battle of the Burren didn't matter. But I've been to Thule. I know what it would mean if there had never been a Clary. Or a Jace. Or a you." Alec lowered his bow slightly. "And imagine where we'd be now," he said, "if there hadn't been a Julian or a you or a Cristina or a Mark. There are times, I think, where we're each called. Where we can choose to rise up or not to rise up. What you did in Faerie--" He broke off. "You know, you should give that tapestry to Magnus. If anyone would enjoy having it, he would." Light broke through the trees suddenly. Emma looked up, thinking the clouds had parted, and realized they had reached the edge of the forest. The trees thinned out, the sky arching overhead in shades of pearlescent gray and smoky blue. They had left the forest. In front of them stretched the green field, all the way to the far walls of Alicante. In the distance, she could see dark figures, small as beetles, approaching the center of the Imperishable Fields. The Cohort? The Unseelie? Even with Farsight runes, they were too distant to tell. "Emma," Julian said. "Are you ready?" She looked at him. For a moment it was as if no one was there but the two of them, as if they faced each other across the floor of the parabatai chamber in the Silent City, the connection between them shimmering with its force. Julian's face was pale above the black of his gear; his blue-green eyes burned as he looked at her. She knew what he was thinking. He had come this far, to the edge of where there was no turning back. He needed her to take the last step with him. She lifted her chin. "We choose to rise up," she said, and, stepping onto the grass of the Fields, they began to march toward the walls of Alicante. And the sky was full of angels. Dru stood by the side of the canal in front of the Graymark house, holding Tavvy's hand. All through Alicante, Shadowhunters old and young lined the streets, gazing up at the sky. Dm had to admit that what Horace had done was impressive. It was like looking at a massive movie screen, an IMAX or something bigger. When they had first come out of the house, Maryse shooing Rafe and Max ahead of her, they'd stopped dead to gawk at the enormous square in the sky. All they'd been able to see then was the green of the Fields and a piece of gray-blue sky. Then Horace and Zara had come into the frame, striding across the grass, and because of the size of the Projection and the angle, they had looked like angels striding across the sky. Horace looked as he always had, with one marked difference: the sleeve covering his left arm hung empty from the elbow down. Zara had her hair loose, which was impractical for fighting but dramatic as a visual. She also had golden Cortana strapped to her side, which made Dru's stomach turn. "That's Emma's sword," Tavvy said crossly. Dru didn't reprimand him. She felt no less annoyed. Horace and Zara were followed by a small group of guards--Vanessa Ashdown and Martin Gladstone among them--and a contingent of Centurions. Dru recognized some from the time they'd stayed at the Institute, like Mallory Bridgestock, Jessica Beausejours, and Timothy Rockford. Manuel wasn't with them, though, which surprised her. He'd always struck her as someone who liked to be at the center of things. As they took their places on the field, Maryse shook her head and muttered something about Gladstone. She had been trying to corral Max and Rafe, neither of whom were interested in the dull sky-pictures, but now she looked at Horace and frowned. "The Circle all over again," she said. "This is just how Valentine was--so sure of his own rightness. So sure it gave him the right to decide for others how they should believe." An audible gasp ran through the watching Shadowhunters. Not a reaction to Maryse's words--they were all staring upward. Dru craned her neck back and saw with a shock that the Unseelie Court army was now marching across the Fields toward the Cohort. They seemed vast, a countless array of faeries in the dusky livery of the King of Unseelie. Knights on horseback with spears of silver and bronze gleaming in the early light. Squat goblins with stern-looking axes; dryads with stout wooden staffs and kelpies gnashing their knife-sharp teeth. Marching at the front were redcaps in their blood-dyed uniforms, their iron boots ringing on the earth. They surrounded a crowned man on a horse--the new King of Unseelie. Not the one Dru was familiar with from pictures; this King was young. His crown was cocked insouciantly to the side. As he came closer, Dru could see that he resembled Kieran slightly. The same straight mouth, the same inhumanly beautiful features, though the King's hair was coal-black and streaked with purple. He rode up to the Inquisitor and the rest of the Cohort and gazed down at them coldly. Maryse made a noise of surprise. Other Shadowhunters were gasping, and a few standing on Cistern Bridge clapped. As much as Dru hated Horace, she could tell this was good theater: The small band of the Cohort facing down a great Faerie army. She was just glad she had some theater of her own planned. "Greetings, my lord Oban," said Horace, inclining his head. "We thank you for agreeing to take parley with us this morning." "He's lying," Tavvy said. "Look at his face." "I know," Dru said in a low voice. "But don't say it where people can hear you." Oban slid gracefully from his horse. He bowed to Horace. There was another collective gasp that rocketed up the streets of Alicante. Faeries did not bow to Shadowhunters. "The pleasure is mine." Horace smiled expansively. "You understand the gravity of our situation," he said. "The death of two of our own--especially such famed Shadowhunters as Jace Herondale and Clary Fairchild--leaves a hole in the heart of our community. Such a wound cannot be borne by a civilized society. It demands recompense." He means retribution, thought Dru. She knew the two were different, though she doubted she could have explained exactly how. "We of the Lands of Unseelie do not disagree," said Oban pompously. "It seems to us proved that Downworlders and Shadowhunters cannot occupy the same space in safety. Better for us to be separated and respect one another from a distance." "Quite," said Horace. "Respecting one another from a distance seems very fine." "Seriously," Maryse muttered. "No one can be buying this crap, can they?" Dru glanced sideways at her. "You really sound like a New Yorker sometimes." Maryse smiled crookedly. "I'll take that as a compliment." There was a sudden stir. Dru looked up and saw that Horace, who had been nodding in agreement with King Oban, was staring into the distance, his mouth open in shock. Oban turned, and a scowl--the first genuine expression he'd shown-- spread across his face. "What is this intrusion?" Unable to stop herself, Dru clapped her hands together. Coming into the Projection's focus, striding across the green fields toward the Cohort, were Julian, Emma, and the rest of their group. Against all odds, they had arrived. The wind had risen and whipped across the Fields, its force unbroken by walls or trees. The grass bent in front of Emma and the others, and Horace's Inquisitor robes flapped around him. Zara pushed her hair out of her face and glared furiously at Julian before turning her look of loathing on Emma. "You," she hissed. Emma grinned at Zara with all the hatred sparked by the sight of Cortana hanging at Zara's side. "I always wanted someone to hiss 'you' at me," she said. "Makes me feel like I'm in a movie." Horace sneered. "What are you brats doing here? How dare you interrupt this parley? This is a serious matter, not a game for children." "No one said this was a game, Dearborn." Julian stopped in between Horace and a milling crowd of faerie knights and redcaps, flanked by Mark and Alec on one side, Emma and Cristina on the other. "Nor are we children." "I'm certainly not," Alec pointed out mildly. A man standing in the center of the milling redcaps pointed at Mark. He had a look of Kieran about him, with messy purple-black hair and a gold circlet tilted slightly on his head. "I know you." Mark glared. "Unfortunately, that's true." He turned to the others. "That is Prince Oban." "King Oban," Oban snapped. "Horace--Inquisitor, see that they show me respect." "They shouldn't be here at all," said Horace. "My apologies for this intrusion." He flipped a smug hand in their direction. "Ashdown--Gladstone --get rid of this trash." "You heard him." Vanessa stepped forward, her hand at the blade at her waist. "It's really hard to imagine what Cameron did to deserve relatives like you," Emma said to her, and had the satisfaction of watching her turn a blotchy color. Alec raised his bow. So did Mark. "If you do not surrender your arms," said Horace, "we will be forced to--" "Is this really what you want everyone to see?" Julian interrupted. "After everything you said about the deaths of young Shadowhunters--you want to be the cause of more of them?" He turned away from Horace, toward the walls of Alicante, and spoke in a clear, hard voice. "This parley is false. It is entirely for show. Not only is the Inquisitor allied with the Unseelie Court, but he has placed Oban on the throne as his puppet." Zara gasped audibly. Where Horace had looked smug, he now looked stunned. "Lies. These are disgraceful lies!" he roared. "I suppose that you're going to say that he killed Jace and Clary as well," said Zara. Julian didn't bother to look at her. He kept staring toward Alicante. Emma imagined the Shadowhunters in the city. Could they see him, hear him? Did they understand? "I wasn't going to say that," said Julian. "Because they're not dead." They're not dead. A roar went up around Dru. There was chaos in the streets: She could hear people calling out in happiness and others in surprise or anger; she could hear Jace's and Clary's names, spoken over and over. Tavvy raised his fists to the sky, where the image of Julian towered above them, flanked by Emma and their friends. That's my brother, Dm thought proudly. My brotherJulian. "It's in very bad taste to make such jokes," Gladstone snapped. "The world of Nephilim still mourns Jace and Clary--" "And we found their bloodstained clothes," said Zara. "We know they're dead." "People drop jackets sometimes, Zara," said Alec. "Jace is my parabatai. If he were dead, I would know." "Oh, feelings," Horace said nastily. "This is all about your feelings, is it, Lightwood? We at the Cohort deal in facts! Our facts!" "No one owns facts," Cristina said quietly. "They are immutable." Horace gave her a look of disgust and turned to Oban. "Jace Herondale and Clary Fairchild are dead, aren't they?" Oban's expression was a mixture of anger and unease. "One of my redcaps told me it was so, and as you know, my people cannot lie." "There you have it," said Horace. "I am out of patience with you, Blackthorn! Guards, come and take them to the Gard. Their punishment will be decided later." "We'll take them." Zara stepped forward, Timothy Rockford at her side. She slid Cortana from its sheath and raised it to gesture at the intruders. "Emma Carstairs, I arrest you in the name of--" Emma reached out her hand. She reached out as she had through all the years since Julian had placed Cortana in her arms at the start of the Dark War. She reached out as she had in the thorn hedge of Faerie, as if she were reaching down through the past to touch the hands of all the Carstairs women who had held Cortana through the years. Zara's hand jerked. Cortana's grip tore free of her fingers and the blade sailed across the space between them. The hilt smacked into Emma's hand. Reflexively, she grasped it, and raised the sword high. Cortana was hers again. They had been sitting on one of the campfire logs, chatting, though Helen was too nervous to keep her mind firmly on the conversation. She couldn't keep her mind off Jules and Mark, and the danger they were now facing. "They'll be all right," Magnus said after he'd asked her a question twice and she hadn't answered. She was staring off into the profusion of trees, her whole body tensed. "Horace wouldn't harm them in front of so many people. He's a politician." "Everyone's got a breaking point," said Helen. "We've seen people do some pretty strange things." Magnus's cat eyes flashed. "I suppose we have." "It's nice to see you again," Aline said to him. "We haven't spent much time together since Rome." She smiled at Helen; Rome was where they had met, years ago. "I keep telling myself I'm going to avoid wars and battles in the future," said Magnus. "Somehow they keep coming to me. It must be something about my face." The sound of the whistle brought Helen to her feet, along with Aline. It wasn't much of a warning. The trees around them shook; Helen had just drawn her sword when a group of fifty or sixty heavily armed Cohort members burst from them, led by Manuel Villalobos, and headed straight for the camp. Magnus hadn't bothered to get up off his log. "Oh my," he said in a bored voice. "A terrifying and unexpected attack." Aline hit him on the shoulder. The Cohort members pounded up the slight hill and burst into the camp, encircling Magnus, Helen, and Aline. Manuel wore his full Centurion gear; his red-and-gray cloak swirled impressively as he seized Aline and yanked her back against his chest, his dagger out. "Which tent is Jace and Clary's?" he demanded. He gestured with his dagger. "You two! Milo, Amelia! Grab the warlock's hands. He can't do magic without them." He shot Magnus a look of loathing. "You ought to be dead." "Ah, indeed, but the thing is, I'm immortal," Magnus said cheerfully, as a beefy Shadowhunter--Milo, apparently--yanked his hands together behind him. "Someone ought to have told you." Helen wasn't having as easy a time being cheerful. Aline shot her a reassuring look, but the sight of her wife in Manuel's grip was still more than she could stand. "Let her go!" she demanded. "As soon as you tell me where Jace and Clary are," said Manuel. "In fact, let me phrase it in words you might understand. Tell me where they are or I'll cut your wife's throat." Helen and Aline exchanged a look. "It's that blue one over there," said Helen, and pointed in what she hoped seemed a reluctant manner. Manuel shoved Aline away from him. Helen caught her and they embraced tightly. "I hated that," Helen muttered against Aline's neck as Cohort members shot by them, their unsheathed blades flashing. "I didn't love it either," Aline replied. "He reeks of cologne. Like a pinecone. Come on." They glanced back at Magnus, who was whistling cheerfully and ignoring his guards, who looked sweaty and worried. Magnus nodded at them and they hurried after Manuel and the others, who were just approaching the blue tent. "Grab them," Manuel said, indicating the tent stakes. "Yank it out of the ground." The tent was seized, lifted off the ground, and hurled aside, collapsing in a pile of fabric. Revealed beneath were Jace and Clary, sitting cross-legged on the dirt, facing each other. They had been playing tic-tac-toe on the ground with sticks. Clary had her hair in a ponytail and looked about fifteen. Manuel made a sputtering noise. "Kill them," he said, turning to his companions. "Go on. Kill them." The Cohort looked nonplussed. Amelia took a step forward, raising her blade--then started visibly. The trees around the campsite were rustling loudly. The Cohort members who had remained at the treeline, weapons drawn, were glancing around in puzzlement and dawning fear. Jace drew the third in a line of X's on the ground and tossed aside his stick. "Checkmate," he said. "Checkmate is chess," Clary pointed out, entirely ignoring the Cohort surrounding them. Jace grinned. It was a bright, beautiful grin, the sort of grin that made Helen understand why, all those years ago, Aline had kissed him just to see. "I wasn't talking about our game," he said. "I said kill them!" Manuel shouted. "But, Manu," said Amelia, pointing a shaking finger. "The trees--the trees are moving--" Aline grasped Helen's hand as the forest exploded. There was a moment of stillness. Genuine wonder showed on nearly every face, even Oban's. As a faerie, perhaps he understood the significance of Cortana's choice, whether he liked it or not. Emma's gaze met Julian's. He smiled at her with his eyes. Julian understood what this meant to her. He always did. Zara gave a screech. "Give that back!" She advanced on Emma, who raised Cortana in triumph. Her blood sang in her veins, a song of gold and battle. "You cheaters! Thieves! Coming here, trying to spoil everything, trying to ruin what we're building!" "Cortana doesn't want you, Zara," Julian said quietly. "A sword of Wayland the Smith can choose its bearer, and Cortana does not choose liars." "We are not liars--" "Really? Where's Manuel?" Mark demanded. "He was in Faerie when I was there. I saw him plotting with Oban. He spoke of an alliance with the Cohort." "Then he spoke of this parley!" Horace roared. "This is an alliance--it is no secret--" "That was long before you told the Clave that Jace and Clary had died," said Cristina. "Can Manuel see the future?" Horace actually stamped his foot. "Vanessa! Martin! Get rid of these intruders!" "My redcaps can take them," said Oban. "Shadowhunter blood makes a fair dye." The Cohort froze. Julian gave a small, cold smile. "Really, Prince?" said Mark. "How would you know?" Oban whirled on him. "You will address me as your King! I rule the Lands of Unseelie! I took the title from my father--" "But you didn't kill him," said Cristina. "Kieran did that. Kieran Kingson." The army of Unseelie had begun to mutter. The redcaps looked on stonily. "End this farce, Dearborn," Julian said. "Send the Unseelie army home. Come and face your people in the Council Hall." "Face them?" Horace said, his mouth working in disgust. "And how do you suggest I do that when I have not yet arranged for justice? Would you simply forget those brave Shadowhunters, the ones who you claim as friends, who have died at the hands of Downworlders? I will not abandon them! I will speak for them--" "Or you could let them speak for themselves," Alec said mildly. "Since, you know, here they are." "Oh, look, and there's Manuel," said Emma. "We were awfully sorry to miss him, but I see he was ..." "Don't say it," warned Julian. "... tied up." Emma grinned. "Sorry. Can't resist a bad pun." And tied up he was: Manuel, along with a group of fifty or more Cohort members, was being marched firmly across the Fields from the edge of Brocelind Forest. Their hands were tied behind their backs. They were being propelled forward by a crowd of Shadowhunters--Aline and Helen, Isabelle and Diana and Simon. Walking alongside them, as casually as if they were out for a morning stroll, were Jace and Clary. Above them fluttered the banner of Livia's Watch, Clary holding the stanchion from which the banner flew. Emma's eyes stung --Livvy's locket and saber, flying high above the Imperishable Fields. And behind them--behind them came a wave of all the Downworlders who had waited in the woods through the night: warlocks and werewolves and fey of all sorts, leaping and striding and stalking out from between the trees. Brocelind Forest was full of Downworlders once more. Horace had gone still. Zara shrank in against his bulk, glaring through her tangled hair. "What is happening?" said Zara in a dazed voice. Emma almost felt sorry for her. Julian reached up and unbuckled the clasp holding on his cloak. It slid from his shoulders, revealing the hilt of the Mortal Sword, blackly burnished silver with angel wings outspread. Horace stared at him, wheezing slightly. Emma couldn't tell if he recognized the Mortal Sword or not yet; he seemed beyond that. "What have you done, you stupid boy?" he hissed. "You have no idea--the careful planning--all we have done in the name of Nephilim--" "Well, hello there, Dearborn." Horace jerked back, as if the sight of Jace and Clary so close burned him. Jace held Manuel in front of them by the back of his uniform, the Centurion's expression sulky and annoyed. "It seems the rumors of our death have been greatly exaggerated. By you." Clary thrust the stanchion she was holding into the earth, so the banner fluttered upright. "You've always wanted to say that, haven't you?" she asked Jace. Alec looked at them both and shook his head. The rest of the Shadowhunters and Downworlders had spread themselves out across the field between the parley area and the walls of Alicante. Familiar faces were mixed into the crowd: Simon and Isabelle stood close by, and near them Emma recognized Catarina, Diana, Maia, and Bat; she looked for Magnus and finally found him standing near the edge of Brocelind Forest. What was he doing so far away? "Dearborn," Alec said. "This is your last chance. Call off this meeting and return with us to the Council Hall." "No," Horace said. Some of the color had come back into his face. "But everyone can see you lied," Emma said. "You lied to every Shadowhunter--tried to frighten us all into obedience--" "That's not Jace and Clary." Horace pointed at them with shaking fingers. "These are some--some imposters--some warlock magic meant to trick and deceive--" "The Iron Sisters predicted you would say that," Julian said. "That's why they gave me this." He reached behind him and drew the Mortal Sword from its scabbard. The metal seemed to sing as the blade arced across the sky, scattering sparks. An audible gasp went up from the Cohort and the Unseelie faeries; Emma could only imagine the commotion occurring in the city. "The Mortal Sword, reforged." Silently, Julian thanked Sister Emilia and her willingness to deceive the Cohort. Horace's mouth worked. "A fake--a falsity--" "Then you won't mind if Manuel holds it," said Julian. "Order him to take it." Horace froze. His eyes darted from the Sword to Manuel and back again; it was, startlingly, Oban who broke the silence. "Well, if it is a falsity, let the boy take it," he said. "Let us suffer this farce only briefly." His silvery eyes flicked to Manuel. "Take the Sword, Centurion." Tight-lipped, Manuel reached out his hands, and Julian placed the Mortal Sword in them, the blade across his palms. Emma saw Manuel jerk as if in pain, and felt a cold relief. So the Sword's power was working. It was painful to be forced to tell the truth. The Sword's power hurt, and not just those who lied but any who wished to protect their secrets. Julian crossed his arms and looked at Manuel. It was a hard, cold look, a look that went back generations of Blackthorns, to those who had been Inquisitors themselves. "Did you and the Cohort try to kill Clary and Jace just now?" Manuel's face was blotched white and red, his careful hair disarranged. "Yes," he hissed. "Yes. I did." He shot Horace a venomous look. "It was on the Inquisitor's orders. When he found out they were still alive and would be in Brocelind Forest last night, he ordered us to slay them at dawn." "But that didn't happen," Julian said. "No. They must have been warned. They were waiting for us, and the woods were full of Downworlders. They attacked. We had no chance." "So you were willing to kill fellow Nephilim and pin the blame on Downworlders," said Julian. "Why? Why foment war?" "I did what Horace ordered me to do." "And in Faerie," said Julian. "When you helped Oban become King. When you brokered an alliance between the Cohort and the Unseelie Court. Was that because Horace asked you to do it?" Manuel was biting his lip so hard blood was running down his chin. But the Sword was stronger than his will. "It was my idea," he gasped. "But Horace embraced it--he loved the idea of pulling off a trick under the Clave's noses--we put Oban on the throne because Oban was a fool who would do what we wanted--he would stage this parley with us, and we would pretend to reach a deal, a deal where both parties would get what they wanted. The Unseelie Court would get the Shadowhunters on their side against Seelie and other Downworlders--and the Cohort would be able to say that they had forced the Unseelie Court into a peace agreement, that they had agreed never to enter Idris again. Both sides would look strong to their people." "Enough!" Oban shouted. He reached to seize the Mortal Sword from Manuel, but Mark moved in front of him, blocking his way. "Silence this brat!" "Fine," Julian said unexpectedly, and plucked the Sword from Manuel's grasp. "Enough with the junior leagues. Dearborn, take the Sword." He walked toward Horace, holding the Sword. All around Horace drooped the members of the Cohort, looking alternately shocked and furious. It wasn't too difficult to tell who had been surprised by Manuel's revelations, and who hadn't. "It's time you spoke to your people, Dearborn," Julian said. "They can see you. They can hear you. You owe them an explanation." He held the Sword out to him, level and ready. "Let yourself be tested." "We will be tested in battle!" Horace screamed. "I will prove myself! I am their leader! Their rightful Consul!" "Consuls don't lie to their Council members," said Julian. He lowered the Mortal Sword so that the flat of the blade lay across his left palm, wincing slightly as the truth-telling compulsion took hold. "You blamed Dane Larkspear's death on faeries. I killed Dane Larkspear." Emma felt her eyes widen. She hadn't expected Julian to say that. "Maybe a little too much radical honesty," Simon muttered. "I killed him because you sent him into Faerie to murder me and to murder my parabatai" said Julian. "I'm holding the Mortal Sword. I'm not lying. You can see that." He spoke as if he were addressing only Horace, but Emma knew he was addressing every Shadowhunter and Downworlder who could hear him. "Samantha Larkspear was hurt when she tried to torture Kieran Kingson at the Scholomance. Possibly also on your orders." He gave a little gasp; the Sword was clearly hurting him. "You've set Shadowhunters against Shadowhunters and against innocent Downworlders, all in service of tricking the Council into adopting your bigoted reforms--all in service of fear--" "Yes, I did!" Horace screamed. Zara flew to her father's side and yanked on his empty sleeve; he seemed barely to notice her. "Because the Nephilim are fools! Because of people like you, telling them Downworlders are our friends, that we can live in peace beside them! You would have us stretch out our necks willingly to the slaughtering blade! You would have us die lying down, not fighting!" He flung his right arm toward Oban. "I wouldn't have had to accept an alliance with this drunken fool if the Clave had not been so stupid and so stubborn! I needed to show them--show them how to protect ourselves honorably from Downworlders--" "'Honorably'?" Julian echoed, raising the Mortal Sword so it no longer touched his palm. It was a weapon again now, not a test of the bearer's veracity. "You drove the Downworlders out of Brocelind. You knew the Unseelie Court was spreading the blight that was killing warlocks and you did nothing. How is that honorable?" "As if all he did was nothing," Mark spat. "He encouraged the King to spread his poisoned earth here--to slay the Children of Lilith--" "I think we're done here." Alec spoke coldly, in a ringing voice. "It is time for the Unseelie Court to go, Horace. Your loyalty is in question and you are no longer able to negotiate on the behalf of either Downworlders or Nephilim." "You have no power to send us away, boy!" snapped Oban. "You are not the Consul, and our arrangement is with Horace Dearborn alone." "I don't know what Horace promised you," said Jace, cool satisfaction in his tone. "But he can't help you, Prince." "I am the King." Oban raised his bow. From the knot of Downworlders, a faerie woman stepped forward. It was Nene, Mark and Helen's aunt. She faced Oban proudly. "You are not our King," she said. "Because you are Seelie folk," sneered Oban. "Some of us are Seelie, some Unseelie, and some of the wild peoples," said Nene. "We do not acknowledge you as the King of the Unseelie Lands. We acknowledge Kieran Kingson, who slew Arawn the Elder-King with his own hands. He has the right of the throne by blood in his veins and by blood spilt." She stepped aside, and Kieran emerged from the circle of the fey. He had dressed himself in his clothes from Faerie: unbleached linen tunic, soft deerskin breeches and boots. He carried himself upright, his back straight, his gaze level. "Greetings, brother Oban," he said. Oban's face twisted into a snarl. "The last time I saw you, brother Kieran, you were being dragged in chains behind my horses." "That is true," said Kieran. "But it speaks more ill of you than it does of me." He looked out over the ranged masses of silent Unseelie warriors. "I have come to challenge my brother for the throne of Unseelie," he said. "The usual method is a duel to the death. The survivor shall take the throne." Oban laughed in disbelief. "What? A duel noiu?" "And why not now?" said Nene. Mark and Cristina were looking at each other in horror; it was clear neither of them had known this part of the plan. Emma doubted anyone had but Kieran himself and a few other faeries. "Or are you afraid, my lord Oban?" In a smooth, sudden move, Oban raised his bow and shot at Kieran. The arrow flew free; Kieran jerked aside, the arrow just missing his arm. It flew across the field and slammed into Julie Beauvale; she went down like a struck sapling, her whip flying from her hand. Emma gasped. Beatriz Mendoza cried out and fell to her knees at Julie's side; Alec whirled and shot a flurry of arrows at Oban, but the redcaps had already closed in around the King. Several went down with Alec's arrows in them as he nocked arrow after arrow to his bow and flew toward the Unseelie warriors. "After him! Follow Alec!" shouted Maia. Werewolves dropped to the ground on all fours, sprouting fur and fangs. With a shout, the Cohort surrounding Horace seized up their weapons and charged; Julian parried a blow from Timothy with the Mortal Sword, while Jessica Beausejours threw herself at Emma, her sword whipping around her head. Nene dashed forward to arm Kieran with a silver sword; it flashed like lightning as he laid about him. Oban's Unseelie faeries, loyal to their King, surged to protect him, a tide of bristling spears and swords. Mark and Cristina hurtled toward Kieran, Cristina armed with a two-edged longsword, elf-shot flying from Mark's bow. Redcaps crumpled at their feet. Simon, Jace, and Clary had already drawn their swords and leaped into the fray. Timothy yelled as his sword snapped in half against the blade of Maellartach. With a whimper, he vanished behind Horace, who was screaming wildly for everyone to stop, for the battle to stop, but no one was listening. The noise of the battle was incredible: swords slamming against swords, werewolves howling, screams of agony. The smell of blood and metal. Emma disarmed Jessica and kicked her legs out from under her; Jessica went down with a scream of pain and Emma whirled to find two goblin warriors with their broken-glass teeth and leathery faces approaching. She raised Cortana as one rushed at her. The other went down suddenly, its legs caught in a snare of electrum. Emma dispatched the first goblin with a blade to the heart and turned to see Isabelle, her golden whip snared around the legs of the second. The trapped goblin yelled and Simon took care of it with the stroke of a longsword, his expression grim. Julian called out and Emma turned to see a faerie knight rise up behind her; before she could even lift Cortana, he staggered back with one of Julian's throwing knives sunk deep in his throat. Emma whirled; Julian was behind her, the gleaming Mortal Sword in his hand. There was blood on him, and a bruise on his cheek, but with Maellartach in his hand he looked like an avenging angel. Emma's heart beat in great, powerful strokes; it was so good to have Cortana in her hand again, so good to fight with Julian by her side. She could feel the parabatai warrior magic working between them, could see it like a shimmering cord that tied them together, moving when they moved, binding but never ensnaring them. He gestured to her to follow him, and together they plunged into the heart of the battle. The Projection in the sky burst apart like fireworks, the images tumbling toward the city in shining shards. But Dru had seen enough. They all had. She swung around to see Maryse behind her, staring at the sky as if blinded by an eclipse. "Poor Julie--did you see--?" Dru looked at Max and Rafe, who were clinging together, clearly terrified. "You have to get the kids into the house. Please. Take Tavvy." "No!" Tavvy wailed as Dru pushed him toward Maryse and the red front door of the Graymark house. "No, 'Silla, I want to go with you! NO!" he shrieked, the word tearing her heart as she let go of him and backed away. Maryse was staring at her, still looking stunned. "Drusilla--stay in the house--" Behind Maryse the streets were full of people. They'd caught up weapons, dressed themselves in gear. A battle had begun, and Alicante would not wait. "I'm sorry," Dru whispered. "I can't." She took off running, hearing Tavvy screaming for her long after she was likely out of earshot. She wove in and out of crowds of Shadowhunters in gear, bows and swords slung over their shoulders, their skin gleaming with fresh runes. It was the Dark War all over again, when they had flown hectically through the cobblestoned streets, chaos all around them. She caught her breath as she cut through Cistern Square, darted through a narrow alley, and came out in Hausos Square, opposite the Western Gate. The great doors of the gate were closed. Dru had expected that. Lines of Cohort warriors blocked the crowds of Shadowhunters--many of whom Dru recognized from the war council meeting--from accessing them. The square was quickly filling with Nephilim, their angry voices raised. "You cannot hold us in here!" shouted Kadir Safar, from the New York Conclave. Lazio Balogh scowled at him. "The Inquisitor has decreed that no Shadowhunters leave the city!" he called back. "For your own protection!" Someone grabbed at Dru's sleeve. She jumped a foot and nearly screamed; it was Tavvy, grubby and disheveled. "The Silent Brothers--why don't they do something?" he demanded, distress printed all over his small face. The Silent Brothers were still standing at the watch points they'd been assigned, motionless as statues. Dru had passed many of them the night before, though none had tried to stop her or asked her business. She couldn't think about the Silent Brothers now, though. She seized Tavvy and almost shook him. "What are you doing here? It's dangerous, Tavvy!" He stuck out his jaw. "I want to be with you! I won't be left behind anymore!" The crowd burst into a fresh spate of shouting. The Cohort guarding the gate was starting to look rattled, but none of them had moved. There was no time to send Tavvy back. This could turn into a bloodbath at any moment, and even more than that, Dru's family and friends were on the Imperishable Fields. They needed help. She grabbed Tavvy's hand. "Then keep up," she snapped, and they started to run, shoving and pushing their way through the crowd to the other side of the square. They ran down Princewater Canal and over the bridge, reaching Flintlock Street in a matter of minutes. It was deserted--some houses had been abandoned so quickly that their doors still swung open. Halfway down the street was the shop with its small sign, diana's arrow. Dru flew to the door and rapped on it hard--three fast knocks, then three slow. Open up, she prayed. Open, open, open -- The door flew wide. Jaime Rocio Rosales stood on the other side, dressed in black battle gear. He carried a gleaming silver crossbow, pointed directly at her. "It's me," Dru said indignantly. "You know--the one who got you out of jail?" "You can never be too careful, princess," he said with a wink, and lowered the bow, calling over his shoulder for Diego and the others. They began to pour out into the street, all in gear, bristling with brand-new weapons: longswords and rapiers, crossbows and maces, axes and bolas. "Who taught you how to pick locks like that, anyway? I never got a chance to ask you last night." Kit Herondale, Dru thought. The thought of Kit reminded her of something else, too. Tavvy was staring round-eyed at all the gleaming weaponry: Diego was sporting an ax, Divya a two-handed bidenhander, Rayan a Spanish bola. Even Jia was decked out with her favorite sword, a curved dao. "Okay, everyone," Dm said. "These weapons are Diana's, and after today, they have to be returned to the store." "No worries," said Jaime. "I have written out a receipt." "He has not written out a receipt," said Diego. "I considered it," said Jaime. "Sometimes it is not the thought that counts, little brother," said Diego, and there was a deep warmth in his voice that Dru had never heard before. She sympathized--she knew what it was like to lose a brother and get him back. "We have to go," Tavvy said. "Everyone at the gates is shouting and the Cohort won't let them out." Jia stepped forward. "They cannot keep us trapped in the city," she said. "Follow me." Jia seemed to have a mental map of the city in her head. She cut across several bigger streets, through narrow alleys, and behind houses. In what seemed like minutes they came out into Hausos Square. "Someone let the prisoners out!" shouted a voice, and then other voices joined in, with many calling Jia's name. "Move aside!" Rayan shouted. He had set himself on one side of Jia, beside Diego. Divya and Jaime were on the other. Dru hurried behind, still holding Tavvy's hand, along with the others who had escaped the Gard. "Make way for the Consul!" That cut through the shouting. The crowd fell silent as Jia carved a path among the throng like a battleship cutting through heavy weather. She walked proudly, the dim sun gleaming on her gray-black hair. She reached the center of the locked gate, where Lazio Balogh stood, a spear upright at his side. "Open the gate, Lazio," she said in a quiet voice that nevertheless carried. "These people have a right to join their friends and family in battle." Lazio's lip curled. "You are not the leader of the Clave," he said. "You are under investigation. I am acting on the orders of Horace Dearborn, Inquisitor and temporary Consul." "That investigation is over," Jia said calmly. "Horace Dearborn came to power unlawfully. He has lied and betrayed us. Everyone here heard the words from his own mouth. He unfairly imprisoned me as he has now imprisoned us in our city while lives are at risk on the Fields. Open the gates." "Open the gates!" shouted a boy with dark hair--Dru saw Divya smile. It was Anush, her cousin. "Open the gates!" Divya cried, thrusting her sword into the air. "Open the gates in the name of Raziel!" Jaime whistled, his grin infectious. "Abre laspuertas!" The cry rose into the air. More and more Nephilim joined in--Kadir Safar and Vivianne Penhallow, the cry of "Open the gates!" lifting into a chorus. Tavvy and Dru joined in, Dru losing herself for a moment in the shouting, the feeling of being part of something bigger and stronger than herself alone. She climbed onto a bench, pulling Tavvy up beside her, so she could see the whole scene: the obviously uncomfortable Cohort, the shouting Nephilim, the few Shadowhunters who stood quiet and uncertain. "We will not disobey the true Consul!" shouted Lazio, his face darkening. "We will die here before you force us to betray the Law!" The cries faltered; no one had expected that. Tavvy's eyes widened. "What does he mean?" The crowd had frozen. No Nephilim wanted to be forced to harm another Nephilim, especially after the nightmare of the Dark War. Jia seemed to hesitate. A Silent Brother stepped forward. Then another, and another, their parchment robes rustling like leaves in the wind. The crowd shrank back to make way for them. Dru couldn't help but stare. The last time she had looked at a group of Silent Brothers, it had been the day of her sister's funeral. A silent voice echoed across the square. Dru could see by the expressions on the faces of the others in the crowd that everyone could hear it, echoing inside their minds. I am Brother Shadrach. We have conferred among ourselves as to what the Law instructs us to do. We have concluded that the true Consul is Jia Penhallow. Brother Shadrach paused. He and the others made a soundless tableau, ranged against the members of the Cohort. Open the gates. There was a silence. Balogh's face worked. "No!" It was Paige Ashdown. There was a high, angry note in her voice-- the same sharp and mean tone she'd always used when she called Ty names, when she sneered at Dru's clothes and weight. "You can't tell us what to do--" Brother Shadrach raised his right hand. So did each of the other Brothers. There was a sound like something enormous tearing in half, and the gates blew open, slamming into the Cohort members as if they had been smacked by a gigantic hand. The air was full of the sound of their yells as they were knocked aside; the gates yawned open, and beyond them, Dru could see the Imperishable Fields, green under a gray sky and overrun with fighting. "Nephilim!" Jia had drawn her dao; she lowered it to point directly ahead at the raging battle. "Nephilim, go forth!" Roaring with the desire to fight, Shadowhunters began to pour out of the open gates of the city. Most of them stepped over the fallen Cohort as they rolled on the ground, groaning in pain. Only Cameron Ashdown, visible thanks to his red hair, paused to help his sister Paige to her feet. Diego and the others began to move toward the gates. Dru saw Jaime reach over and tap his brother on the shoulder; Diego nodded, and Jaime peeled off from the group and ran toward Dru. She stood frozen in surprise on her bench as he flew through the crowd toward her. He was graceful as a thrown knife, his smile as bright as the edge of its flashing blade. He reached her; with her standing on the bench, they were the same height. "We could not have done this without you," he said. "You are the one who set us free." He kissed her on the forehead, his lips light and quick. "On the battlefield, I will think of you." And he was gone, running toward his brother as Dru wished she were running toward hers. She had dreamed that she might fight too, alongside the others. But she could not leave Tavvy. She sat down on the bench and pulled him into her lap, holding him as they watched Diego and Jaime, Rayan and Divya, even Cameron Ashdown, vanishing into the crowd surging through the gates onto the Fields. <|title|>Chapter 31: A Redder Glow <|startofchapter|>"I can't believe Magnus did this to us," said Ty. He and Kit were sitting in the hollow below the oak tree, near the half-destroyed campsite. Kit was chilled from sitting on the ground for so long, but it wasn't as if he could go anywhere. Before heading out to the battlefield with the others, Magnus had fastened both Ty and Kit to the roots of the oak tree with flickering chains of light. "Sorry, guys," he'd said, blue sparks dancing from his fingers. "But I promised Julian you'd stay safe, and the best way to make sure that happens is to make sure you stay right here." "If he hadn't, you'd be following Julian and the others to the Imperishable Fields," said Kit. "You can see his reasoning." He kicked at the chain around his ankle. It was made of glimmer--there was no real substance to it, just shining loops of light, but it held him in place as tightly as if it had been made of adamas. When he touched the light itself, he got a faint shock, like the shock of static electricity. "Stop fighting it," said Ty. "We haven't been able to break out yet; we're not going to be able to now. We'll have to find another solution." "Or we could just accept that we have to wait for them to get back," said Kit, sinking back against the roots. He suddenly felt very tired--not physically, but deep down. "I don't accept that," said Ty, poking at the glimmering chain around his ankle with a stick. "Maybe you should learn to accept things that can't be changed." Ty looked up, his gray eyes flashing in his thin face. "I know what you're really talking about," he said. "You are mad at me." "Yeah," Kit said. "I'm mad at you." Ty threw the stick aside; Kit jumped. "You knew I was going to raise Livvy," he said. "You knew it all along and you told me it was fine. You went along with it until the very last minute and then you told me not to do it. I thought you cared, but you lied to me. Just like everyone else." Kit gasped with the unfairness of it. I thought you cared? He'd told Ty how much he cared and Ty had treated it like nothing. The humiliation of the night before flooded back over him in a hot wave, sparking a bitter rage. "You only care about what's best for you," he said between his teeth. "You raised Livvy for you, not for her or anyone else. You knew the damage it might do. You only thought of yourself. I wish-- I wish I'd never known you--" Ty's eyes filled with sudden tears. Shocked, Kit fell silent. Ty was Ty; he didn't weep easily, but he was wiping tears from his face with shaking hands. Kit's rage vanished; he wanted to crawl across the hollow toward Ty, who was shaking his head, saying something under his breath in a low voice-- "I'm here." Ty's expression changed completely. There were still tears on his cheeks, but his lips had parted in amazement. In wonder. She knelt at the edge of the hollow, half-transparent. The wind didn't lift the edges of her brown hair, nor did she shiver in her long white dress. The dress he had wondered about the night before, thinking she would never have chosen it. Only now did Kit realize that she hadn't: The dress was what she had been burned in, a Shadowhunter funeral dress. "Livvy," Ty said. He tried to stand, but the cord of light around his ankle jerked him back down. He tumbled onto some moss. The ghost of Livvy Blackthorn smiled. She came down into the hollow-- not climbing or falling, but drifting, like a feather on the wind. "What are you doing?" asked Ty as she knelt down beside him. "I shouldn't have been so angry with you last night," said Livvy. "You meant well." "You came to apologize?" said Kit. Livvy turned to look at him. The gold locket gleamed at her throat. It was strange to see two of it--the one Ty wore, real and shining, and the one that flickered on Livvy's neck. A whisper of her memories? Death's way of projecting an image of what people expected Livvy to look like? "I forgot," Livvy said. "You can see ghosts, Herondale." She sounded like Livvy. But not like Livvy. There was a cool distance in her tone, and real Livvy would have called him Kit. Still, she bent to touch Ty's ankle gently, and at her touch, Magnus's chain of light flickered and vanished. Ty struggled to his knees. "Why did you do that? Because you're sorry?" "No," said Livvy. "Ghosts don't really do things because they're sorry." She touched Ty's cheek, or at least she tried--her fingers passed through the outline of his body. Ty shivered but kept his gaze locked on her. "Julian and Mark and Helen and Emma are at the Imperishable Fields," said Livvy, her eyes unfocused, as if she were seeing what was happening elsewhere. "You must go to help them. You must fight in the battle. They need you on their side." As if it were an afterthought, she turned and touched Kit's chain. It vanished--and so did Livvy. She bent her head and was gone, not even a wisp of mist to show she had ever been there. Devastation passed across Ty's face and Kit felt a stab of pity. What would it be like for him, even if Livvy came and went as a ghost? She would never stay long, and there was no way to be sure that if she did go, she would return. It would be like losing her again and again and again. Ty got to his feet. Kit knew he would say nothing about Livvy. "You don't have to come to the battle," Ty said. "You can stay here." He began to scramble out of the hollow. Wordlessly, Kit followed. Cristina knew her Shadowhunter history better than most. As she raced across the green grass, she thought of the past: that here on the Imperishable Fields was where Jonathan Shadowhunter had battled a legion of demons. As she ran, slashing out with her sword, she followed in his footsteps. Mark was at her side. He was armed with a bow, lighter and smaller than Alec's, but capable of shooting with speed and precision. The Unseelie army surged toward them as they pushed their way toward Kieran, and Mark's hand went to his bow over and over, felling trolls and ogres with elf-bolts to the throat and chest. Cristina swung at the smaller, faster redcaps, hacking and slashing, noting with a distant horror that their own blood vanished against their already bloodstained uniforms. A roar went up from behind them. "What's that?" Mark demanded, wiping blood and sweat from his eyes. "Reinforcements coming to join Horace and the others," Cristina said grimly. "They were on guard around the city." Mark swore under his breath. "We have to get to Kieran." Cristina imagined Mark was having the same panic she was--there was only one of Kieran, and a mass of redcaps and Unseelie foot soldiers, from kelpies to goblins, who had sworn loyalty to Oban. In whatever direction she glanced, she saw Unseelie folk locked in battle with Downworlders and Shadowhunters: Simon and Isabelle were holding off imps with sword and whip, Alec felling ogres one after another with his bow, Maia and Bat tearing at trolls with claws and teeth. In the distance, she saw Emma and Julian fighting back-to-back, and Jace, locked in a fight with Timothy Rockford-- but why was Jace using the flat of his blade...? "There he is," Mark said. They had crested a hill; down the slope was Kieran. He carried the sword Nene had given him and was facing off against a broad-shouldered redcap in massive iron boots. Mark swore. "They call him General Winter because he can wipe out a whole village faster than a deadly frost." "I remember him." Cristina shivered--she recalled the fierce fighting of the redcaps in the throne room of the Unseelie Court. "But--he'll kill Kieran. I've read about redcaps. Mark, this is bad." Mark didn't disagree. He was gazing at Kieran with worried eyes. "Come on." They made their way down the slope, running past a number of Unseelie soldiers who were racing for the thick of the battle. Oban was still surrounded by a circle of goblins, protecting him: A few redcaps had formed a loose group around Winter and Kieran. They seemed to have congregated to enjoy the fight. The redcaps cheered as Winter lunged with his swordstaff, landing a glancing blow against Kieran's shoulder. Kieran's white shirt was already striped with blood. His hair was white, the color of snow or ash, his cheekbones blazing with color. He parried the next blow of the swordstaff and lunged for Winter's torso; the redcap general barely slid aside in time to avoid the thrust. Winter laughed. "What a pity! You fight like a King," he said. "In a hundred years you might have been good enough to face me." "Bastard " Mark hissed. "Cristina--" She was already shaking her head. "If we go for Winter now, the other guards will fall on us," she said. "Quick--signal Gwyn. He'll attack Oban. It might give us a chance." Mark's eyes flashed with realization. He cupped a hand around his mouth and whistled, the low, humming, Wild Hunt whistle that seemed to vibrate inside Cristina's bones. A shadow passed across the sky. It wheeled and returned: Gwyn on the back of Orion. He flew low over the field; Cristina saw Diana turn and reach up her arms. A moment later Gwyn had swung her up beside him on Orion. They soared back up into the air, Diana and the leader of the Wild Hunt. Together, they flew low over the goblins surrounding Oban. Diana, her dark hair flying behind her, bent low from the horse's back, swinging her sword down, slicing across the chest of a goblin guard. The others yelled and began to scatter as Diana harried them from the sky, Gwyn grinning beneath his helmet. But Kieran was still in desperate trouble. He was barely holding off Winter, whose swordstaff rang again and again against his blade. As Cristina watched in horror, one of Winter's blows knocked Kieran to the ground; he rolled aside and sprang to his feet, barely missing a second, deadly strike. Mark and Cristina took off running toward him, but a redcap guard who had been watching the fight swung around to block their path. At this close range, Mark's bow was of less use; he drew a shortsword from his belt and flung himself at the guard, hacking fiercely at the redcap as he tried to reach Kieran. Another guard rose up in front of Cristina; she dispatched him with a slashing blow, rolling under the stabbing path of another spear. A metal boot crashed into her side and she cried out, feeling her ribs break. Agonizing pain seared through her as she crumpled to the ground. Meanwhile, Oban's goblin guard had had enough. Dropping their weapons in their haste to escape, they fled away from Oban into the thick of the battle, Diana and Gwyn following. Oban, abruptly alone in the field, looked around in furious panic before seizing up a goblin's sword. "Come back, you bastards!" he shouted. "Come back here! I order you!" Gasping in agony, Cristina tried to push herself to her feet. The sear of broken bones made her jackknife against the ground; she saw two redcaps above her and thought: This is the end. They fell, one on either side of her, both dead. A blood-covered Mark leaned over her, his face white. "Cristina! Cristina!" Cristina caught at Mark, gasping in pain. "Iratze." Mark fumbled for his stele as Winter shouted aloud. "King Oban!" Cristina turned her head to the side. Winter stood over Kieran, who was crumpled on the ground, his sword lying shattered at his side. Cristina's heart sank even as Mark drew a swift iratze on her skin. She barely noticed the pain depart. Oh, Kieran. "General Winter!" Oban cried, waving his hands at the redcap standing over Kieran as if he were swatting at a fly. Stained lace flew from his sleeves and his velvet breeches were crushed beyond repair. "I command you to kill the traitor!" Winter shook his head slowly. He was a massive figure, his shoulders almost splitting the seams of his blood-dyed uniform. "You must do this, sire," he said. "It is the only way to render your claim on the throne a true one." With a petulant frown, Oban, sword at his side, stalked forward, crossing the swatch of grass between himself and Kieran. Mark looked down at Cristina. She nodded, yes, and he thrust out a hand, raising her to her feet. They looked at each other once. Then Mark broke to the right, darting toward Winter and Kieran. Cristina strode to the left and stepped directly in front of Oban. "You will not touch Kieran," she said. "You will not take another step." She heard Winter cry out in surprise. Mark had thrown himself on the redcap general's back. Winter flung him off, but not before Kieran had staggered to his feet. Oban looked at Cristina with exasperation. "Do you know who I am, Shadowhunter girl?" he demanded. "Do you dare to cross the path of the Unseelie King? You are no one and nothing important." Cristina raised her sword between herself and Oban. "I am Cristina Mendoza Rosales, and if you hurt or kill Kieran, then you will have to deal with me." She saw the flicker in Oban's silvery eyes and wondered why she had thought he looked like Kieran. They were nothing alike. "You are not such stuff as Kings are made of," she said in a low voice. "Run, now. Leave this behind you and live." Oban glanced at Winter, who was battling both Mark and Kieran; they were pressing him back, and back. Dead redcaps lay scattered around the field; the grass was slippery with blood. In the distance, Gwyn and Diana circled on Orion. In Oban's eyes Cristina saw his horror, not at the death around him but at the vision of all of it slipping away--kingship, riches, power. "No!" he cried, and lunged at her with his sword. Cristina met Oban's blow with her own, swinging her sword in a savage arc. Surprise flickered in his eyes as their blades rang together. He fell back in surprise, but recovered quickly. He was a drunk and a wastrel, but still a prince of Faerie. When he lunged again, teeth bared, his sword clanged against hers hard enough to ring down through her bones. She stumbled, caught herself, and slashed at him again--and again. He met her blows, his own sword swift and furious. The tip of it nicked her shoulder and she felt the blood begin to flow. Cristina began to pray. Blessed be the Angel, my strength, who teaches my hands for war, and my fingers to fight. All her life she had wanted to do something to ease the pain of the Cold Peace. Here was her chance. Raziel had brought it to her. She would do this for Emma, for the Blackthorns, for Diego and Jaime, for Mark and Kieran, for all the Rosaleses. For everyone harmed by the peace that was truly a war. A calm stillness filled her heart. She raised her blade as if it were Glorious, as if it were a shining blade of heaven. She saw fear in Oban's eyes, even as he moved to strike out at her again, bringing his sword around in a sideways arc. She spun in a full circle, avoiding his blow, and as she turned she drove her blade between his ribs. A sigh seemed to pass through the world. She felt the metal of her sword grind against bone, felt hot blood splash over her fist. She jerked the sword back; Oban staggered, gazing down in disbelief at the blood spreading across the front of his doublet. "You," he breathed, still in disbelief. "Who are you?" No one important. But there was no point speaking. Oban had slumped to the ground, his hands falling loose at his sides, his eyes filming over. He was dead. Mark and Kieran were battling desperately and heedlessly on. Cristina knew they were fighting not for their own lives but for each other. "Prince Oban is dead!" she shouted. "Oban is dead!" She stepped forward on the blood-wet grass, calling to Winter, to Mark and Kieran, to everyone who could hear. It was General Winter who heard her cry. He stood, as tall and forbidding as a wall between Cristina and the boys she loved. His red-capped head turned. His red eyes took in Cristina, and then what lay behind her, a heap of blood and velvet. His knuckles where he held his sword went white. For a moment Cristina pictured him taking his revenge for his King on Kieran and Mark. Her breath caught in her throat. Ponderous and terrifying as an avalanche, Winter sank slowly to his knees. He bowed his blood-darkened head. His voice boomed like thunder as he said, "My liege lord, King Kieran." Kieran and Mark stood side by side, blades still held high, breathing in hard jolting unison. Cristina walked across the blood-drenched earth to stand so she and Mark were flanking Kieran. Kieran's face was deadly pale. There was a forlorn, lost look about him, but his eyes searched Cristina's face as if he might find himself there. She clasped his hand. Kieran's eyes traveled from Cristina to Mark, and his chin lifted. He stood with his back straight as a blade. Cristina watched him set his slender shoulders as if preparing to bear a heavy burden. She swore an oath silently to herself: She and Mark would help him bear it. "Prince Oban is dead," Mark said. His voice lifted to the skies, to Diana and Gwyn circling high above their heads. "Kieran Kingson is the new King of Unseelie! Long live the King!" They had made it to the edge of the forest, half-running the whole way, tripping over tree roots in their haste to get to the Imperishable Fields. There was no defined border between the Fields and the forest: The trees thinned out and Ty stopped dead, his breath catching. Kit stopped beside him, staring. It looked like a movie. He couldn't help the thought, though he felt vaguely ashamed of it--like a movie with incredible effects and attention to every detailed piece. He had thought of battles as organized, two lines of soldiers advancing on each other. Instead, this was chaos--less a chess game than a collapsed Jenga tower. Soldiers fought in clumps, rolled into ditches, spread in haphazard patterns across the Fields. The air stank of blood and roiled with noise--the clang of metal on metal, soldiers shouting, the howl of wolves, the screams of the wounded. The noise. Kit turned to Ty, who had gone pale. "I can't--I didn't bring my headphones," Ty said. Kit hadn't remembered them either, but then he hadn't really expected to be in the fight. He hadn't even imagined there would be a fight on this scale. It was massive. The gates of the city of Alicante were open, and more Shadowhunters were pouring out, adding to the noise and chaos. Ty couldn't do this. He wouldn't survive being at the center of that with nothing to protect his ears, his eyes. "Do you see Julian?" Kit asked. Maybe if Julian was nearby, if they could just get to him-- Ty's expression cleared slightly. "Hold on." He checked the inside of his jacket, where he'd stashed several knives and a slingshot. He had a pocketful of stones as well; Kit had seen them earlier. Ty jogged to the nearest tree--a big, spread-branched oak--and began to shinny up it. "Wait!" Kit ran to the base of the trunk and looked up. Ty was already vanishing among the leaves. "What are you doing?" "I might be able to see the others from a higher vantage," Ty called down. A branch rattled. "There they are--I see Alec. And Jace; he's fighting some of the Cohort. Mark and Cristina are over by the redcaps. There's Helen--a troll is coming up on her from behind--" There was a whistling rattle and a rustle of leaves. "Not anymore," Ty added in a pleased voice, and Kit realized he must have used his slingshot. "Kit, come up here--you can see everything." There was no answer. Ty leaned down through the branches, searching the forest floor below the oak. It was bare. Kit was gone. Alec had found himself a rock, one of the few on the Fields. This was a good thing, because he was at his best from a slight elevation--as Jace jogged toward him, weaving through Unseelie soldiers and friendly Downworlders alike, he watched with brotherly admiration as Alec let arrow after arrow fly with deadly speed and more deadly precision. "Alec." Jace reached Alec. A troll was running toward them, its tusks stained with blood, its ax raised. Its eyes gleamed with hate. Jace tugged a knife from his belt and flung it and the troll went down, gurgling, the blade in its throat. "What is it?" Alec didn't glance at him. He nocked his bow again, drew, and impaled a glass-toothed goblin that had been running toward Simon. Simon gave him an offhand salute and went back to fighting a mossy thing Jace suspected was a dryad gone wrong. "The gates of the city are open--" "I noticed." Alec shot the dryad. It ran off toward the trees. "More Cohort members are coming onto the field." "So are more of our allies. Jia's here," said Alec. "True." An ogre came at Jace from the left. He cut it down with quick efficiency. "Where's Magnus?" Alec watched Simon with narrow eyes; he'd joined Clary in cutting down a redcap. The redcaps were the deadliest faerie soldiers on the field, but Jace was pleased to see Clary handle hers with aplomb. She slashed at its knees, and when it fell, Simon lopped off its head. Good solid parabatai work. "Why do you want to know where Magnus is?" Alec said. "Because these Cohort members are all Shadowhunters" Jace said frankly. "I've been trying not to kill them. I've been using the flat of my blade, whacking them on the heads when they go down, or letting Clary use her knockout runes, but it's a lot harder not killing people than killing them." He sighed and threw a knife at an attacking pixie. "We could use Magnus's help." "You know," Alec said, "vampires are really good at taking people down without killing them. Just grab a person, drink enough blood to make them pass out, and voila." "Not helpful," Jace said. Another troll rushed at them. Jace and Alec reached for their weapons at the same time. The troll eyed them, turned, and ran off. Alec laughed. "You're in luck, parabatai," he said, and pointed toward the edge of Brocelind Forest. Jace followed his gesture. The edge of the trees was deeply shaded, but Clary had put Farsight runes on him earlier. He could even see a small figure perched halfway up an oak tree, using a slingshot to take down Unseelie soldiers. Interesting. He also saw Magnus, who had just stepped out of the shadows beneath the trees. He was in full warlock regalia--a cloak of black sewn with silver stars, silver chains at his throat and wrists, hair spiked to maximum height. Blue fire spread from his hands. It flowed up into the air, and the already thick clouds began to draw together. Clary jogged over to them, picking her way among dead trolls and ogres. She was beaming. "I thought he was worried he couldn't do it!" she exclaimed. "He looks so cool." "Just watch," Alec said, winking at her. "And he does look cool." He shot an approaching troll, just in case anyone was worried he was slacking off. Jace hadn't been. The field was starting to roil in chaos, werewolves and warlocks, faeries and Shadowhunters, turning to look at Magnus as blue- black magic unfurled from his hands, spreading into the sky. The sky itself began to darken. It was as if a sheet were being drawn across it: Light filtered down, but not all light--a dim bluish light like the illumination of stars or moonshine. Gwyn and Diana circled against the darkening sky. Magnus began to sway. Jace sensed Alec tensing up. This was immense magic--the kind that could drain a warlock's power. Another figure stepped from the woods. A man with green skin and curling horns, hair as white as Catarina's. He wore jeans and a black T-shirt with white lettering. He placed his hand on Magnus's shoulder. "Is that Ragnor Fell in a 'Ragnor Lives' T-shirt?" said Clary in amazement. Ragnor was one of Magnus's oldest friends and had spent several years pretending to be dead and then several more pretending to be a warlock called Shade. Jace and Clary had good cause to know him well. "I wouldn't wear a 'Simon Lives' T-shirt to a battle," said Simon, who was standing within earshot. "Seems like asking for trouble." Alec laughed. "I think he'll be okay," he said as Ragnor held fast to Magnus and Magnus raised his hands, releasing more blue-black light. "He's just giving Magnus some of his strength." The sky had turned dark as sunset, without the gleam of the setting sun. Magnus lowered his hands as from the woods behind him, protected by the new darkness, exploded the vampires--Lily in the lead, racing across the field to join the battle. "I know what you said," said Jace, watching as the vampires closed the gap between themselves and the Cohort, "but did the vampires get the memo about not killing Shadowhunters?" Alec grinned. "By the Angel!" Aline swore, her mouth dropping open. Helen whipped around, raising her sword. Fighting alongside the people you loved was always terrifying. You weren't just battling to protect yourself; you were fighting for them as well. She would have battled a Greater Demon bare-handed to save Aline. Aline caught at Helen's sword arm. "My mom!" She was almost incoherent. "They're coming out of the city--and my mom is with them!" The gates of Alicante had been thrown wide and Shadowhunters were pouring through. At the head of the cavalcade she could see Jia, dressed in battle gear with a massive curved dao in her hand and Centurions--Diego, Rayan, Divya, and others--on either side of her. Scariest mother-in-law ever, Helen thought. Helen and Aline raced toward the new arrivals. As they got closer, Aline broke free and ran to throw her arms around her mother. Jia lowered her sword and hugged her daughter fiercely with her free arm, their dark heads bent together. "Where's Dad?" Aline said, drawing back to study her mother's face. "Still in the city. He's coordinating with Carmen Mendoza and the Silent Brothers to make sure that people inside stay safe." "But how did you get out of the Gard?" Aline asked. Jia almost smiled. "Drusilla let us out last night. She's a very enterprising child! Speaking of Blackthorns, Helen, come here." A little hesitant, Helen approached Jia. She'd always thought her mother- in-law was impressive, but she'd never been more intimidating than in this moment. Jia put an arm around her and hugged her so tightly Helen remembered her own mother Eleanor and the strength of her embrace. "My darling, you've done such a wonderful job at the Institute," Jia said. "I am so proud." Divya sniffled. "That is so sweet." Jia ended the hug, all business again. "All right, everyone, enough gawking. We are entering a battle, one where we will be fighting other Shadowhunters. Ones we would prefer not to kill. We need to make a Malachi Configuration." Helen dimly remembered what a Malachi Configuration was--a temporary magical prison created by adamas and runes. It was sometimes used by the Inquisitor or the Silent Brothers when they had no other way to hold a prisoner. Diego responded first. "On it!" He grabbed a seraph blade and crossed over into the edge of the Fields before kneeling to stab it into the earth. "I'll take north; Divya, you go south; Rayan, go east. We need to mark the four cardinal directions." "Bossy, bossy," said Divya, but she was smiling. Aline moved to help as well, going to the western point. The rest of the newcomers were drawing weapons. Jaime had his crossbow out and was clearly itching to jump into the fight. Jia said, "Remember what Drusilla said about the Watch's plan. Try not to kill Cohort members if you have a choice. Herd them back here toward the configuration. They're still Shadowhunters, even if they are misguided." With whoops and cries the Shadowhunters raced onto the field and plunged into the battle just as a sweet chiming noise sounded and the Malachi Configuration flared up. Light poured from the four angel blades, forming a cage whose walls were made of shifting light. It looked delicate as butterfly wings, prismatic as glass. Helen gazed at the configuration and hoped that their plan to spare the lives of the Cohort would not be in vain. The luminous walls of the prison looked too fragile to hold so much hate. "Let me go!" Kit yelled. He knew it wouldn't do much good. Emma had him firmly by the back of the shirt and was marching him along the edge of the forest, keeping to the shadows. She looked absolutely furious. "What are you doing here?" she demanded. She held her golden sword in her free hand, her gaze darting around in mingled anger and watchfulness. "When I sawyou I almost had a heart attack! You're supposed to be at camp!" "What about Ty?" Kit said, twisting against Emma's iron grip. "He's back there! He's up a tree. We can't just leave him alone." Something whistled over their heads, and an approaching ogre went down in a heap, a neat circle punched into the middle of its forehead. "He seems to be doing fine," Emma said dryly. "Besides, I promised Tessa I wouldn't let you near battles or faeries and this is a battle full of faeries. She's going to kill me." Kit was stung. "Why no battles or faeries? I'm not that bad of a fighter!" Emma swung him around so he faced her, thankfully letting go of the back of his shirt as she did so. "It's not about that!" she said angrily. Her gear was dirty and bloodstained, her face scratched and cut. Kit wondered where Julian was --parabatai usually fought in battle together, didn't they? "I don't see what's so important about me," Kit said. "You're more important than you think," Emma said. Her eyes went suddenly wide. "Oh no." "What?" Kit looked around wildly. At first he saw nothing unusual--or at least, nothing unusual for a huge ongoing brawl between faeries and Shadowhunters. Then a shadow fell over them, and he realized. The last time he had seen the Riders of Mannan had been in London. There were six of them now, gleaming in bronze and gold; their horses were shod with gold and silver, their eyes inky black. The Riders wore armor without joints or rivets to hold it together--a smooth, liquidy bronze that covered them from neck to foot like the gleaming carapaces of insects. "Get behind me, Kit." Emma had gone pale. She stepped in front of Kit, lifting Cortana. "Stay down. They're probably coming for me, not you." The Riders hurtled toward them, like a shower of falling stars. They were beautiful and awful. Kit had taken only the Herondale dagger Jace had given him. He realized now how unprepared he had been. How foolish. One of the Riders jerked and yelled, clasping at his arm. Ty's slingshot, Kit realized, and felt a rush of reluctant warmth and a sudden stab of fear--what if he never saw Ty again? The struck Rider spat a curse; they were almost overhead, and Kit saw their faces--their bronze hair, their sharp cold features. "Six of you against one?" Emma shouted, the wind whipping her hair. "Are you that dishonorable? Come down one by one and fight me! I dare you!" "It seems you cannot count, little Shadowhunting murderer," said Ethna, the only woman among the Riders. "There are two of you." "Kit is a child," said Emma, which annoyed Kit even as he realized she was probably right to say it. Kieran's voice was in his head: The children of Mannan have never been defeated. Across the field, Julian was running toward them. Helen ran alongside him, and Aline. But they would never reach Emma and Kit in time. "Kit is the child," said Etarlam with a smirk. "The descendant of the First Heir." "Give him to us," said Karn. "Give him to us and we might spare you." Kit's throat had gone dry. "That's not right," he said. "I have no faerie blood. I'm a Shadowhunter." "One can be both," said Ethna. "We guessed it when we saw you in that dirty city." She meant London, Kit thought dizzily. He remembered Eochaid looking at him, saying: I know you. I know your face. "You look just like her," said Eochaid now with a smirk. "Just like Auraline. And just like your mother." "We slew her," said Ethna. "And now we will slay you, too, and wipe out any trace of your tainted bloodline from this world and ours." "What?" Kit forgot his fear, forgot Emma's exhortation that he stay behind her. Forgot that anyone was coming to help them. Forgot everything except Ethna's words. "You killed my mother? My mother?" "What did you think happened to her, child?" Ethna said. "Yes, we spilled her blood at the King's orders. She died screaming for you, though even when we tortured her, she never spoke your name or revealed your whereabouts. Perhaps that will be a comfort for you, in these last moments!" She burst out laughing, and in a moment, the Riders were all laughing, their horses rearing back against the sky. Cold fire spread through Kit's veins; he moved toward the Riders, as if he could reach up and pull them from the sky. He felt the Talent rune Ty had given him begin to burn on his upper arm. Emma swore, trying to grab at Kit and draw him behind her. "You can't," she was saying. "You can't, they're unbeatable, Kit --" The Riders drew their swords. Metal flashed in the sky. They blocked out the sun as they hurtled down toward Emma and Kit. Emma raised her sword as Ethna, blaze-eyed astride her stallion, smashed into her, blade against blade. Emma was lifted off her feet and hurled backward. She hit the turf with an impact Kit could hear. She scrambled to her feet as Ethna wheeled her steed around, laughing, and started to race to Kit, but the others were coming --they were driving their horses toward Kit with such force that the grass below them flattened--he raised his hands as if he could ward them off with a gesture, and heard Eochaid laugh-- Something inside him cracked apart, flooding his body with power. It surged through him, electric, exploding from the palms of his hands with enough force to press him to his knees. Emma looked at him incredulously as white light shot from his hands and surrounded the Riders like a net. Kit could hear them screaming in horror and surprise; they urged their horses higher, into the sky-- He closed his hands into fists, and the horses vanished. Winked out of existence between one breath and the next. The Riders, who had already plunged high into the sky to get away, fell screaming through the air to the ground; they crashed down among the surge of battle and disappeared from view. Kit rolled onto his back on the grass. He was gasping for breath. Dying, he thought. I'm dying. And I cannot be who they said I am. It's impossible. "Kit!" Emma was crouching over him, pulling the collar of his shirt aside to place an iratze there. "Kit, by the Angel, what did you do?" "I don't--know." He felt like there was no breath in his body. His fingers scrabbled weakly against the dirt. Help me, Emma. Help me. Tell Ty-- "It's all right." There was someone else bending over him, someone with a familiar face and calming voice. "Christopher. Christopher, breathe." It was Jem. Closing his eyes, Kit let Jem's gentle arms lift him from the ground, and darkness came down like the curtain at the end of a play. "Emma!" Dazed, Emma stumbled a little as she straightened up. She had been bending over Kit, and then Jem had come--and Kit was gone. She was still dizzy from the shock of the Riders' attack and the strangeness that had followed. Kit had made the Riders' steeds disappear and they'd fallen into the crowd of battle, wreaking havoc. And now Julian was here, looking at her with worry and concern. "Emma," Julian said again, putting his hands on her shoulders and turning her to look at him. "Are you all right?" "Aline and Helen," she said breathlessly. "They were with you--" "They went back to help the others," he said. "The Riders are causing chaos on the field--" "I'm sorry," Emma said, "I didn't know that Kit--" "I'm not sorry," Julian said, and there was a savagery in his tone that made her look up, her head clearing. Julian's face was smudged with blood and dirt. His gear was ripped at the shoulder, his boots thick with churned mud and blood. He was beautiful. "Whatever happened, whatever Kit did, he saved your life. The Riders would have killed you." She was breathless with fear, not for herself but for Julian. The Riders hated them both. Gwyn and Diana were circling over the Fields, calling out that Oban was dead, that Kieran was King. Perhaps Kieran could order the Riders around--perhaps not. At the moment, they had not sworn allegiance to him. They were masterless, here for blood and vengeance, and very dangerous. "Do you need an iratze?" Julian was still holding her shoulders. She wanted to hug him, wanted to touch his face and make sure he was whole and unharmed. She knew she couldn't. "No," Emma said. Runes between them were too dangerous. "I'm fine." Slowly he bent his head and touched his forehead to hers. They stood for a moment, motionless. Emma could feel the parabatai energy in them both, vibrating beneath their skin like an electric current. There was no one around them; they were at the very edge of the battle, almost in the woods. She felt herself smile a little. "Ty's up a tree with a slingshot," she said, almost in a whisper. Julian drew back, a look of amusement ghosting across his face. "I know. Safest place for him, I guess, though when I find out how he got out of Magnus's enchantment, I'm not sure which of them I'm going to kill." There was a sudden commotion; Emma looked over at the field and saw flashes of bronze. The Riders had regrouped; they were laying about themselves with their blades, cutting a path through the Shadowhunters. Several bodies lay crumpled on the ground: with a pang, she recognized Vivianne Penhallow's strawberry-blond hair, now flecked with blood. Emma grabbed Cortana. "Julian--where's the Mortal Sword?" "Gave it to Jace," he said as they both hurried across the trampled grass. "I hated carrying that thing around. He'll enjoy it." "Probably," Emma admitted. She looked around: The skies overhead roiled blue-black. The bodies of Downworlders and Shadowhunters were scattered across the field; as they pressed on, Emma nearly stepped on a corpse in a Centurion uniform, eyes rolled to the sky. It was Timothy Rockford. She fought down a wave of nausea and turned away. A redcap surged up behind her. She raised Cortana, the blade slicing the air. "Emma!" Julian caught at her shoulder. "It's all right," he said as the redcap turned and vanished back into the crowd. "The Unseelie soldiers don't know what to do. Some are still following Oban. Some are retreating at Kieran's orders. It's chaos." "So it could be ending?" she said, breathless. "We could be winning?" He drew the back of his hand across his face, smudging more dirt on his cheekbones. His eyes were brilliant blue-green in the odd light of the clouds; his gaze ran up and down her, and she recognized his look as the embrace he couldn't give, the words he couldn't say. "The Cohort won't give up," he said instead. "They're still fighting. We're trying not to harm them, but they're not making it easy." "Where's Horace?" Emma demanded, craning her head to see what was happening across the field. "He's kept himself surrounded by his followers," Julian said, leaping over the body of a dead troll. "Jace and the others are trying to get to him, but the Cohort are willing to die for him and we don't want to kill them. Like I said, they're not making it easy." "We should get back and help." She started to head across the field, Julian beside her. Downworlders flashed past them, hurling themselves at Unseelie faeries and Cohort Nephilim. Jessica Beausejours was struggling to fend off a black-haired vampire with a seraph blade, while nearby a werewolf rolled on the ground with a massive troll, two sets of fangs snapping. Emma heard someone yell. It was Mark--she could see Cristina, too, not far away, sword to sword with Vanessa Ashdown. Cristina was fighting carefully, trying not to hurt Vanessa; Vanessa was showing no such care--she held a swordstaff in her hand and was pushing Cristina back with slamming blows. Mark, though--Mark was facing Eochaid. A Rider had found him. Emma and Julian took off instantly, racing toward Mark. He was backing away, bow in hand, taking careful aim, but each arrow that hit Eochaid seemed only to slow him down, not to stop him. No one's killed one of Mannan's Riders in all the history I know. Emma had killed one of the Riders. But Emma had Cortana. Mark had only an ordinary bow, and Cristina and Kieran were both caught up in the vast crowd. They could never make it to Mark in time. Emma heard Julian whisper his brother's name. Mark. They were racing flat-out over the uneven ground--Emma could feel the parabatai energy driving them forward--when something reared up and struck her. She went flying, hit the ground, rolled to her feet. Standing in front of her was Zara. She was cut and filthy, her long hair matted in clumps of blood and dirt. Her colorful Centurion gear had been cut to ribbons. There were tracks of dirty tears on her face, but her hands, gripping a longsword, were steady. As was her gaze, fixed on Cortana. "Give me back my sword, you bitch," she snarled. Arrested by Emma's fall, Julian spun around and saw his parabatai facing Zara Dearborn. Zara was whipping her sword back and forth while Emma watched her with a puzzled look: Zara wasn't a very good fighter, but she wasn't this bad. Emma met Julian's eyes as she raised Cortana: Go, go to Mark, her expression said. Julian hesitated a moment--but Emma could more than handle Zara. He whirled around and ran for his brother. Mark was still fighting, though he was pale, bleeding from a cut across his chest. Eochaid seemed to be playing with him, as a cat might play with a mouse, thrusting his sword and then turning it aside to slash rather than stab. It would mean a slow death of cuts and bloodletting. Julian felt the sourness of rage in the back of his throat. He saw Cristina slam the hilt of her sword against Vanessa's head; Cameron's cousin went down hard and Cristina turned, sprinting toward Mark. Another Rider cut her off. Julian's heart sank; he was nearly there, but he recognized Ethna, with her long bronze braid and vicious scowl. She carried a sword in one hand, a staff in the other, and swung out at Cristina, knocking her hard to the ground. "stop! " The word was a gravel-toned bellow. Cristina and Mark were both on the ground; their opponents turned, staring. Kieran stood before them, his shoulder knotted with white bandages. It was Winter who had spoken: The redcap stood upright, swordstaff in hand. He pointed the sharp end of it at Eochaid. "Stop," he said again. "The King commands that you stand down." Eochaid and Ethna exchanged a look. Their metallic eyes simmered with rage. They would not soon forget being cast down from the sky and humiliated. "We will not," said Eochaid. "Our King was Arawn the Elder. He commanded us to slay the Blackthorns and their allies. We shall enact that command and no word from you shall change it." "We have not yet sworn allegiance to you," said Ethna. "You are not our King." Julian wondered if Kieran would flinch. He didn't. "I am your King," he said. "Leave them be and return to Unseelie or be considered traitors." "Then we will be traitors," said Ethna, and brought her longsword down. It never struck its target. The air seemed to ripple, and suddenly Windspear was diving toward Ethna, rearing back: He struck Ethna full in the chest with his front hooves. There was a clang as she was flung backward. A moment later, Cristina was on her feet, her wrist bleeding but her grip on her sword steady. "Go to Mark!" she shouted, and Kieran leaped onto Windspear's back and plunged toward Eochaid; the Rider was like a fall of sparks, graceful and inevitable. He flew into the air, whipping around with his sword in hand, the blade clashing against Kieran's. Mark leaped into the air--a spinning, graceful leap--and caught hold of Eochaid, wrapping his arms around the Rider's throat from behind. They tumbled to the ground together; Eochaid leaped to his feet. Julian raced toward Mark, hurling himself between his brother and the Rider, bringing up his sword to parry a slashing blow. Eochaid laughed. Julian barely had time to help Mark to his feet when something struck him from behind--it was Karn the Rider, a roaring tower of bronze. Julian whirled and hit back with all his force. Karn staggered back, looking surprised. "Nice hit," Mark said. It's because of Emma. I can feel the parabatai bond burning inside me. "Thanks," he said, raising his blade to fend off another blow from Karn. Kieran and Cristina were harrying Eochaid; Ethna was battling Winter to his knees. Even the parabatai strength wasn't enough, Julian knew. The Riders were too strong. It was a matter of time. There was another flash of bronze. Mark muttered a curse: It was Delan, the one-handed Rider, drawn to his siblings. Now there were four of them: only Etarlam and Airmed were still missing, somewhere in the battle. Delan wore a bronze half mask and swung a golden spiked flail; he was running toward Kieran, the flail swinging-- An ax crashed into him from behind, sending him sprawling. It was Eochaid's turn to swear. Ethna yelled, even as Delan staggered to his feet and spun to face his attacker. It was Diego Rosales. He winked at Kieran just as the flail swung toward his head; he fended it off with the flat of his ax. Kieran, who had looked both astonished and pleased at Diego's appearance, leaped from Windspear's back and raced toward Delan. Winter darted after him as Cristina swung at Ethna There was a shattering crack as Cristina's sword broke. She gasped, leaped backward--Mark and Kieran turned, stricken--Ethna raised her blade-- And was blown off her feet. Lines of golden energy laced across the field, lifting each of the Riders into the air and sending them tumbling across the grass like scattered toys. Julian turned in astonishment to see Hypatia Vex standing nearby with her hands raised, light cascading from her fingertips. "Magnus sent me over," she said as the battling Nephilim stared at her. Even Winter was staring, looking as if he might have fallen in love. Julian suspected his chances with Hypatia weren't good. "This'll buy us some time, but they'll be back. The Riders of Mannan . . ." She sighed dramatically. "Shadowhunters. Why do I always end up mixed up in their business?" Zara was fighting like a wild thing. Emma had remembered Zara as a mediocre warrior, and she was, but from the moment their two blades had touched, Zara had been electrified. She swung her blade as if she meant to hack down a tree with it; she flung herself at Emma over and over, sloppily leaving her defenses completely open. As if she didn't care if she lived or if she died. And perversely, it was making Emma hold back. She knew she had every right and reason to strike Zara down. But Zara seemed wild with what Emma could only identify as grief--she had lost friends, Emma knew, dead on the field like Timothy. But Emma suspected her grief was more for the bitterness of losing and the sting of shame. Whatever happened, the Cohort would never regain their glory. The lies they had told would never be forgotten. Julian had seen to that. "You couldn't just leave well enough alone," Zara hissed, lunging at Emma with her wrist held stiffly. Emma evaded the blow easily without needing to parry. "You had to be the moral busybodies. You had to stick your nose in everywhere." "Zara, you took over the government," Emma pointed out, stepping aside as Zara lunged again. At this rate Zara would tire herself out. "Your father tried to murder us." "Because you wanted to hurt us," Zara hissed. "Because there's an us and a them, Emma, there always is. There's the ones who want to protect you and the ones who want to hurt you." "That's not true--" "Really?" Zara tossed her filthy, bloody hair back. "Would you have been my friend? If I'd asked you?" Emma thought of the things Zara had said about Downworlders. About Mark. About half-breeds and perverts and registries and cruelties large and small. "That's what I thought," Zara sneered. "And you think you're so much better than me, Emma Carstairs. I laughed when Livvy died, we all did, just at the looks on your smug, stupid faces--" Rage flooded through Emma, white-hot. She slashed out with Cortana, turning the blade at the last second so that the flat hit Zara, knocking her off her feet. She hit the ground on her back, coughing blood, and spat at Emma as she leaned over her, laying the tip of Cortana against her throat. "Go on," Zara hissed. "Go on, you bitch, do it, do it --" Zara was the reason they were all here, Emma thought, the reason they were all in danger: The Cohort had been the reason they had needed to fight and struggle for their lives, had been the reason Livvy had died there on the dais in the Council Hall. The yearning for vengeance was hot in her veins, burning against her skin, begging for her to thrust the blade forward and cut Zara's throat. And yet Emma hesitated. An odd voice had come into her head--a memory of Arthur Blackthorn, of all people. Cortana. Made by Wayland the Smith, the legendary forger of Excalibur and Durendal. Said to choose its bearer. When Ogier raised it to slay the son of Charlemagne on the field, an angel came and broke the sword and said to him, "Mercy is better than revenge." She had taken down the pictures in her room because she was done with vengeance. Cristina was right. She needed to be done. In that moment she knew she would never cut the parabatai rune, no matter what happened now. She had seen too many parabatai on the battlefield today. Perhaps being parabatai was a weakness that could trap you. But so was any kind of love, and if love was a weakness, it was a strength, too. She moved the sword aside. "I won't kill you." Tears spilled from Zara's eyes and streaked down her dirty face as Emma stepped away from her. A second later Emma heard Julian call her name; he was there, hauling Zara to her feet by one arm, saying something about taking her where the prisoners were. Zara was looking from him to Emma, not trying to struggle; she stayed passive in Julian's grip, but her eyes--she was looking past Julian, and Emma didn't like the look on her face at all. Zara made a little choking noise, almost a laugh. "Maybe I'm not the one you have to worry about," she said, and pointed with her free hand. Julian went white as chalk. In a cleared space on the field, under the blue-black sky, stood Annabel Blackthorn. It was as if the sight of her formed itself into a fist that punched Emma directly in the guts. She gasped. Annabel wore a blue dress, incongruous on the battlefield. A vial of red fluid glimmered at her throat. Her dark brown hair lifted and blew around her. Her lips curved into a smile. Something was wrong, Emma thought. Something was very, very wrong, and not just the fact that Annabel couldn't possibly be here. That Annabel was dead. Something was more wrong than that. "You didn't really think you could kill me, did you?" Annabel said, and Emma saw that her feet were bare, pale as white stones on the bloody ground. "You know I am made of other stuff. Better stuff than your sister. You cannot make my life run out with my blood as I squeal for mercy--" Julian let go of Zara and ran at her. He tore across the ground and flung himself at Annabel, just as Emma screamed his name, screamed at him that something was wrong, screamed at him to stop. She started toward him, and a blow hit her hard in the back. The pain came a second later, hot and red. Emma turned in surprise and saw Zara standing with a small knife in her hand. She must have taken it from her belt. The hilt was red and dripping. She had stabbed Emma in the back. Emma tried to lift Cortana, but her arm felt as if it wasn't working. Her mind, too, was racing, trying to catch up to her injury. As she tried to call out to Julian, choking on blood, Zara slammed the knife into Emma's chest. Emma's legs went out from under her. She fell. <|title|>Chapter 32: Heaven Come Down <|startofchapter|>It was all happening again. Annabel was in front of him and she was looking at him with a sneering contempt. In her eyes he could see the reflection of himself on the dais in the Council Hall, soaked in Livvy's blood. He saw her in Thule, screaming for Ash. He remembered the swing of his sword, her blood spreading all around her body. None of it mattered. She would kill Emma if she could. She would kill Mark and Helen; she would cut Ty's throat, and Dru's, and Tavvy's. She was the ghost of every fear he had ever had that his family would be taken from him. She was the nightmare he had wakened and not been able to destroy. He reached her without slowing and plunged his longsword into her body. It slid in as if there was no resistance--no bones, no muscle. Like a knife through air or paper. It sank to the hilt and he found himself staring into her bloodshot scarlet eyes, barely an inch away. Her lips drew back from her teeth in a hiss. But her eyes aren't red. They're Blackthorn blue. He jerked back, dragging the sword with him. The hilt was dark with blackish ichor. The stench of demon was everywhere. Somewhere in the back of his head he could hear Emma calling to him, shouting that something was wrong. "You're not Annabel," he said. You're a demon. Annabel began to change. Her features seemed to melt, to drip like candle wax. Beneath her pale skin and dark hair Julian could see the outlines of an unformed Eidolon demon--greasy and white, like a bar of dirty soap, pocked all over with gray craters. The glittering vial made of etched glass still dangled around its neck. "You knew my brother," the demon hissed. "Sabnock. Of Thule." Julian remembered blood. A church in Cornwall. Emma. He reached for a seraph blade on his belt and named it quickly, "Sariel." The demon was grinning. It lunged at Julian, and he plunged the seraph blade into it. Nothing happened. This can't be. Seraph blades slew demons. They always, always worked. The demon yanked the blade from its side as Julian stared in disbelief. It lunged for him, Sariel outstretched. Unprepared for the attack, Julian raised an arm to ward off the blow-- A dark shape slid between them. A kelpie, all razor-sharp, pawing hooves and fanged, glassy teeth. The faerie horse reared into the air between Julian and the Eidolon, and Julian recognized the kelpie: It was the one he had saved from Dane Larkspear. It slammed a hoof into the Eidolon's chest, and the demon flew backward, the seraph blade skidding from its hand. The kelpie glanced over its shoulder at Julian and winked, then gave chase as the Eidolon got to its feet and began to run. Julian began to follow. He had gone only a few steps when pain went through him, sudden, searing. He doubled over. The pain was all through him. His back, his chest. There was no reason for it except-- Emma. He turned around. It was all happening again. Emma was on the ground, somehow, the front of her gear wet with blood. Zara knelt over her--it seemed as if they were struggling. Julian was already running, pushing past the pain, every stride a mile, every breath an hour. All that mattered was getting to Emma. As he got closer, he saw that Zara was crouched beside Emma, trying to wrest Cortana from her red-streaked hand, but Emma's grip was too fierce. Her throat, her hair, were wet with blood, but her fingers on Cortana's hilt were unyielding. Zara glanced up and saw Julian. He must have looked like death in human form, because she scrambled to her feet and ran, vanishing into the crowd. No one else seemed to have noticed what had happened yet. A howl was building in Julian's chest. He skidded to his knees beside Emma and lifted her into his arms. She was limp in his grasp, heavy the way Livvy had been heavy. The way people felt weighted when they had stopped holding themselves up. He curled Emma in toward him and her head fell against his chest. The grass all around them was wet. There was so much blood. It was all happening again. "Livvy, Livvy, my Livvy," he whispered, cradling her, feverishly stroking her blood-wet hair away from her face. There was so much blood. He was covered in it in seconds; it had soaked through Livvy's clothes, even her shoes were drenched in it. "Livia." His hands shook; he fumbled out his stele, put it to her arm. His sword had fallen. His stele was in his hand; the iratze was a muscle memory, his body acting even without his mind's ability to comprehend what was happening. Emma's eyes opened. Julian's heart lurched. Was it working? Maybe it was working. Livvy had never even looked at him. She'd been dead when he lifted her from the dais. Emma's gaze fixed on his. Her dark brown eyes held his gaze like a caress. "It's all right," she whispered. He reached to draw another iratze. The first had vanished without a trace. "Help me," he rasped. "Emma, we need to use it. The parabatai bond. We can heal you--" "No," she said. She reached up to touch his cheek. He felt her blood against his skin. She was still warm, still breathing in his arms. "I'd rather die like this than be separated from you forever." "Please don't leave me, Emma," Julian said. His voice broke. "Please don't leave me in this world without you." She managed to smile at him. "You were the best part of my life," she said. Her hand fell slack into her lap, her eyes slipping closed. Through the crowd now Julian could see people running toward them. They seemed to be moving slowly, as if in a dream. Helen, calling his name; Mark, running desperately; Cristina beside him, crying out to Emma--but none of them would reach him in time, and besides, there was nothing they could do. He seized Emma's hand and clutched it tightly, so tightly he could feel the small bones grind under his grip. Emma. Emma, come back. Emma, we can do this. We've melted stone. You saved my life. We can do anything. He reached deep into his memories: Emma on the beach, looking back over her shoulder at him, laughing. Emma clinging to the iron bar of the Ferris wheel at Pacific Park. Emma handing him a bunch of limp wildflowers she'd picked on the day of his mother's funeral. His arms around Emma as they rode a motorcycle through Thule. Emma in her pale dress at the Midnight Theater. Emma lying in front of the fire in Malcolm's cottage. Emma. Her eyes flew open. They were full of flame, golden and bronze and copper. Her lips moved. "I remember," she said. Her voice sounded distant, almost inhuman, like the ringing of a bell. Something deep inside Julian went cold with fear and exultation. "Should I stop?" he said. "No." Emma had begun to smile. Her eyes were all fire now. "Let us burn." He put his arms around her, the parabatai connection burning between them, shimmering gold and white. The ends of her hair had begun to burn, and the tips of his fingers. There was no heat and no pain. Only the fire. It rose up to consume them in a fiery cascade. Diego flung Zara into the Malachi Configuration. There were quite a few other Cohort members in there and she staggered, nearly tripping in her effort to avoid bumping into them. Most of them were looking at her with deep dislike. Diego didn't imagine that Horace's daughter would be very popular right now. She whipped around to glare at him. There was no need for him to slam a prison door--the Configuration held whoever was inside, door or no door-- but he wished he could. "I would regard this an announcement that our engagement is over," he said. Her face screwed up in rage. Before she could reply, a pillar of white fire rose from the east, hurtling up toward the sky. Screams echoed across the battlefield. Diego whirled to take off running. A redcap loomed up in front of him, steel-tipped pike a shining arc across the sky. Agonizing pain exploded in his head before he tumbled into darkness. Mark caught Cristina's wrist and pulled her back just as white flame exploded like a tower from the place where Julian and Emma had been moments before. She knew she screamed Emma's name. Mark was pulling her back against himself; she could feel him gasping for breath. Julian, she thought. Oh God, no, not Julian. And then: This must he the curse. To bum them alive... it's too cruel -- Mark breathed, "Look." Shining figures were emerging from the fire. Not Julian and Emma, or at least, not Julian and Emma as they had been. The flames had risen at least thirty feet in the air, and the figures that emerged from them were at least that tall. It was as if Julian and Emma had been carved from shining light. . . . The details of them were there, their features and expressions, even Cortana at Emma's side, a blade of heavenly fire the size of a tree. "They're giants," Cristina heard someone say. It was Aline, staring upward, awestruck. Helen had her hand over her mouth. "Not giants," said Cristina. "Nephilim." There were giants on the earth in those days, and also afterward, when angels came in to the daughters of men and they bore children to them. She took a shuddering breath. "They were--the first." More people were crowding forward, from both sides of the battle. As the flames subsided around Emma and Julian, the sky above roiled and snapped --it was as if the heavenly fire had burned away the darkness Magnus had brought down. The shadowy clouds began to break apart and disintegrate. Terrified, the vampires began to flee the field, racing toward the forest. They ran past Magnus, who was on his knees, Ragnor beside him, blue sparks ringing his hands as if they were torn electrical wires. Cristina saw Alec running across the field; he reached Magnus just as the warlock slumped back, exhausted, into his arms. Emma--or what Emma had become, a great, shining creature--took a hesitant step forward. Cristina could hardly breathe. She had never seen an angel, but she imagined this was what it might be like to be near one. They were meant to be beautiful, terrible and awful as Heaven was awful: a light too bright for mortal eyes. No one could survive this, she thought. Not even Emma. Julian was alongside Emma; they seemed to be gaining confidence as they moved. They didn't stomp as giants might: They seemed to drift, their gestures trailed by sweeps of light. Cristina could hear the Cohort screaming as Julian bent down and picked up Horace, like a giant child plucking up a doll. Horace, who had escaped the whole battle by hiding behind his followers, was kicking and struggling, his voice a thin wail. Cristina had only a second to feel almost sorry for him before Julian caught Horace in both hands and snapped his spine in half. He tossed him aside like a broken plaything. The silence that had gripped the field was broken as people began to scream. Horace Dearborn's body hit the ground with a sickening thud, only a few feet from Manuel. This isn't happening. This can't be happening. Manuel, already on the ground, began to scramble backward. The Cohort who were trapped in the Malachi Configuration were screaming. He wished they would shut up. He desperately needed to think. Religious training from his childhood, ruthlessly quashed before now, stirred inside him. What shone above him was the power of angels--not fluffy white-winged angels, but the blood-dark angels of vengeance who had given their power to make the Shadowhunters. And it came to pass on a certain night that the angel of the Lord went out, and killed in the camp of the Assyrians one hundred and eighty five thousand; and when people arose early in the morning, there were the corpses--all dead. But it made no sense. What was happening was impossible. People did not turn into enormous shining giants and stride around battlefields dispatching their enemies. This could not possibly have been a plan that the Blackthorns and their allies had. No mortal human had access to power like that. The great shining thing that had been Emma Carstairs reached down one of its hands. Manuel shrank against the ground, but she was not looking for him. She seized hold of the crouching Eidolon demon that had been Horace's great trick and clamped her fist around it. The Eidolon demon cried out, a howl that seemed to come from the abyss between worlds. The touch of Emma's shining hand acted on it like acid. Its skin began to burn and melt; it shrieked and dissolved and slid away between her fingers like thin soup. And when people arose early in the morning, there were the corpses--all dead. Terrified, Manuel crawled toward Horace's body, still dripping with blood, and dragged it over himself. Horace had failed to protect anyone while he was alive. Perhaps things would be different now that he was dead. But how can they possibly live through this? Mark still held Cristina; neither of them seemed able to move. Aline and Helen were nearby; many other Shadowhunters were still on the field. Mark couldn't tear his eyes away from Julian and Emma. He was terrified. Not of them. He was terrified for them. They were great and shining and magnificent, and they were blank-eyed as statues. Emma straightened up from destroying the Eidolon, and Mark could see a great fissure running along her arm, where once her scar from Cortana had been. Flames leaped inside it, as if she were full of fire. Emma raised her head. Her hair flew around her like golden lightning. "RIDERS OF MANNAN!" she called, and her voice wasn't a human voice at all. It was the sound of trumpets, of thunderclaps echoing through empty valleys. "RIDERS OF MANNAN! COME AND FACE US!" "They can talk," Cristina whispered. Good. Maybe they can listen to reason. Maybe. "Emma!" Mark called. "Julian! We're here! Listen to us, were here!" Emma didn't seem to hear him. Julian glanced down, entirely without recognition. Like a mundane gazing at an anthill. Though there was nothing mundane about them. Mark wondered if this was what raising an angel had been like for Clary, for Simon. There was a stir in the crowd. The Riders, striding across the field. Their blaze of bronze shone around them, and Mark remembered Kieran whispering to him stories of the Riders who slept beneath a hill until the Unseelie King called them out to hunt. The crowd parted to let them by. The battle had ended, in any real sense: The field was full of onlookers now, staring in silence as the Riders stopped to look up at Emma and Julian. Ethna craned her head back, her bronze hair spilling over her shoulders. "We are the Riders of Mannan!" she cried. "We have slain the Firbolg! We have no fear of giants!" She launched herself into the air, and Delan followed. They sailed like bronze birds through the sky, their swords outstretched. Emma reached out almost lazily and plucked Ethna from the air. She tore her apart like tissue paper, shredding her bronze armor, snapping her sword. Julian caught Delan and hurled him back to earth with a force that tore a furrow into the dirt: Delan skidded across the ground and was still. The other Riders did not run. It wasn't in them to run, Mark knew. They did not retreat. They were without the ability to do so. Each tried to fight, and each was caught up and crushed or torn, hurled back to the ground in pieces. The earth was slick with their blood. Julian turned away from them first. He put out a blazing hand toward the Malachi Configuration and scattered it, sending the bars of light flying. The screams of the Cohort pierced the air. Cristina tore herself away from Mark and ran toward Emma and Julian. "Don't!" she cried. "Emma! Jules! They're prisoners! They can't hurt us!" Helen ran forward, her hands outstretched. "The battle is over!" she cried. "We've won--you can stop now! You killed the Riders! You can stop!" Neither Julian nor Emma seemed to hear. With a graceful hand, Emma lifted a Cohort member from the screaming throng and tossed him aside. He shrieked as he sailed through the air, his howls cut off suddenly when he hit the ground with a crushing thud. Mark had stopped worrying only whether Emma and Julian would survive this. He had begun to worry whether any of them would. Dru stood just inside the gates and gazed out onto the Imperishable Fields. She'd never seen a battle like this before. She'd been in the Accords Hall during the Dark War and seen death and blood, but the scale of this fight-- the chaos that was hard to follow, the blinding speed of the fighting--was almost impossible to look at. It didn't help that she was too far away to make out details: She saw the bronze Riders come and felt terror; she saw them tumble into the fighting crowd, but not what had happened to them afterward. Occasionally she would see the blurry figure of a man or woman fall on the field and wonder: Was it Mark? Was it Emma? The sickness of fear had taken up residence in her stomach and wouldn't budge. For the past hour, the wounded had been coming through the gates, sometimes walking, sometimes carried. Silent Brothers moved forward in swirls of bone-colored robes to carry Cohort members and ordinary Shadowhunters alike to the Basilias for healing. At one point, Jem Carstairs had come in through the gates, carrying Kit's unconscious body. She had started to run to them, and paused when she saw Tessa Gray racing through the crowd of Silent Brothers, Catarina Loss with her. Both already had blood on their clothes and had clearly been treating the wounded. She wanted to go to Kit. He was her friend, and he mattered so much to Ty. But she hung back, afraid that adults like Jem and Tessa would want her to go back to Amatis's house and she would be taken away from the gates, her only window to her family. She hung back in the shadows as Tessa helped Catarina load Kit onto a stretcher. Jem and Catarina took hold of the ends of the stretcher. Before they began to move up the hill toward the Basilias, Tessa bent and kissed Kit gently on the forehead. It eased the knot of tightness in Dru's chest--though Kit had been hurt, at least he'd be taken care of by those who cared about him. More wounded came in then, the injuries worsening as the battle raged on. Beatriz Mendoza was carried through the gates, sobbing brokenly. She wasn't visibly injured, but Dru knew that her parabatai, Julie, had been the first Shadowhunter slain in the battle. Dru wanted to turn Tavvy's face away from all of it. It wasn't the Shadowhunter way to shield children from the results of battle, but she couldn't help thinking of his nightmares, the years of listening to him scream in the darkness. "Tavs," she said finally. "Don't look." He took her hand, but he didn't turn his face away. He was staring at the battlefield, his expression intent but not fearful. He was the one who saw the giants first, and pointed. Dru's first instinct was to wonder if this was a plan of Julian's. She saw white fire blaze up and then great shining figures striding across the field. They filled her with a feeling of amazement, a shock at their beauty, the way she'd felt when she was small, looking up at illustrations of Raziel. She scanned the field anxiously--the white light of the fire was piercing the sky. The clouds were breaking up and shattering. She could hear cries, and the dark figures of vampires began to flee across the field toward Brocelind's shadows. Most of them made it. But as the clouds rolled back and the gray sunlight pierced down like a knife, Dru saw one vampire, slower than the rest, just at the border of the woods, stumble into a patch of sunlight. There was a cry and a conflagration. She pulled her gaze away from the flames. This can't be Julian's plan. Tavvy tugged on her hand. "We have to go," he said. "We have to go to Emma and Jules." She gripped him tightly. "It's a battle--we can't go out there." "We have to." There was urgency in his tone. "It's Jules and Emma. They need us." "Dru!" A cry made her look up. Two people were coming through the gates. One was Jaime. The sight of him made her heart leap: He was still alive. Dusty and scratched, his gear filthy, but alive and bright-eyed and flushed with effort. He was half-carrying Cameron Ashdown, who had an arm slung over his shoulder. Cameron appeared to be bleeding from a wound in his side. "Cameron!" Dru hurried toward them, pulling Tavvy with her. "Are you okay?" Cameron gave Dru a half wave. "Vanessa stabbed me. Some kind of demon stuff on the blade." He winced. "Your cousin stabbed you?" Dru said. She'd known the Ashdowns were split politically, but family was family in her view. "Holiday dinners will be very awkward from now on," said Jaime. He gave the other boy a pat on the back as a Silent Brother swooped down on Cameron and bore him away to the Basilias. Jaime wiped a dirty hand across his forehead. "You two should get farther away from the battle," he said. "Has no one told you not to stand in the gates?" "If we don't stand in the gates, we can't see anything," Dru pointed out. "Is that--on the field--is that really Jules and Emma?" Jaime nodded. Dru's heart sank. Some part of her had been hoping it was a terrible illusion. "I don't understand what's happening?" Her voice rose. "Is this a plan of Julian's? Do you know about it?" "I do not think it is a plan," Jaime said. "They seem entirely out of control." "Can they be stopped?" Jaime spoke reluctantly. "They killed the Riders of Mannan. Now soldiers are trying to form a wall of bodies to protect the city from them. All the children are here." He indicated Alicante. Dru thought of Max and Rafe with Maryse. Her heart skipped a beat. "I don't know what will happen." Jaime looked from her to Tavvy. "Come with me," he said abruptly. "I can get you into the woods." Dru hesitated. "We can't go away from them. We have to go to Jules and Emma," Tavvy said firmly. "It's dangerous--''Jaime began. "Tavvy's right. We have to go." Dru looked down at the incomplete rune that sprawled across her forearm. She remembered Julian putting it there yesterday; it felt forever ago. "You don't have to help." Jaime sighed and drew his crossbow from the holder on his back. "I'll cover you." Dru was about to follow Jaime out of the gates when Tavvy poked her in the side. She turned to see he was holding out her stele. "Don't forget," he said. She exhaled--she nearly had forgotten. Dru put the tip of the stele to her arm and began to complete the Familias rune. Kieran was surrounded by the Unseelie army, thirty faeries deep. This was bad enough, because he could see neither Mark nor Cristina over the churning mass of his people, but he could barely control Windspear, who was rearing and whinnying beneath him. Windspear liked neither crowds nor giants, and at the moment both were far too close. Winter was at Kieran's side. He had stuck to him like glue through the battle, which Kieran found both admirable and startling. He was not used to such loyalty. "The people have come to you, liege lord," said Winter. "What are your orders for them?" Orders for them? Kieran thought frantically. He had no idea what they should do. This was why he had wanted Adaon to be King, but Adaon was prisoner in the Seelie Court. What would Adaon say about an army of faeries trapped on a field with rampaging part-angel giants? "Why aren't they all running for the forest?" Kieran demanded. The forest was a place Fair Folk felt at home, full of natural things, water and trees. There had long been faeries in Brocelind Forest. "Sadly, the woods are full of vampires," said Winter glumly. "The vampires are our allies!" shouted Kieran, grasping Windspear's mane as the horse reared. "No one really believes that," said Winter. By all the Gods of Dark and Light. Kieran wanted to yell and break something. Windspear reared again, and this time, Kieran caught sight of a familiar figure. Mark. He would know him anywhere--and Cristina beside him. He said a silent thanks. What would they tell me to do? He thought of Mark's generosity, Cristina's kindness. They would think of the Unseelie soldiers first. "We need to get our people off this field," said Kieran. "They cannot battle angels. No one can. How did you all arrive here?" "Oban made a door," said Winter. "You can do the same, liege. Open a door to Faerie. As King you can do it. Reach out to your Land and it will reach back to you." If bloody drunk Oban did it, I can do it, Kieran thought. But that wasn't all that helpful. He had to reach out to his Land, a place he had long cursed, and hope it would reach back to him. He slid from Windspear's back as the horse stilled beneath him. He remembered Mark saying: I will not forget the beauty of Faerie and neither will you. But it will not come to that. And he thought of what he himself had said, had remembered, when he had thought Faerie was threatened. The way the water tumbles blue as ice over Branwen's Falls. The taste of music and the sound of wine. The honey hair of mermaids in the streams, the glittering of will-o'-the-wisps in the shadows of the deep forests. Kieran took a deep breath. Let me through, he thought. Let me through, my Land, for I belong to you: I will give unto you as the Kings of Faerie long have, and you will flourish when I flourish. I will bring no blight to your shores, nor blood to wither your flowers in the fields, but only peace and a kind road that rises to green hills. "My liege," said Winter. Kieran opened his eyes and saw that the low hillock before him had begun to split apart. Through the gap he could see the great tower of Unseelie rising in the distance and the peaceful fields before it. Several of the closer fey sent up a cheer. They began to run through the gap even as it widened. Kieran could see them emerging on the other side, some even falling on their knees with gratitude and relief. "Winter," he said in an unsteady voice. "Winter, get everyone through the door. Get them to safety." "All the fey?" said Winter. "Everyone," said Kieran, looking at his first in command sternly. "Shadowhunters. Warlocks. Everyone who seeks sanctuary." "And you, my liege?" said Winter. "I must go to Mark and Cristina." For the first time, Winter looked mutinous. "You must leave your mortal friends, lord." Winter was a redcap, sworn in blood to protect the King and the royal line. Kieran could not be angry with him, and yet he must make him understand. He searched for the right words. "You are my loyal guard, Winter. But as you guard me, so must you guard what I love best, and Mark Blackthorn and Cristina Rosales are what I love best in this world and all others." "But your life," said Winter. "Winter," Kieran said flatly. "I know they cannot be my consorts. But I die without them." More and more faeries were flooding through the door to the Undying Lands. There were others with them now--a few warlocks, even a band of lycanthropes. Winter set his jaw. "Then I will guard your back." Helen felt as if she were caught in the middle of a river going two ways at once. Faeries were running in one direction, toward a hilly rise at the eastern end of the field. Shadowhunters were racing in the other, toward the city of Alicante, presumably to hide behind its walls. Aline had darted off to investigate, promising to be back momentarily. Some still milled around the center of the field--the Cohort seemed to be shrieking and running in circles, willing to join neither the exodus of faeries nor fellow Shadowhunters. Helen had stayed near to where the others she knew had gathered--Kadir and Jia were helping wounded from the field, Simon and Isabelle were in conference with Hypatia Vex and Kwasi Bediako, and Jace and Clary had gone with a group of others, including Rayan and Divya, to put themselves between Emma and Julian and the Cohort prisoners. "Helen!" Aline was jogging toward her across the grass. "They're not running away." "What do you mean?" Helen said. "The Shadowhunters. They're going to protect the city, in case the giants --in case Emma and Julian make a move toward it. It's full of kids and old people. And besides," she added, "Shadowhunters protect Alicante. It's what we do." Spoken like the daughter of the Consul. "But Emma and Julian would never --they wouldn't--" Helen protested. "We don't know what they'd do," Aline said gently, just as Hypatia Vex and Kwasi Bediako rushed past them. They raced toward the trampled grass where Emma and Julian stood, and Kwasi flung out his hands as Hypatia placed her palms on his shoulders. A shimmering golden net burst into the air over Emma and Jules: It settled on them like a fine spiderweb, but Helen sensed it was made of something much stronger. Emma put up a great, shining hand to push against the net. It held fast. Kwasi was breathing fast, but Hypatia steadied him. A cry broke from Martin Gladstone. "Do it now! Round up the Blackthorns! Show those monsters what will happen to their families if they don't stop!" The Cohort sent up a cheer. Helen could hear Zara screaming that they should do it, that they had a right to protect themselves. Aline stepped in front of Helen. "That bastard!" She glowered. Julian hooked his fingers into the material of the shining net and tore it apart. It fell away, and Julian reached down to seize Gladstone. With a flick of his fingers, he snapped Gladstone's neck. Julian and Emma moved toward the other Cohort members, who began to scatter. Emma reached for Zara-- And Jace slid between them, between Emma's shimmering hand and Zara's fleeing figure. The Mortal Sword was sheathed on his back; he was weaponless. He tossed back his golden head and called out, "Stop! Emma and Julian! The battle is over! Stop!" Expressionless as a statue of an avenging angel, Emma reached down and swept Jace out of the way. He was thrown several yards and hit the ground with an ugly thud. Clary screamed and went flying across the grass, racing toward Jace with her red hair trailing behind her like fire. Get up, get up, Helen thought. Get up, Jace. But he didn't. Dru had never used the Familias rune before, and the experience was a strange one. She felt herself tugged toward her siblings in a way she couldn't define. It felt like something was tied around the inside of her spine--which was gross but interesting--and was pulling her toward a destination. She'd heard the way Tracking runes felt described to her, and she suspected this wasn't dissimilar. She let the tugging pull her, running along after it with her hand clasped firmly around Tavvy's wrist. They kept to the edges of the battlefield, Jaime beside them with his crossbow trained on anyone who might approach. They left the shelter of the city walls and struck out for the edge of the forest, still following the pull of the rune. She tried not to look over at the field, at Emma and Julian. It was like looking at pillars of fire one moment, at terrible monsters the next. There was a rustling overhead, and Ty dropped down out of an oak tree. Dru gave a little gasp of surprise, and then another one as Ty walked straight toward her and hugged her tightly. He let her go and frowned. "Why are you on the field? You should be in the city. Tavvy, too." He turned to Jaime. "It's dangerous." "Yes," said Jaime. "I am aware of that." " You're out here," Dru pointed out. "I was up a tree," Ty said, as if that made it better somehow. Before Dru could get into a really enjoyable sibling argument about it, Helen had come rushing up, her pale blond curls fluttering. Aline was just on her heels. "Dm! Tavvy!" Helen darted tearfully toward the two of them, reaching to pick Tavvy up; Dru noticed that he held his arms out to her automatically, something he only really had ever done for Julian before. Helen lifted him up and squeezed him, hard. "What are you two doing here? Dru, did you use the Familias rune on purpose?" "Of course I did!" Dru said. "We have to get out there on the field. We have to stop Emma and Jules. We have to get them back--back to themselves." "We've been trying," Helen said as she set Tavvy down. "Don't you think we've been trying?" Dru wanted to grind her teeth together. Why didn't Helen listen? She'd thought things were better, but she needed her sister to hear her so badly she could feel it like a lump in her throat. She knew what they had to do. It seemed so clear. How could she make the rest of them see it? She felt a twinge in her arm, where the rune was, and then Mark was there, racing up with Cristina at his side. "Dru! You called us--" He saw Ty and smiled delightedly. "I was watching you with your slingshot," he said. "Your aim is true, little brother." "Don't encourage him, Mark," said Helen. "He was supposed to stay back at camp." "Look," Dru said. "I know it doesn't make much sense. But if we all go up to Emma and Jules together, if we go right up to them and talk to them, we can get through. We have to try. If we can't do it, no one can, and then everyone is in danger." Helen shook her head. "But why is this happening?" Cristina and Mark exchanged a glance that Dru couldn't decipher. "I think it is because of the parabatai bond," Cristina said. "Because Emma almost died?" Aline said, bewildered. "I do not know," Cristina said. "I can only guess. But there is heavenly fire burning inside them. And no mortal being can survive that for very long." "It's too dangerous for us to approach them," Mark said. "We have to trust Emma and Julian. Trust that they can end this on their own." There was a long pause. Jaime watched impassively as the Blackthorns and their extended family stood in the stillness of an intense silence. "No," Helen said finally, and Dru's heart sank. Helen raised her eyes, blazing Blackthorn blue in her grime-streaked face. "Dm is right. We have to go." She looked at Dm. "You're right, my love." "I will walk with you to the field," Jaime said to Dru. She was glad for his company as they all set out, Blackthorns together. But it wasn't Jaime she was thinking about as they turned to walk toward the heart of the battle. It was her sister. Helen believed me. Helen understood. In the midst of the darkness of battle, her heart felt a tiny bit lighter. Jaime suddenly jerked upright. "Diego," he said, and then a torrent of Spanish. Dru and Helen whipped around, and Dru sucked in her breath. Not far away, a redcap was dragging Diego's limp body across the field. At least, Dru guessed it was Diego: His clothes were familiar, and his mop of dark hair. But his face was obscured entirely by blood. Helen touched Jaime's shoulder. "Go to your brother," she said. "Quickly. We'll be fine." Jaime took off running. Jace was awake. He had been blinking and starting to sit up when Clary reached him, and she'd been torn between throwing herself into his arms and smacking him for terrifying her. She was drawing an iratze on his arm. It seemed to be doing its work--the long bloody scratch along the side of his face had already healed. He was half- sitting up, leaning against her to catch his breath, when Alec came running up and knelt down beside them. "Are you all right, parabatai?" Alec said, looking anxiously into Jace's face. "Please promise you'll never do that again," Clary said. "I promise that I will never stand between Zara Dearborn and a marauding giant again," said Jace. "Alec, what's happening? You've been out on the field "Julian and Emma just tossed Vanessa Ashdown about twenty feet," said Alec. "I think they're angry that she stabbed Cameron, though why, I couldn't tell you." Clary looked over at Emma and Julian. They stood very still, looking down at the Cohort, as if choosing what to do with them. Every once in a while a Cohort member would break free and run, and Emma or Julian would move to pen them back in again. It was almost like a game, but angels did not play. Clary couldn't help but remember the sight of Raziel, rising from Lake Lyn. Not many people had looked at an angel. Not many people had stared into the cold eyes of Heaven, with its indifference to petty mortal concerns. Did Emma and Julian feel a fraction of that indifference, that unconcern that was not cruelty but something stranger and altogether bigger--something not human at all? Emma suddenly lurched and went down on one knee. Clary stared in shock as the Cohort howled and fled, but Emma made no movement toward them. Julian, beside her, reached down a shining hand to lift her back up. "They're dying," Jace said quietly. Alec looked puzzled. "What?" "They are Nephilim--true Nephilim," said Jace. "The monsters of old who once strode the earth. They have heavenly fire inside them, powering everything they do. But it's too much. Their mortal bodies will burn away. They're probably in agony." He got to his feet. "We have to stop them. If they get too maddened with pain, who knows what they'll do." Emma began to move toward the city. Clary could see Isabelle and Simon running toward the blockade of Shadowhunters standing between Emma and Julian and the city of Alicante. "Stop them how?" Alec said. Grimly, Jace unsheathed the Mortal Sword. Before he could move, Clary put a hand on his shoulder. "Wait," she said. "Look." Not far away now, a small group was walking steadily toward the shining, monstrous figures of Emma and Julian. Helen Blackthorn, with all her siblings beside her--Mark and Tiberius, Drusilla and Octavian. They moved together in a strong and steady line. "What are they doing?" Alec asked. "The only thing they can do," said Clary. Slowly, Jace lowered the Mortal Sword. "By the Angel," he said, drawing in his breath. "Those kids ..." "Diego. Wake up, my brother. Please wake up." There had been only darkness, interspersed with bright sparks of pain. Now there was Jaime's voice. Diego wanted to stay in the darkness and the quiet. To rest where the pain was held at arm's length, here in the silent world. But his brother's voice was insistent, and from childhood Diego had been trained to respond to it. To rise from bed when his brother cried, to run to help him up when he fell down. He peeled his eyes open. They felt sticky. His face burned. Above him was roiling dark sky and Jaime, his expression starkly distraught. He was on his knees, his bow at his side; a distance away, a redcap lay dead with an arrow protruding from its chest. Jaime was clutching a stele in his hand. He reached out and pushed back Diego's hair; when he drew his hand back, it was red with blood. "Stay still," he said. "I have given you several iratzes." "I must get up," Diego whispered. "I must fight." Jaime's dark eyes flashed. "Your face is sliced open, Diego. You have lost blood. You cannot get up. I will not allow it." "Jaime..." "In the past, you have always healed me," said Jaime. "Let me be the one who heals you." Diego coughed. His mouth and throat were thick with blood. "How bad-- how bad will the scars be?" Jaime took his hand, and that was when Diego knew it was bad indeed. He begged Jaime silently not to lie to him or to pity him. Jaime's smile was slow and crooked. "I think I will be the pretty one in the family now," he said. "But at least you are still very muscular." Diego choked on a laugh, on the taste of blood, on the strangeness of it all. He wound his fingers into his brother's, and held on tight. The walk across the field was surreal. As the siblings came closer to Emma and Julian, other Shadowhunters drew nearer to the Blackthorns, sometimes looking puzzled, sometimes almost ashamed. Dru knew they felt that the group was walking toward certain death. Some called out that they should leave Tavvy behind, but he only pressed closer to his brothers and sisters, shaking his head. Emma and Julian were clearly making their way toward the city. They moved like shining shadows, closing the distance between themselves and the barricade of Shadowhunters who stood between them and Alicante. "We need to get to them," she muttered, but the crowd in front of them was forming another sort of barricade. She saw Shadowhunters she recognized among them--Anush and Divya Joshi, Luana Carvalho, Kadir Safar, and even some Downworlders--Bat Velasquez and Kwasi Bediako among them--who were calling out to them not to approach Julian and Emma, that it wasn't safe. She glanced at the others in panic. "What do we do?" "I cannot shoot them with elf-bolts," Mark said. "They mean well." "Of course not!" Helen looked horrified. "Please!" she called out. "Let us pass!" But her voice was lost in the roar of the crowd, which was jostling them back, away from the city, away from Emma and Jules. Dru had begun to panic when they heard the thunder of hooves. Shadowhunters moved reluctantly back as Windspear, Kieran on his back, parted the crowd. His flanks were lathered with sweat; he had clearly raced across the field. Kieran's panicked eyes flew across the group until he found Mark, and then Cristina. The three of them exchanged a swift and speaking look. Mark flung his hand up, as if he were reaching out to the new Unseelie King. "Kieran!" he shouted. "Help us! We need to get to Emma and Julian!" Dru waited for Kieran to say that it was dangerous. Impossible. Instead he bent low over Windspear's neck; he seemed to be whispering to the horse. A moment later, the sky darkened with flying shapes. The Wild Hunt had come. Shadowhunters and Downworlders alike scattered as the Hunt swooped low. Suddenly the Blackthorns could move forward again, and they did, moving as fast as they could toward Emma and Julian, who had nearly closed the gap between themselves and the line of Shadowhunters guarding the city. As they passed, Dru reached up to wave at Diana and Gwyn, who had detached themselves from the Wild Hunt and were preparing to land alongside the Blackthorns. Diana smiled at her and pressed her hand over her heart. Dru fixed her eyes on the goal ahead. They were nearly there. Kieran had joined them. The crown of Unseelie gleamed on his brow, but his attention was fixed on protecting the Blackthorns. With Windspear rearing, he was keeping the crowd at bay on one side, while Gwyn and Diana did the same on the other. The field leveled out. They were close now, close enough that Emma and Julian were shining blurs. It was like looking at trees in the forest whose tops you couldn't see. Dru took a deep breath. "Okay," she said. "Just us now. Just Blackthorns." Everyone went still. Mark pressed his forehead to Cristina's, his eyes shut, before helping her up onto Windspear, beside Kieran. Kieran squeezed Mark's hand tightly and wrapped his arms around Cristina as if to say to Mark that he would keep her safe. Aline kissed Helen softly and went to stand by her mother among the crowd. They watched, a small and worried group, as the Blackthorns set off to close the distance between themselves and Emma and Jules. They stopped a few feet from the giant figures of Julian and Emma. For a moment, the certainty that had carried Dru this far faltered. She had thought only of getting here. Not of what she would do or say when they arrived. It was Tavvy who stepped forward first. "Jules!" he shouted. "Emma! We're here!" And at last Emma and Julian reacted. They turned away from the city and looked down at the Blackthorns. Dru craned her head back. She could see their expressions. They were completely blank. No recognition lived in their glowing eyes. "We can't just tell them to stop," said Mark. "Everyone's already tried that." Tavvy moved a little bit farther forward. The eyes of the giants followed him like massive lamps, glowing and inhuman. Dm wanted to reach out and snatch him back. "Jules?" he said, and his voice was small and low and stabbed into Drusilla's heart. She took a deep breath. If Tavvy could approach them, so could she. She moved to stand behind her younger brother and tilted her shoulders back until she was looking directly up at Emma and Julian. It was like gazing into the sun; her eyes prickled, but she held them open. "Emma!" she called. "Julian! It's Dru--Drusilla. Look, everyone is telling you to stop because the battle is won, but I'm not here to say that. I'm here to tell you to stop because we love you. We need you. Come back to us." Neither Emma nor Julian moved or changed expression. Dru plowed on, her cheeks burning. "Don't leave us," she said. "Who will watch bad horror movies with me, Julian, if you're gone? Who will train with me, Emma, and show me everything I'm doing wrong, and how to be better?" Something shifted behind Dru. Helen had come to stand beside her. She reached her hands out as if she could touch the shining figures before her. "Julian," she said. "You raised our brothers and sisters when I could not. You sacrificed your childhood to keep our family together. And Emma. You guarded this family when I could not. If you both leave me now, how will I ever get the chance to make it up to you?" Julian and Emma were still expressionless, but Emma tilted her head slightly, almost as if she was listening. Mark came forward, laying his slim hand on Dru's shoulder. He craned his head back. "Julian," he called. "You showed me how to be part of a family again. Emma, you showed me how to be a friend when I had forgotten friendship. You gave me hope when I was lost." He stood straight as an elf- bolt, gazing into the sky. "Come back to us." Julian shifted. It was a minute movement, but Dru felt her heart leap. Maybe--maybe-- Ty stepped forward, his gear dusty and ripped where bark had torn it. His black hair fell in dark strands across his face. He pushed it away and said, "We lost Livvy. We--we lost her." Tears stung the backs of Dru's eyes. There was something about the tone of Ty's voice that made it sound as if this were the first time he had realized the finality and irrevocability of Livvy's death. Ty's eyelashes shimmered with tears as he raised his gaze. "We can't lose you, too. We will be--we will wind up broken. Julian, you taught me what every word I didn't understand meant--and Emma, you chased off anybody who was ever mean to me. Who will teach me and protect me if you don't go back to being yourselves?" There was a great and thundering crash. Julian had fallen to his knees. Dru covered a gasp--he seemed smaller than he had, though still enormous. She could see the black fissures in his glowing skin where red sparks of fire leaked out like blood. There is heavenly fire burning inside them. And no mortal being can survive that for very long. "Emma," Dru whispered. "Julian." They weren't expressionless anymore. Dru had seen statues of mourning angels, of angels thrust through with fiery swords, weeping tears of agony. It was not easy to wield a sword for God. She could see those statues again in the looks on their faces. "Emma!" The cry burst from Cristina; she had broken away from the others and come running toward the Blackthorns. "Emma! Who will be my best friend if you're not my best friend, Emma?" She was crying, tears mixing with the blood and dirt on her face. "Who will take care of my best friend when I cannot, Julian, if you are not there?" Emma fell to her knees beside Julian. They were both weeping--tears of fire, red and gold. Dru hoped desperately that it meant that they felt something, and not that they were dying, coming apart in twin blazes of fire. "Who will drive me crazy with questions in the classroom if not you?" called Diana. She was coming toward them as well, and so were Kieran and Aline, leaving Gwyn holding Windspear's bridle, his face reflecting awe and wonder. Aline cleared her throat. "Emma and Julian," she said. "I don't know you that well, and this giant thing is admittedly a huge surprise. That wasn't a pun. I was being literal." She glanced sideways at Helen. "But being around you makes my wife really happy, and that's because she loves you both." She paused. "I also like you, and were going to be a family, dammit, so come down here and be in this family!" Helen patted Aline's shoulder. "That was good, honey." "Julian," Kieran said. "I could speak of the way Mark loves you, and Emma, I could speak of the friendship Cristina bears you. But the truth is that I have to be King of the Unseelie Court, and without your brilliance, Julian, and your bravery, Emma, I fear my reign will be brief." In the distance, Dru could see Isabelle and Simon approaching. Alec was with them, his arm around Magnus, and Clary and Jace walked beside them, hand in hand. Tavvy reached up his arms. "Jules," he said, his small voice clear and ringing. "Carry me. I'm tired. I want to go home." Slowly--as slowly as the passing of eons--Julian reached out with his bright hands, fissured with darkness from which heavenly fire poured like blood. He reached out toward Tavvy. There was a burst of light that seared Dru's eyes. When she had blinked it away, she saw that Julian and Emma were no longer there--no, they had slumped to the ground; they were dark figures within an aura of light, growing ever smaller, surrounded by a pool of illumination the color of bloody gold. For a terrified moment Dru was sure they were dying. As the awful light faded, she saw Emma and Julian--human-size again--crumpled together on the ground. They lay with their hands clasped together, their eyes closed, like angels who had fallen from heaven and now slept peacefully upon the earth again. <|title|>Chapter 33: Reverence <|startofchapter|>"Wake up, Emma. It's time to wake up." There was a gentle hand on her forehead, a gentle voice calling her out of the long dark. For some time there had been only shadows. Shadows and cold after a long period of burning. The world had tilted at a distance. She had seen a place too bright to remember and figures that shone like blades in the sun. She had heard voices calling her name. Emma. Emma. Emma means universe, Julian had said. But she had not woken up. She had heard Julian's voice again, this time mixed with Jem's. "It was a clever touch," Jem said, "having not one meeting but two. You knew any of the Shadowhunters might be loyal to the Cohort, so you had them attend only the first meeting. That way when they reported to Horace what your plans were, he was prepared only for you to interrupt the parley. Not for the Downworlder attack." "Jace and Clary agreed to be the bait," Julian said. He sounded tired, even in her dream. "We knew Horace would do anything to get his hands on them. That way we could march them in front of everyone and prove that Horace wasn't just wrong that they were dead--he was trying to kill them." There was a long pause. Emma floated in more darkness, though she could see shapes in it now, shapes and shadows. "I knew there would be spies at the meeting," Julian said. "I admit they surprised me by sending a demon. I didn't even figure it out until I saw the Eidolon on the battlefield. How do you think it got into the Sanctuary? Just posing as Oskar Lindquist shouldn't have protected it." "Demons have been known to use Shadowhunter blood to enter Institutes. Oskar Lindquist was found dead yesterday. It is possible his blood was used." "But would that grant the demon the power to be invulnerable to seraph blades?" Julian said. There was a long pause. "I know of no magic strong enough for that." Jem sounded troubled. "The Silent Brothers will want to know--" Emma dragged her eyes open reluctantly, not wanting to leave the softness of the dark. "Jem?" she whispered. Her throat and mouth were incredibly dry. "Emma!" She was pulled into a hug. Jem's arms were strong. She pressed her head into his shoulder. It was like being hugged by her father--a memory she kept always in the back of her mind, precious and unforgotten. She swallowed past the dryness in her throat. "Julian?" she whispered. Jem drew back. She was able to see where she was--in a small room with two white beds, a window in the wall letting in sunshine. Julian sat on the bed opposite hers, wearing a clean T-shirt and loose pants like training garments. Someone had put her into the same clothes; her hair was tangled, and her whole body ached like a giant bruise. Julian looked unharmed. Their eyes met and his expression softened; his back was straight and tense, his shoulders a hard line. She wanted to go and hug him. At least to hold his hand. She forced herself not to move. She felt fragile inside, her heart thundering with love and fear. She didn't trust herself to control her emotions. "You're in the Basilias," said Jem. "I woke you, Emma, after Julian had woken. I thought you would want to see each other." Emma looked around. Through a window in the wall, she could see a bigger room of white-sheeted cots, about half of which were taken up with patients. Silent Brothers moved among the rows and the air smelled of healing--herbs and flowers, the medicines of the Silent City. Their room had a low arched ceiling painted with healing runes in gold and red and black. More windows faced out onto the buildings of Alicante: the red-roofed houses, the slim needles of the demon towers. "The children, are they all right?" Emma said. "Helen--?" "I already asked," Julian said. It was hard for Emma to look away from him, and also painful to look at him--he seemed different somehow. Changed. She tore her gaze free and stared at Jem, who had risen to stand by the window. "Everyone's all right, Emma." "Even Kit? He saved my life--" "He was quite drained and ill," said Jem. "But he has recovered well. He is in the Silent City. We lost good warriors on the battlefield, but your friends are safe. You have been unconscious for three days, so you missed the funerals. But then, you've attended too many funerals lately as it is." Emma frowned. "But why is Kit in the Silent City? The Basilias--" "Emma," Jem said. "I did not come to you to talk about Kit. I came to talk about you and Julian." He pushed his hair back from his face; he looked tired, the white streak in his hair more pronounced. "You asked me a long time ago about the parabatai curse. What happens when two parabatai fell in love. I told you what I knew, but I didn't dream you were asking for yourself." Emma felt herself go still. She looked at Julian, who nodded. "He knows," Julian said in a flat sort of voice. Emma wondered what he was feeling. She couldn't quite read him as she usually could, but they were likely both in shock. "Everyone does now." Emma hugged her arms around herself. "But how--" "I wish I had known," Jem said, "though I can understand why you did not tell me. I have spoken with Magnus. I know all that you did to try to combat the curse. No one could have struggled more. But this is not a curse that can be undone, save by the destruction of every parabatai bond in all the world." He looked at Emma with sharp eyes, and she felt the sudden weight of how very old Jem was, and how much he knew about people. "Or at least, that's what was believed, and every attempt to investigate the curse turned up no records of what might happen if the curse were to be realized. We only knew symptoms: increased power with runes, ability to do things no other Nephilim could do. The fact that you broke the Mortal Sword, Emma--I am sure it was partly the strength of Cortana and partly the power of the curse. But these were all things we only guessed at for many years. Then the battle of three days ago happened. What of it do you remember?" "Emma was dying in my arms," Julian said. His voice shook. It was strange, though--normally Emma would have felt a twinge inside her ribs, a flicker of his pain. Now she didn't. "There was a white light--and we were giants, looking down. I don't feel what we felt, but I remember people looking like ants running around our feet. And feeling like we were on a mission, like we were being directed. I don't know how to explain it. Like we were being told what to do and we had no choice except to do it." "As if something were working through you," said Jem. "A will greater than yours?" Emma put her hands to her chest. "I remember now--Zara stabbed me--I was bleeding--" She remembered again the feeling of burning, and the world spinning away and down. "We were giants?" "I need to tell you a piece of Nephilim history," said Jem, though Emma wished he would stick more closely to the topic of Giants: Had Emma and Julian Turned into Them? "Long, long ago, in the early history of Shadowhunters, there were huge demons that threatened the earth. Much bigger than any demon we have now save what Greater Demons can sometimes become. In that time, it was possible for Shadowhunters to become true Nephilim. Giants on the earth. We have old woodcuts and drawings of them, and the writings of those who saw them battling demons." He took a piece of paper from his pocket and read aloud: '"The land that we have gone through as spies is a land that devours its inhabitants; and all the people that we saw in it are of great size. There we saw the Nephilim; and to ourselves we seemed like grasshoppers, and so we seemed to them."' "But this is history," said Julian. "People don't turn into giants now." A land that devours its inhabitants. Emma could not help but think of Thule and the stories of giants there. "Most did not survive their transformations," said Jem. "It was the ultimate sacrifice, to blaze up with heavenly fire and die destroying demons. But it was noticed that many who survived were parabatai. Shadowhunters were more likely to live through the transformation if they had a parabatai who did not transform, anchoring them to earth." "But we both transformed," said Emma. "You understand," Jem said, "that for years we have tried to understand the parabatai curse and what it might be, but we certainly never tied it in to the time of Nephilim. The end of the time of Nephilim came when the giant demons ceased to come to earth. We don't know why they disappeared; they simply did. Perhaps they were all slain. Perhaps they lost interest in this world. Perhaps they feared the Nephilim. This was eight hundred years ago, and many records have been lost." "So when we turned into giants," said Julian, looking as if the words made him ill, "you realized th e parabatai curse was tied to Nephilim somehow?" "After the battle, we raced to turn up every record of the true Nephilim. In doing so, I discovered one tale of a terrible event. A Shadowhunter became a true Nephilim to battle a demon. Their parabatai was meant to stay behind as an anchor, but instead, they too transformed, uncontrollably. Both went wild. They slaughtered the demon and then they murdered their families and all those who tried to stop them until they burned alive from the heavenly fire." He paused. "They were a married couple. In those days there was no Law against loving your parabatai. Some months later it happened again, this time with another pair of lovers." "And people didn't know about this?" said Emma. "Much was done to cover it up. The practice of parabatai is one of the most powerful tools the Shadowhunters possess. No one wanted to lose it. And since the great demons had vanished, it was not thought that there would be a need to employ true Nephilim again. Indeed, no one ever has, and the method by which true Nephilim were made has been lost. It could have ended there, and indeed there are no records in the Silent City of what happened, but Tessa was able to find an archive in the Spiral Labyrinth. It was the tale of two Shadowhunters who became like warlocks--powerful magicians, whose runes were unlike others'. They razed a peaceful town to the ground before they were burned to death. But I suspect they were not burned to death by the townspeople. I suspect that they died from the heavenly fire." He paused. "Not long after the date of this tale, the Law was passed that no parabatai could fall in love." "That's suspicious," muttered Emma. "So what you're saying," said Julian, "is that the Shadowhunters destroyed their own records of why they created the Law about parabatai love being forbidden? They were afraid that people would take advantage of the power-- but they valued the benefits of parabatai too much to give up the ritual?" "That is what I suspect," said Jem, "though I do not think we will be able to prove it." "This can't keep happening," said Emma. "We need to tell everyone the truth." "The truth won't stop it happening," said Julian. He looked at her steadily. "I would have fallen in love with you even if I'd known exactly what the danger was." Emma's heart seemed to trip over itself. She tried to keep her voice steady. "But if the horrible punishments are taken away," she said, "if people don't think they'll lose their families, they'll come forward. Mercy is better than revenge--isn't it?" "The Silent Brothers have conferred and agree with you," said Jem. "They will make a recommendation to the Consul and the new Inquisitor when he or she is appointed." "But Jia--Jia is still the Consul?" said Emma. "Yes, though she is very ill. She has been for some time. I hope she will now have the time and space to rest and get well." "Oh." Emma was surprised--Jia had seemed invulnerable to her. "The Cohort members who survived are being held in the Gard prison. You did win the battle for us, after all. Though I would not recommend trying that tactic again." "What's going to happen to us?" Julian said. "Will we be punished?" "For what happened on the field? I do not think so," said Jem. "It was a war. You slew the Riders of Mannan, for which everyone is grateful, and you slew several Cohort members, which you might have done anyway. I think you will be curiosities now--true Nephilim have not been seen in centuries. Also, you may have to do community service." "Really?" said Emma. "Not really," said Jem, and winked at her. "I meant about the parabatai thing," said Julian. "Were still breaking the Law by feeling like we do about each other. Even if they make the Laws gentler, we'll still have to be separated, exiled even, so this never happens again." "Ah," said Jem, and he leaned back against the wall, his arms folded. "When your clothes were cut from you so you could be healed, here in the Basilias, it was noticed that your parabatai runes had disappeared." Emma and Julian both stared at him. "Now, a parabatai rune can be cut from your skin, and you will not lose your bond," said Jem. "The rune is the symbol, not the bond itself. But it was curious, because there were no marks or scars where your parabatai runes had been; it was as if they had never been drawn. The Silent Brothers looked into your minds and saw the bond had been severed." He paused. "In most cases, I would feel I was giving you bad news, but in this case, perhaps not. You are no longer parabatai." Neither of them moved or even breathed. Inside Emma's chest, her heart seemed to be ringing like a bell in a vast space, the deep echo of a cavern whose roof was so high all sound vanished into silence and dreams. Julian's face was as white as the demon towers. "Not parabatai?" he said at last, his voice like a stranger's. "I'll give you two a moment to digest the news," Jem said, a smile curling the edge of his mouth. "I will go to speak with your family. They have been worried about you." He left the room, and even though he wore jeans and a sweater, the shadow of robes seemed to move about him as he went. The door closed behind Jem, and still Emma couldn't move. The terror of letting herself believe that the horror was over, that it would be all right, kept her frozen in place. For so long she had lived with a weight on her shoulders. For so long it had been the first thing she'd thought of when she woke up and the last of her thoughts before she slept; the food of nightmares and the close of every secret fear: I will lose Julian. I will lose my family. I will lose myself. Even in the brightest moments, she had thought she would lose one of those things. She had never dreamed she would keep them all. "Emma," Julian said. He had gotten to his feet, limping slightly, and Emma's heart broke: She knew this could be no easier for him than it was for her. She rose to her feet, her legs shaking. They faced each other across the space between their two cots. She didn't know who broke and moved first. It could have been her, or him; they could have moved in unison as they had done for so long, still connected even though the parabatai bond was gone. They collided in the middle of the room; she flung her arms around Julian, her bandaged fingers digging into the back of his shirt. He was here, really here, solid in her arms. He kissed her face feverishly and ran his hands through her hair. She knew tears were running down her face; she held on to him as tightly as she could, feeling him shaking in her arms. "Emma," he was saying, over and over, his voice breaking, shattering on the word. "Emma, Emma, my Emma." She couldn't speak. Instead, she traced her fingers clumsily across his back, writing out what she couldn't say aloud, as they had for so long. A-T L- A-S-T, she wrote. A-T L-A-S-T. The door flew open. And for the first time ever, they didn't leap apart: They kept hold of each other's hands, even as their family and friends poured into the room, tearful and bright with happiness and relief. "They are quite afraid of you in Faerie now, Cristina," said Kieran. "They call you a slayer of kings and princes. A terrifying Shadowhunter." The three of them--Mark, Cristina, and Kieran--were sitting by a dry fountain in Angel Square, outside the Basilias. Cristina sat between Mark's legs, his arms around her. Kieran leaned against his side. "I am not terrifying," Cristina protested. "You terrify me," Mark said, and Cristina turned and made a face at him. Kieran smiled but did not laugh: there seemed too much tension in him. Perhaps because it was difficult for him to be in Alicante. It had been heavily faerie-proofed during the Dark War, iron and salt and rowan strategically deployed in nearly every street. The Basilias was covered in hammered iron nails, so Mark and Cristina waited for news of Jules and Emma in the square with Kieran, letting the bright sun warm them as they rested. After the Dark War, Mark knew, this square had been full of bodies. Corpses laid out in rows, their eyes bound with white silk, ready for burning and burial. Now it was peacefully quiet. There had been deaths in the battle three days before, and the next day a great funeral at the Fields. Jia had spoken: of the sorrow endured, of the necessity of building again and the importance of not acting in revenge against the Cohort, fifty of whom were now in the Gard jail. "My mother is the one who is terrifying," said Cristina, shaking her head. She was warm in Mark's arms, and Kieran was a comforting weight against his side. If it had not been for worry over Emma and Jules, he would have been perfectly happy. "I told her about us last night." "You did?" Mark was agog. Cristina's mother was terrifying--he'd heard that after the gates of the City had been opened by the Silent Brothers, she'd climbed up on one of the walls and thrown dozens of spears at the Unseelie faeries with a deadly precision that had sent redcaps scurrying away from the city. There was also a rumor that she'd punched Lazio Balogh in the nose, but he decided not to confirm it. "What did she say?" Kieran's black and silver eyes were worried. "She said that it was perhaps not the choice she would have made for me," said Cristina, "but that what mattered was that I was happy. She also said she wasn't surprised it took two men to fill Diego's shoes." She grinned. "Because Diego saved my life, I will absorb that slight without retort," said Kieran. "And I'll tie his shoelaces together the next time I see him," said Mark. "Can you believe they found Manuel hiding under Horace's dead body?" "I am only surprised he did not cut Horace's body open and hide inside it," said Kieran dourly. Mark punched him lightly in the shoulder. "Why do you strike me?" Kieran protested. "It has been done before in Faerie. Once a cowardly warrior hid inside a kelpie for a week." Something white fluttered down from the sky. A moth, who deposited an acorn in Kieran's lap and winged away. "A message?" Mark said. Kieran unscrewed the acorn's top. He looked darkly serious, probably because he was now clad in the raiment of an Unseelie King. It still gave Mark a jolt to see him, all in black--black boots, black breeches, and a black waistcoat sewed with embroidered waves of gold and green to symbolize Kieran's nixie heritage. "From Winter," Kieran said. "All the Shadowhunters and Downworlders are now returned from the Unseelie Lands to their homes." Kieran had opened the hospitality of the Unseelie Court to those who had fled the battle on the Fields. Alec had said he thought the gesture would go a long way toward rolling back the laws of the Cold Peace. A meeting to discuss how the Clave would go forward was scheduled for the next day, and Mark was anxious for it. Kieran had not stayed long in the Unseelie Court. He had returned to Mark and Cristina the day after the battle, and they had been glad to have him back. "Look!" Cristina cried. She sat up, pointing: One of the windows of the Basilias had opened and Dru had poked her head out. She was waving down at them, gesturing for them to come inside. "Emma and Julian are awake!" she called. "Come up!" Cristina scrambled to her feet and the others followed. Julian and Emma. And Dru had been smiling. Now, Mark thought, noiu he was perfectly happy. He started toward the Basilias, Cristina beside him. They were nearly there when they realized Kieran hadn't followed. Mark turned. "Kieran--" He frowned. "Is the iron too difficult?" "It is not that," Kieran said. "I should return to Faerie." "Now?" Cristina said. "Now and forever," said Kieran. "I shall not come back from there." "What?" Mark strode back toward Kieran. The white letter from Winter fluttered in Kieran's hand like the wing of a bird. "Speak sense, Kieran." "I am speaking sense," Kieran said softly. "Now that we know Emma and Julian will live, I must go back to Faerie. It is the bargain I made with Winter." He glanced down at the letter. "My general summons me. Without a King the Land is at risk of falling into chaos." "They have a King!" Cristina had run to Kieran's side. She wore a light blue shawl; she drew it around herself tightly in agitation, shaking her head. "You are their King, whether you are there or here." "No." Kieran closed his eyes. "The King is linked to the Land. Every moment that the King is in the mortal world, the Land weakens. I cannot stay here. I did not want to be King--I did not ask to be King--but I am King, and I cannot be a bad one. It would not be right." "We could come with you, then," said Mark. "We could not stay in Faerie all the time, but we could visit--" "I thought that as well. But after even a short time as King in the Court, I know otherwise now," Kieran said. His hair had gone entirely black under the slim gold circlet that now encircled his brow. "The King is not permitted to have a mortal consort--" "We know that," said Cristina, remembering her words in Brocelind. Even then she had believed Kieran might not become King. That a way would be found. "But your father had mortal consorts, didn't he? Isn't there some way around the rules?" "No. He had mortal lovers." The word sounded ugly. "A consort is an official position. Mortal companions are playthings to be toyed with and tossed aside. He cared not how they were treated, but I do care. If I brought you to the Court as such, you would be treated with contempt and cruelty, and I could not stand to see it." "You're the King," Cristina said. "They're your people. Can't you order them not to be cruel?" "They have had years of a cruel reign," said Kieran. "I cannot teach them overnight. I did not know it myself. I had to learn kindness from both of you." His eyes glittered. "My heart is breaking and I cannot see a way out. You are all I want, but I must do what is best for my people. I cannot weaken my Land by coming here, and I cannot hurt you by bringing you there. We would never have peace in either place." "Please, Kieran," said Mark. He caught at Kieran's wrist: I am holding the arm of the Unseelie King, he thought. It was perhaps the first time he had thought of Kieran as the King and not simply his Kieran. "We can find a solution." Kieran pulled Mark to him and kissed him, hard and suddenly, his fingers digging into Mark's wrist. When he let him go, he was pale, his cheeks burning with color. "I have not slept for three days. This is why I wanted Adaon to be King. Others want the throne. I do not. I only want you." "And you will be a great King because of it," said Cristina, her brown eyes glimmering with unshed tears. "What if it was only you and Mark? Mark is half-faerie--surely that must mean something--" "He is a Shadowhunter to them," said Kieran, releasing Mark's hand. He strode over to Cristina. His eyes were smudged with tiredness. "And I love you both, my brave Cristina. Nothing can change that. Nothing ever will." The tears she had been holding back spilled down her cheeks as Kieran cupped her face gently. "You're truly leaving? There must be another way!" "There is no other way." Kieran kissed her, swiftly and hard, as he had kissed Mark; Cristina closed her eyes. "Know that I will always love you no matter how far away I am." He let her go. Mark wanted to protest, but more than Cristina, he understood the cruel realities of Faerie. The thorns among the roses. What it would mean to be a toy and plaything of the King of a faerie Court; he could stand it for himself but not for Cristina. Kieran leaped onto Windspear's back. "Be happy with each other," he said, his eyes averted as if he could not bear to look at them. "It is my wish as King." "Kieran--" Mark said. But Kieran was already riding away with thunderous speed. The flagstones trembled with Windspear's retreating hoofbeats; within seconds, Kieran was out of sight. Kit hated it in the Silent City, even though his room was fairly comfortable, at least compared to the rest of the Silent City, which was all sharp-edged objects made out of human skeletons. Once you'd picked up three or four skulls and muttered "Alas, poor Yorick," to them, the novelty wore off quickly. He suspected his rooms were a Silent Brother's chambers. There were a lot of books on a wooden shelf, all of them about history and glorious battles. There was a comfortable bed and a bathroom down the hall. Not that he wanted to think about the bathroom conditions in the Silent City. He hoped to forget them as soon as possible. He had been left with little to do but heal and think about what had happened on the battlefield. He remembered over and over the surge of power that had gone through him when he'd struck the Riders and made their horses disappear. Was it dark magic? Was that why he was locked up? And how was it possible he had faerie blood? He could touch iron and rowan wood. He'd lived his whole life surrounded by technology. He didn't look anything like a faerie and no one in the Shadow Market had ever whispered at the possibility. It was more than enough to occupy his mind and keep him from thinking about Ty. At least, it should have been. He was lying on the bed staring at the stone ceiling when he heard footsteps approaching in the hallway outside his room. His first thought was food--a Silent Brother brought him a tray of plain, nourishingly boring food three times a day. But the footsteps clicked on the stone. Heels. He frowned. The Consul? Diana, even? He'd play it cool and explain that he hadn't done anything wrong. He sat up, running his fingers through his hair and wondering how the Silent Brothers ever got anything done without owning mirrors. How did they know their robes weren't on backward? The door opened and Tessa Gray came in. She wore a green dress and a hairband like Alice in Wonderland. She smiled at him affectionately. "Please break me out of here," said Kit. "I don't want to be trapped here forever. I didn't do anything wrong, especially not any necromancy." Tessa's smile faded. She came over to sit down at the foot of the bed, her gray eyes worried. So much for playing it cool, Kit thought. "Christopher," she said. "I'm sorry for having left you here for so long." "It's all right," he said, though he wasn't sure it was. "But don't call me Christopher. No one does." "Kit," she said. "I'm so sorry that we left you here. We were looking after Julian and Emma, so we couldn't leave the city. It was touch and go for a while, but they just woke up." She smiled. "I thought you'd want to know." Kit was glad to hear it. And yet--"What about the others, are they okay? What about Ty?" "Ty and the others are fine. And Emma is all right in part thanks to you. You saved her life." Kit slumped back against the metal headboard of the bed, relief coursing through him. "So I'm not in trouble for what I did on the battlefield?" "No," Tessa said slowly. "But you need to know what it means. There is a story. One shrouded in mystery and misdirection. One that very few people alive know." "Something about faerie blood," Kit said. "The Rider... He said, 'Kit is the child. The descendant of the First Heir.' But I don't see how that would be possible." Tessa smoothed her skirt out over her legs. "Long ago, the King of Unseelie and the Seelie Queen formed an alliance to unite the faerie Courts. They brought magicians from all over Faerie to cast spells ensuring that the child they had would be the perfect heir. Not all the magic was good magic. Some of it was dark. The King dreamed of a son who would unite the realms, inspire perfect loyalty and perfect love, who would be braver than any faerie knight that had gone before." "Sure sounds like me," muttered Kit. Tessa flashed him a sympathetic smile. "But when the child was born, she was a girl, Auraline." "Plot twist," said Kit. "The King had expected a male heir and was ... upset. In his eyes, the child was flawed, and eventually he set a faerie knight the task of having her killed, though the King had the tale put around that she had been kidnapped, and that is the story most believe." "The King planned to kill his own daughter?" "Indeed, and he has had every daughter of his killed since, in bitterness over Auraline. For she defied him--she was still the Heir. She called upon the knight's loyalty to her and he let her go. That is what the King tried to hide. He pretended Auraline's death was the fault of another, even when Auraline fled to the mortal world. There she met a magician who became her husband --a magician who was descended from a line of Shadowhunters who had left the Clave." "The Lost Herondales," Kit guessed. "Correct. They were your ancestors; their line led to your mother. Through all the past decades, the Unseelie King has hunted those he thought were descended from his daughter, and so the Herondales have hidden, concealed by false names and powerful magic." "Why would the King do that?" said Kit. "Auraline inherited a great deal of magic. The spells done on her before and after she was born were powerful. She is called the First Heir because she was the first faerie born who was heir to the Seelie and Unseelie Court both. And so are all her descendants. Your blood gives you claim to the High Kingship of Faerie." "What?" said Kit. "But--I don't want it. I don't want to be High King of Faerie!" "It doesn't matter what you want, not to them," Tessa said sadly. "Even if you never went near the throne of Faerie, there are warring factions who would love to get hold of you and use you as a pawn. An army with you at the head of it could take down the King or Queen or both." Goose bumps flooded along Kit's arms. "But doesn't everyone know who I am now? Because of what happened with the Riders? Are they hunting me?" Tessa put her hand on his wrist. It was a gentle, motherly touch. Kit could not remember such a touch in all his life. Only the memory of light blond hair and the sound of a lilting voice singing to him. The story that I love you, it has no end. "Part of the reason we kept you here these last few days was to reach out into Downworld to see if anyone has been talking about you," said Tessa. "We have many connections, many ways of following gossip in the Markets. But with the chaos of the battle, all the talk is of the death of the Riders, what happened with Emma and Julian, and Kieran's ascension. There have been words of a warlock who made the great horses of the Riders vanish, but we have spread the word that it was Ragnor Fell." She rolled her eyes. "I thought his name was Ragnor Shade?" "It is Ragnor Fell," she said, and smiled in a way that made her look nineteen. "He is a scamp, and has been in hiding for some years. He resurfaced in grand style during the battle, and now everyone knows Ragnor Fell is back--and that he defeated the Riders, to boot." She chuckled. "He will be insufferable." "He didn't actually do it," said Kit. "That will not make a difference to Ragnor," said Tessa gravely. "So... I'm safe?" Kit said. "I could go back to the Institute in Los Angeles?" "I don't know." A line of worry had appeared between Tessa's brows. "We felt nervous enough before, leaving you, even with you in the Institute and Ragnor nearby to protect you. He even followed you when you went to the Shadow Market." "Did he say why we were going to the Shadow Market?" Kit said, forgetting, in his sudden fear for Ty, not to act suspicious. "Of course not," said Tessa. "He wasn't there to tattle on you, just protect you." She patted his shoulder absently while Kit mused on the strange loyalty of people you barely knew. "The thing is--before, we didn't realize you'd manifest any of the powers of the Heir. Few of your ancestors have before, save Auraline. We thought if we kept you away from things that might trigger the powers ..." "No faeries," Kit recalled. "No battles." "Exactly. If it happens again, word might spread. Besides, faeries have long memories, and we want to make you as safe as possible." "Does that mean leaving me in the Silent City? Because I don't like it here," Kit said. "I'm not good at Silent. And I don't want to talk about the bathroom situation." "No," Tessa said. She took a deep breath, and Kit realized she was actually nervous. "What I'm saying is that you should come and live with me and Jem and the child we're going to have. After all our wandering, we've decided to settle down and build a home. We want you to--to build it with us. To be part of our family." Kit was almost too stunned to speak, not the least at the revelation that Tessa was pregnant. "But--why?" Tessa looked at him forthrightly. "Because a long time ago the Herondales gave both Jem and me a home, and we want to do the same for you." "But am I actually a Herondale?" he asked. "I thought my father was a Herondale and my mother was a mundane, but it looks like they were both Shadowhunters. So I don't even know what my name should be." "Your father's real last name isn't known," Tessa said. "He did have a small amount of Shadowhunter blood. It allowed him to have the Sight." "I thought Shadowhunter blood bred true?" "It does, but over the course of many generations it can become diluted. Still, your father could have trained and Ascended had he wanted. He never did. It was your mother who bore runes. It was your mother who has made you the Lost Herondale we searched for for so long. It is your choice, of course. You can bear any name you wish. We would still welcome you in our family whether you were called Kit Herondale or not." Kit thought of Jace and of the mother he had never known, who he remembered now only in the songs she had sung him once. The mother who had given up her own life for his. "I'll be a Herondale," he said. "I like the family ring. It's classy." Tessa smiled at him. "Anyway," Kit said. "Where are you planning to live?" "Jem owns a house in Devon. A big old pile. We'll be going there. We know you care about the Blackthorns, so we'll understand if you want to stay with them," she added quickly. "We would be sad, but we would do whatever we can to protect you. Ragnor would help, and Catarina--we'd have to tell the Blackthorns why you needed the protection, of course--" She was still talking, but Kit had stopped hearing her. The words spilled around him in a meaningless rush as all the memories he'd been trying to push back flew at him like sharply pecking birds. The Institute, the beach, the Blackthorns, always kind to him; Emma saving his life, Julian driving him to the Market and listening to him talk about Ty--even then, he'd wanted to talk about Ty. All his energy had gone into Ty, all his devotion and hopes for the future. He liked the other Blackthorns, but he hardly knew them well. He probably knew Dru the best, and he liked her as a friend, but that was a small thing compared to the burning hurt and humiliation he felt when he thought about Ty- He didn't blame Ty for what had happened. He blamed himself: He'd been too fixated on not losing Ty to tell him what he needed to hear. Everyone needed to be stopped from making bad choices sometimes, but he hadn't stopped Ty. And he'd gotten what he deserved, really. Now that he knew he meant nothing much to Ty, how could he live in the Institute again? See him every day? Feel like an idiot constantly, feel the pity of his family, listen to them tell him he should try to make other friends, survive in the same house with Ty while Ty avoided him? There was no real question about it. I cant face going back there and living with them. This is my chance to start again and learn what it means to be who I am. "I'll go with you. I'd like to live with you," Kit said. "Oh." Tessa blinked. "Oh!" She grabbed his hand and squeezed it, smiling all over her kind face. "That's lovely, Kit, that's wonderful. Jem will be so happy too. And it will be wonderful for the baby to have company. I mean, hopefully you'll like the baby as well." She blushed. Kit thought it would actually be kind of nice to have a small sibling-type person in his life, but he said nothing. "I'm babbling," Tessa said. "I'm just so excited. We'll go tonight --get you safe and settled as fast as possible. We'll arrange for you to have a tutor--for all the necessary protection spells to be done by the Silent Brothers 55 "That sounds good," Kit said, a little exhausted already by the thought of everything that needed to be done. "I only have this bag--no other luggage." It was true, and there was nothing he cared about much in the bag either, besides the Herondale dagger and the witchlight Ty had given him. "I imagine you'd like to say good-bye to the Blackthorns before we go--" "No," Kit said. "I don't want to see them." Tessa blinked. "It's better if they don't know about all this First Heir stuff," Kit said. "It's safer for them. Jem can tell them I just decided L.A. wasn't for me. They're all so far ahead of me in training, and I should learn from the beginning if I want to be a Shadowhunter." Tessa nodded. Kit knew she didn't entirely buy his excuse, but she also knew enough not to pry. It was very reassuring. "I do have one question before we go," Kit said, and Tessa looked at him curiously. "Will I be growing pointy ears? Maybe a tail? I've seen some weird- looking faeries in the Shadow Market." Tessa grinned. "I guess we'll find out." Everyone wanted to come by the canal house and say hello to Emma and Julian now that they had left the Basilias. People Dru was familiar with as well as people she wasn't flooded into the ground floor, bringing flowers and small gifts: new gauntlets for Emma, a gear jacket for Julian. Some were overly bright and cheery and greeted Emma and Julian as if nothing odd had happened to them at all. Some complimented them as if they thought the whole "becoming enormous and almost dying" was part of a predetermined plan that had paid off nicely. Others were awkward--those who had been a little too close to the Cohort, Dru suspected--as if they wondered if Emma and Julian might grow huge at any moment and squash them right there in the kitchen. One kindly older lady complimented Julian on being tall and a terrible silence fell; Tavvy said, "What's going on?" and Dru had to drag him into the sitting room. A few others seemed to have had major life experiences. "It just came to me on the field that I should spend more time with my family," said Trini Castel. "Moments of peace are precious moments. We'll never get them back." "So true," said Julian. He looked as if he was trying not to laugh. Everyone else nodded thoughtfully. It was very strange--for days, Dru had been worried that Emma and Julian would be punished in some way when they woke up: either officially, by the Clave, or by the ignorant judgment of other Shadowhunters. But it didn't seem to be happening. She edged close to Magnus, who was sitting by the fire eating the chocolates out of a box someone had brought for Emma. He'd come over with Maryse, Max, and Rafe so they could play with Tavvy. Alec, Jace, and Clary were coming later, apparently with some sort of surprise. Isabelle and Simon had already returned to the New York Institute to keep an eye on things. "Why aren't people mad?" she whispered. "At Emma and Julian?" Magnus wiggled his eyebrows at her. Magnus had very amusing eyebrows; Dru had always found him an amusing person generally, with his immense tallness and refusal to take anything seriously. "Well," Magnus said, "without Julian's war council and his strategy for dealing with Dearborn, it's likely that the Cohort would have prevailed. The road the Cohort was traveling led to civil war and bloodshed. Everyone is glad it was avoided." "True," said Drusilla, "but that was before they became giant angel monsters." "Angels are messengers." Magnus dusted cocoa powder off his hands, looking thoughtful. "They speak in strange ways, even to you, their children. Horace and his Cohort spoke as if they were doing the angels' will, and because of it, people feared them. On the battlefield, burning with heavenly fire, Julian and Emma proved that wasn't the case. The angels spoke through them." "So basically everyone who didn't like Horace wanted a big angel to squash the Cohort?" Dru said. Magnus grinned. "They don't want to say that, but believe me, it was immensely satisfying to them." At that moment Jace and Clary arrived with Alec and an enormous cake they'd iced themselves. Most of the strangers had already departed, and Ty helped them put it on the sideboard, where the cake box was opened to reveal that the lettering said: congratulations on not being giants anymore! Everyone laughed and gathered around to cut pieces of the lemon- chocolate cake. Julian and Emma leaned against each other, their shoulders touching. Since they had returned from the Basilias, it had seemed that a massive weight was off Julian's shoulders. He seemed lighter and happier than he had since before the Dark War. Dru knew that he and Emma were no longer parabatai: the angel magic had burned it out of them somehow. It didn't take a genius to figure out that they were probably very pleased about that, considering all the smiling and hand touching they were doing. Mark and Cristina, on the other hand, seemed sad. They were quiet among all the bright chatter in the room. At one point Dm saw Emma take Cristina into the kitchen and hug her as if something bad had happened. Dru didn't know what it was, but she did notice that Kieran wasn't there. Ty was also quiet. Every time he passed Julian, Jules would pull him in for a hug and ruffle his hair the way he'd liked when he was little. Ty would smile, but he seemed unusually listless, uninterested even in eavesdropping on the guests' conversations and making notes for his detective manuals the way he usually did. Eventually he went up to Magnus, who was sitting in a deep blue chair by the fireplace holding his deep blue son on his lap and tickling him. Dru edged closer to the hearth, wondering what Ty wanted to say to the warlock. "Where's Kit, really?" Ty said, and Dru thought: I should have known. Jem had told them that Kit was coming to live with him and Tessa in Devon, but not why, nor why they had to leave in such a hurry. Julian and the others seemed to think Kit would visit them soon, but Dru wasn't so sure. "I keep asking, but no one will tell me." Magnus looked up, his cat's eyes hooded. "Kit's all right. He's with Tessa and Jem. He's going to be living with them." "I know," Ty said. His voice shook. "I know, but--can I say good-bye to him? If I could just talk to him once--" "He's already gone," Magnus said. "He didn't want to say good-bye to you. To anyone really, but I suspect it was mostly you." Dru had to stifle a gasp. Why would Magnus say something so flatly unkind? "I don't understand," Ty said, his left hand fluttering at his side. He caught at his wrist with his right hand as if he could stop it. Julian had always called Ty's hands his butterflies and told him they were beautiful, graceful, and useful--why not let them fly? But Dru worried. She thought they fluttered like hearts, a sign that Ty was uneasy. Magnus's expression was grave. "Come with me." Magnus gave his son to Maryse to carry into the sitting room and headed upstairs, Ty at his heels. Dru didn't hesitate. If Magnus was angry with Ty she was going to find out why, and defend Ty if necessary. Even if Magnus turned her into a toad. She followed. There was an empty bedroom at the top of the stairs. Magnus and Ty went into it, Magnus leaning his long body against the bare wall. Ty sat down on the edge of the bed while Dru stationed herself by the crack in the mostly open door. "I don't understand," Ty said again. Dru knew he'd probably been working on the problem in his mind all the way up the steps: What did Magnus mean? Why did Kit not want to say good-bye to him? "Ty," said Magnus. "I know what you did. Ragnor told me. I wish he'd told me earlier, but then I was dying, so I understand why he didn't. Also, he thought he'd headed you off. But he didn't, did he? You got an energy source from the Market and you did the spell anyway." The spell? The one to raise Livvy's ghost? Ty stared. "How do you know?" "I have sources in the Markets," said Magnus. "I'm also a warlock, and the son of a Greater Demon. I can sense the dark magic on you, Ty. It's like a cloud around you I can see." He sat down on the window ledge. "I know you tried to raise your sister from the dead." He did what? Realization exploded in Dru's mind, along with shock: You didn't just try to raise the dead. Look what had happened to Malcolm. Trying to communicate with a spirit was one thing, necromancy quite another. Ty didn't protest, though. He sat on the bed, his fingers knotting and unknotting. "You are so, so lucky your spell didn't work," Magnus said. "What you did was bad, but what you could have done would have been so much worse." How could you, Ty?How could you, Kit? "Clary brought Jace back from the dead," Ty said. "Clary asked Raziel to bring Jace back from the dead. Think about it-- Raziel himself. You are messing about in magic reserved for gods, Ty. There are reasons necromancy is something people hate. If you bring back a life, you must pay with something of equal consequence. What if it had been another life? Would you have wanted to kill someone to keep Livvy with you?" Ty lifted his head. "What if it was Horace? What if it was someone bad? We kill people in battle. I don't see the difference." Magnus looked at Ty for a long time; Dm was afraid he might say something harsh to him, but the lines of Magnus's face had softened. "Tiberius," he said at last. "When your sister died, she didn't deserve it. Life and death aren't doled out by a judge who decides what is fair, and if it were, would you want to be that judge? Every life at your fingertips, and also every death?" Ty squeezed his eyes shut. "No," he whispered. "I just want my sister back. I miss her all the time. It feels like there's a hole in me that will never be filled up." Oh, Dru thought. How odd that it would be Ty who would most accurately describe what it felt like to lose Livvy. She pressed her hand to her side. A hole where my sister should he. "I know," Magnus said gently. "And I know that you've spent a lot of your life knowing you're different and that's true. You are. So am I." Ty looked up at him. "So you think this feeling you have, of missing half of yourself, must be fixed. That it can't be what everyone else is feeling when they lose someone. But it is. Grief can be so bad you can't breathe, but that's what it means to be human. We lose, we suffer, but we have to keep breathing." "Are you going to tell everyone?" Ty said in a near whisper. "No," Magnus said. "Provided you promise never to do anything like that again." Ty looked nauseated. "I never would." "I believe it. But, Ty, there's something else I'd like you to do. I can't order you to do it. I can only suggest it." Ty had picked up a pillow; he was running his hand over the rough, textured side of it, over and over, his palm reading messages in the fabric. "I know you always wanted to go to the Scholomance," said Magnus. Ty started to protest. Magnus held up a hand. "Just let me finish, and then you can say anything you want to," Magnus said. "At the L.A. Institute, Helen and Aline can keep you safe and love you, and I know you might not want to leave your family. But what you need is mysteries to solve to keep your mind busy and your soul filled. I've known people like you before--they don't rest until their minds are flying free and solving problems. I knew Conan Doyle back in the day. He loved to travel. Spent his third year of medical school on a whaling boat." Ty stared. Magnus seemed to realize he'd veered off course. "All I'm saying is that you have a curious mind," he said. "You want to solve mysteries, to be a detective of life--that's why you always wanted to go to the Scholomance. But you didn't think you could. Because your twin wanted to be parabatai with you, and you couldn't do both." "I would have given up the Scholomance for her," Ty said. "Besides, everyone I met who went there--Zara and the others--was awful." "The Scholomance is going to be quite different now," said Magnus. "The Cohort poisoned it, but they'll be gone. I think it would be a wonderful place for you." His voice gentled. "Grief is hard. Change can be all that helps." "Thanks," Ty said. "Can I think about it?" "Of course." Magnus looked weary and a little regretful. As if he wished things could have been different; as if he wished there were something else to say than the things he'd said. He turned toward the door--Dru shrank back-- and paused. "You understand that from now on you're tied to the ghost of your sister," Magnus said. Tied to the ghost of your sister? Livvy's ghost? "I do understand," Ty said. Magnus stared at the door of the bedroom as if he were seeing through into the past. "You think you do," he said. "But you don't really see it. I know she set you free in the forest. Right now this feels better than nothing, better than being without her. You don't yet understand the price. And I hope you never have to pay it." He touched Ty's shoulder lightly, without looking at him, and left. Dru ducked into the next bedroom until Magnus's footsteps had disappeared down the stairs. Then she took a deep breath and went in to talk to Ty. He hadn't moved from the end of the bed in the empty room. He stared into the gathering shadows, his face pale as he looked up at her. "Dm?" he said haltingly. "You should have told me," Dru said. He furrowed his arched eyebrows. "You were listening?" She nodded. "I know," he said. "I didn't want you to stop me. And I'm not good at lying. It's easier for me to just not say." "Kit lied to me," she said. She was furious at Kit, though she tried not to show it. Maybe it was better that he wasn't coming back with them. Even if he had shown her how to pick locks. "Livvy's ghost--is she really around?" "I saw her today. She was in the Basilias when Emma and Julian woke up. She was sitting on one of the bureaus. I never know when she's going to be there or not be there. Magnus said she's tied to me, so..." "Maybe you can teach me to see her." Dru knelt down and put her arms around Ty. She could feel the slight vibrations going through his body; he was shaking. "Maybe we can see her together." "We can't tell anyone," Ty said, but he had put his arms around Dru, too; he was hugging her, his hair against her cheek as soft and fine as Tavvy's. "No one can know." "I won't say anything." She held on to her brother, held on hard, as if she could keep him tethered to the earth. "I'll never tell." Emma lay atop the covers of her bed, the only light in the room the reflected radiance of the demon towers as it shone through the window. She supposed it wasn't surprising that she couldn't sleep. She'd slept for three days and awakened to a series of shocks: realizing what had happened, Jem's explanation, the house full of people. The odd feeling that followed her constantly that she'd forgotten something, that she'd put something down in the other room and needed to remember to get it. It was the parabatai bond, she knew. Her body and her brain hadn't caught up to the fact that it was gone. She was missing it the way people who lost limbs sometimes still felt them there. She was missing Julian. They'd been together all day, but always surrounded by other people. When the house had finally emptied of strangers, Julian had taken Tavvy up to bed, bidding her an awkward good night in front of the others. She'd gone up to bed herself not long after, and had been lying there worrying for hours. Would everything be awkward now that they weren't parabatai? Now that they floated in a new, foreign place between being friends and lovers? They had never declared themselves because words like "boyfriend" and "girlfriend" seemed banal in the face of curses and giant monsters. What if everything that had happened was so devastating that they could never reach a place of normalcy? She couldn't stand it. She rolled out of bed, got to her feet, and smoothed down her nightgown. She flung open her bedroom door, ready to march across the hall to Julian's room and make him talk to her, no matter how awkward it might be. Just outside her door stood Julian, his hand outstretched, looking as surprised to see her as she was to see him. He lowered his hand slowly, the distant moonlight glinting off his sea- glass bracelet. The hallway was dark and quiet, casting Julian's face into shadow. "I didn't know if you'd want me to come in," he said. Relief made Emma sag against the doorway. "I do want you to come in." She moved back into the room while he shut the door behind him. They were both in darkness now, only the light of the glass towers providing illumination. Julian, in all black, was a shadow among shadows as he looked down at her; his hair looked black too, striking against his pale skin. "I didn't know if you'd want me to kiss you." She didn't move. More than anything else she wanted him to come to her and put his hands on her. She wanted to feel him against her when the space between them was no longer a space of cursed and forbidden things. "I do want you to kiss me," she whispered. He closed the distance between them in one step. His hands cupped the back of her head, his mouth slanting down over hers, hot and sweet as tea with honey. She ran her teeth lightly across his bottom lip and he made a guttural sound that raised the hairs along her arms. His warm lips moved to graze her cheek, her jawbone. "I didn't know if you'd want me to touch you," he murmured against her skin. It was a pleasure just to look up at him slowly. To know that none of this needed to be rushed. She slipped her nightgown over her head and watched his face go tight with desire, his eyes dark as the bottom of the sea. "I want you to touch me," she said. "There's nothing you could do to me that I wouldn't want, because it's you." He caught her in his arms and it was strange for a moment, her bare skin against his clothes, cotton and denim and metal rivets as he lifted her up and carried her to the bed. They crashed onto it together, Julian struggling out of his shirt, his jeans; Emma crawled atop him, leaning down to kiss his throat, to lick and suck at the pulse point there where she could feel the beating of his heart. "I want to go slowly," she whispered. "I want to feel everything." He gripped her hips and flipped their position, rolling over so that he was above her. He grinned down at her wickedly. "Slowly it is," he said. He started with her fingers, kissing each one; he kissed the palms of her hands and her wrists, her shoulders and her collarbones. He traced a path of kisses over her stomach until she was writhing and gasping and threatening him, which only made him laugh softly and turn his attention to even more sensitive places. When the world had gone white behind her eyes several times, he rose up over her and brushed her damp hair away from her face. "Now," he whispered, and covered her mouth with his own as he joined their bodies together. It was slow as he had said it would be, as it had never been before; there was no desperation beyond their desire. They lay crosswise on the bed, sprawled and hungry, yearning and touching. She stroked his face lightly, reverently: the curve of his mouth, his eyelashes fluttering against his cheekbones, and with every touch and moment his breath grew more ragged, his grip on the sheets tighter. Her back arched to meet him, her head full of sparks: they rose and blended together until everything was fire. And when they caught alight at last, neither able to wait a moment longer, they were one person. They were incandescent as angels. From Mark's room, he could see the moon, and it troubled him. There had been so many nights on horseback, the moon riding with them as if it, too, hunted the sky. He could hear Kieran's laughter in his ears, even now, clear laughter untouched by sorrow. He hoped Kieran would laugh again like that someday. He could only picture him sitting in darkness, in the blackened throne room of the Unseelie King, a bleak and lonely place. A King of shattered hearts and broken souls, solitary on his granite throne, growing older slowly through the ages of the world. It was more than he could stand. He was grateful beyond measure when Cristina slipped into his room and crawled onto the bed with him. She wore white pajamas, her hair loose and dark. She curled up against his side, pressing her face into his neck. Her cheeks were wet with tears. "Is this really how it ends? The three of us, all miserable?" he said. She placed her hand over his heart. "I love you, Mark," she said, her voice gentle. "I hate to think of your heart torn as mine is." "I am happier when you are here," he said, placing his hand over hers. "And yet..." "And yet," she said. "I have an idea, Mark. Perhaps a mad one. But it might work. It might mean we could see him again." Her dark eyes were straightforward. "I would need your help." He drew her up his body and kissed her; she went soft against him, her body curving into his. She was rich and sweet as honey, silken as a bed of wildflowers. She was the only woman he would ever love. He thumbed the tears away from her cheeks and whispered, "My hand, my heart, my blade are yours. Tell me what I need to do." Emma lay with her head on Julian's chest, feeling the beat of her heart slowly return to normal. Somehow most of the covers had come off the bed and were on the floor; they were half-wrapped in sheets, Julian's free hand idly playing with her hair. "So I guess you feel pretty good about yourself," she said. He blinked at her sleepily. "Why would that be?" She laughed, her breath stirring the soft dark curls of his hair. "If you don't know, I'm not going to tell you." He smiled. "How do you feel?" She folded her arms on his chest, looking up at him. "Happy. So happy but also like I don't deserve to be." His hand stilled in her hair. "Why not? You deserve to be happy more than anyone I know." "If it wasn't for you, I would have done a terrible thing," Emma said. "I would have broken all the parabatai bonds. It would have caused so much devastation." "You were half-crazy from the curse," Julian said. "You weren't thinking straight." "Still. I let myself be manipulated by the Queen. Even though I knew she only cares about herself. I knew it, and I let her get into my head. I should have had faith." "But you did," he said. "Faith isn't never having any doubts; it's having what you need to overcome them." He lightly stroked her cheek. "We all have things we regret doing. I regret asking Magnus to do that spell. I regret that we couldn't help Ash. He was just a kid." "I know," she said. "I hate that we left him behind. But if he was here-- someone would always be looking for him. All it would take is some spells from the Black Volume to make him so powerful everyone would want to use him." "Good thing there aren't any Black Volumes left," said Julian. "For a while it was like a whack-a-mole game. I guess I contributed to that." He smiled crookedly. "Oh, and I regret killing Dane Larkspear." "He was going to kill us," Emma said. "You did what you had to do." "Ah, there's the murderous girl I know and love," said Julian. "I don't know how I'll ever make up for Dane. But I have the faith you'll help me figure it out." "I believe you deserve to be happy," Emma said. "You're the bravest and most loving person I know." "And I believe you deserve to be happy," said Julian. "So how about I believe it for you, and you believe it for me? We can believe it for each other." Emma glanced toward the window. She could see the first traces of sunlight in the sky. Morning was breaking. She looked up at Julian. Dawn touched the edges of his hair and eyelashes with gold. "Do you have to go back to your room?" she whispered. He smiled down at her. "No," he said. "We don't have to he or pretend now. We don't have to he or pretend ever again." It was the first time Emma had been in the Council Hall since Livvy had died. It wasn't the only reason she was desperate for the meeting to be over, but it was certainly part of it. The blood might have been scrubbed out of the dais, but she would always see it there. She knew it was the same for Julian; he tensed beside her as they went in through the doors with the rest of the Blackthorns. The whole family was quiet, even Tavvy. The Hah was filled to bursting. Emma had never seen it so full: Shadowhunters were smashed together on the rows of seats, and the aisles were filled with those who were standing; some were Projecting in from distant Institutes, their half-transparent shimmering forms glowing along the back wall. Emma recognized Isabelle and Simon among them and waved. Thankfully, seats had been kept for the Blackthorns by Jaime and Diego. Jaime had held an entire row by lying across it; he popped up when they approached and let them all slide in, winking at several glaring Shadowhunters who had been hoping to find a seat. People stared at all the Blackthorns, but especially Emma and Julian, as they took their seats. It had been the same at the house the day before: strangers gawking, wide-eyed. Emma remembered what she had thought about Jace and Clary at the war council meeting: So this is what it's like to be heroes. To be the ones with angel blood, the ones who've literally saved the world. People look at you as if... almost as if you're not real. As it turned out, it made you wonder yourself how real you were. Emma wound up sitting between Cristina and Julian, her fingertips touching Julian's discreetly on the seat between them. Now that she and Julian were no longer parabatai, all she wanted was to get home and start their new life. They would discuss their travel year and plan all the places they would go. They would visit Cristina in Mexico, and Jace and Clary in New York, and Great-Aunt Marjorie in England. They would go to Paris and stand in front of the Eiffel Tower holding hands and there would be nothing wrong with it and nothing forbidden. Maybe it would be a short meeting? She glanced around the room, noting the serious expressions on everyone's faces. Knots of those who had been friendly to the Cohort, but had not fought with them on the field, huddled together on benches, whispering. Dearborn sympathizers like Lazio Balogh, who had remained in the city for the duration of the battle, hadn't been arrested--only those who had raised weapons against other Nephilim would stand trial. "People look grim," she murmured to Julian. "No one wants to sentence the Cohort," he said. "A lot of them are young. It feels brutal, I think." "Zara deserves sentencing," Emma muttered. "She stabbed me and she totally upset Cristina with that whole fake engagement." Julian looked over at Cristina, who had her head on Mark's shoulder. "I think Cristina has moved on," he said. "And Diego, too." Emma darted a look at where Diego--his cheek bandaged--was sitting and chatting with a glowing Divya, who had been thrilled Anush had fought on their side on the field. Interesting. There was a rustle and a flourish as the guards closed the side doors and Jia entered through the back of the Hall. The room hushed as she moved down to the dais, her robes sweeping the steps. Behind her, wearing the flame-colored tunics of prisoners, were the captured Cohort members. There were perhaps fifty or sixty of them, many of them young, just as Julian had said. So many had been recruited through the Scholomance and its outreach. Vanessa Ashdown, Manuel Villalobos, Amelia Overbeck, and Zara herself, her expression defiant. They filed onto the dais behind Jia, the guards guiding them into rows. Some were still bandaged from the battle. All bore iratzes. Their tunics were printed with runes meant to keep them trapped in the city. They could not pass the gates of Alicante. Flame to wash away our sins, Emma thought. It was odd to see prisoners with their hands unbound, but even if each of them had been freely bearing two longswords, they would hardly have been a match for the hundreds of other Shadowhunters in the Council Hall. She saw Diego lean over to whisper something to Jaime, who shook his head, his face troubled. "We come together in a time of grief and healing," announced Jia, her voice echoing off the walls. "Thanks to the bravery of so many Shadowhunters, we have fought nobly, we have found new allies, we have preserved our relationships with Downworlders, and we have opened a new way forward." Zara made a horrible face at the phrase "preserved our relationships." Emma hoped she would be sentenced to cleaning toilets for the rest of eternity. "However," said Jia. "I am not the leader who can take us on that path." Murmurs ran through the room; was Jia really saying what they thought she was saying? Emma bolted upright in her seat and looked over at Aline, but she seemed as shocked as the rest of the room. Patrick Penhallow, though, seated in the front row, seemed unsurprised. "I will preside over the sentencing of the Cohort," Jia continued, unfazed. "It will be my last act as Consul. After that there will be an open election for a new Consul and a new Inquisitor." Helen whispered to Aline, who took her hand. Emma felt a chill go through her. This was a surprise and the last thing she wanted was a surprise. She knew it was selfish--she remembered Jem saying that Jia was ill--but still, Jia was a known quantity. The unknown loomed. "And when I say an open election," Jia continued, "I mean an open election. Everyone in this Hall will have a vote. Everyone will have a voice. No matter their age; no matter if they are Projecting from their home Institute. No matter," she added, "if they are members of the Cohort." A roar went through the room. "But they are criminals!" shouted Joaquin Acosta Romero, head of the Buenos Aires Institute. "Criminals do not have a vote!" Jia waited patiently for the roar to die down into quiet. Even the Cohort were staring at her in puzzlement. "Look how full this Council Hall is," she said. People twisted around in their seats to stare at the overflowing rows of seats, the hundreds of Projections in the back of the room. "You're all here because over the past week, and especially since the battle, you have realized how urgent this situation always was. The Clave was nearly taken over by extremists who would have driven us into isolation and self-destruction. And everyone who stood back and allowed this to happen--through inattention, through apathy and overconfidence--" Her voice shook. "Well. We are all guilty. And therefore we will all vote, as a reminder that every voice counts, and when you choose not to use your voice, you are letting yourself be silenced." "But I still don't see why criminals should vote!" yelled Jaime, who had apparently taken the "no matter their age" portion of the speech to heart. "Because if they don't," said Diana, rising to her feet and addressing the room, "they will always be able to say that whoever the new Consul is, they were elected because the majority had no voice. The Cohort has always flourished by telling the lie that they speak for all Shadowhunters--that they say the words that everyone would speak if they could. Now we will test that lie. All Shadowhunters will speak. Including them." Jia assented gravely. "Miss Wrayburn is correct." "So what will be done with the prisoners, then?" called Kadir. "Will they walk among us, free?" "The Cohort must be punished! They must be!" The voice was a raw scream. Emma turned and flinched; she felt Julian's hand tighten on hers. It was Elena Larkspear. She was alone; her husband had not come to the meeting. She looked as haggard as if she had aged fifty years in the past week. "They used our children--as if they were trash--to do the things too filthy or dangerous for them to do! They murdered my daughter and my son! I demand reparations!" She fell back into her seat with a dry sob, covering her face with her hands. Emma stared at the Cohort, her throat aching: even Zara was having a hard time wiping the look of horror off her face. "They will not go unpunished," said Jia gently. "They have been tested by the Mortal Sword and confessed to their crimes. They sent Dane Larkspear to murder other Shadowhunters, and were thus directly responsible for his death." She inclined her head toward Elena. "They murdered Oskar Lindquist that a demon might take his place at a meeting held at the Los Angeles Institute. Led by Horace Dearborn, this group used lies and intimidation to try to lead the Clave into a false alliance with Faerie--" "And now you people are trying to lead the Clave into an alliance with the new King--how is that different?" Zara shouted, rallying. Emma whipped her head around to study the room. Many Shadowhunters looked angry or annoyed, but there were those who clearly didn't disagree with Zara. Ugh. A voice rang out clearly, stony and cold. Alec Lightwood's. "Because open political engagement is very different from disavowing any relationship to Downworlders in public while conspiring to commit murder with them behind the backs of the people you're meant to be governing." "The Cohort imprisoned loyal Nephilim and sent others to their deaths," said Jia after a withering glance at Zara. "We were brought to the brink of civil war." She looked out at the Clave. "You might think I want to punish them severely, strip their Marks and send them into the mundane world they so despise. But we must consider mercy. So many of the Cohort are young, and they were influenced by misinformation and outright lies. Here we can give them a chance to again rejoin the Clave and redeem themselves. To turn from the path of deceit and hate and walk once again in the light of Raziel." More murmurs. The members of the Cohort looked at each other in confusion. Some seemed relieved, some angrier than ever. "After this meeting," Jia went on, "the Cohort will be split up and sent to different Institutes. Several of the Institutes who attended Julian Blackthorn's war council have offered to take in former Cohort members and show them a better way. They will have a chance to prove themselves before they return to the homeland." Now there was an eruption of chatter. Some shouted the punishment was lenient. Some shouted that it was cruel to "exile them from Alicante." Jia stilled the shouting with a gesture. "Any who are not in favor of this punishment, please raise your hand or voice. Manuel Villalobos, you are not allowed to vote on this issue." Zara pinned Manuel, whose hand was half-raised, with a scowl. A few more hands were raised. Emma almost wanted to raise hers and to say that they deserved worse. But then, she had spared Zara's life on the field, and the gesture had led to all of this: had led to the end of the battle, and her and Julian's freedom. Maybe Arthur had been right. Maybe mercy was better than revenge. She kept her hand down, as did all the other Blackthorns. No one she knew well raised their hand, not even Diego or Jaime, who had good cause to hate Zara and her friends. Jia looked relieved. "And now," she said, "to the election of a new Consul." Jace was on his feet before she finished speaking. "I nominate Alec Lightwood." The Blackthorns clapped fiercely. Alec looked stunned and touched. Clary cheered, and the cheer spread--many in the room waved their hands in support, and Emma's heart swelled. Jace could have reached out for the position of Consul had he wanted; he and Clary were beloved; either would win handily. But he had put Alec forward for it, because it was what Alec wanted--and because Jace knew Alec was the right choice. Delaney Scarsbury rose to his feet, his face red. "I object. Alec Lightwood is much too young. He lacks experience and notoriously consorts with Downworlders." "You mean by heading up the Downworlder-Shadowhunter Alliance where his job is to consort with Downworlders?" called Julian. "He does it in his free time as well, Blackthorn," said Scarsbury with a nasty smile. Emma rather wished Magnus was there and could turn him into a toad, but Downworlders weren't at the meeting. They had refused to be in the same room as the Cohort members, and Emma couldn't blame them. "You know what they mean," called Zara. "He's a filthy pervert. Jace should stand for Consul instead." "I am also a filthy pervert," said Jace, "or at least I aspire to be. You have no idea what I get up to in my spare time. Just last week I asked Clary to buy me a 55 Clary pulled him down next to her and belabored him with her fists. He grinned. "What about Patrick Penhallow?" someone shouted. "He knows what he's doing!" Patrick, seated in the front row, rose to his feet with a stony expression. "I will not stand as Consul," he said. "My wife has given enough. My daughter has given enough. It is time for my family to be allowed some peace and rest." He sat down in dead silence. Delaney Scarsbury said, "I nominate Lazio Balogh." Real fear stabbed through Emma for the first time that day. She and Julian looked at each other, both remembering the same moment--Lazio rising in the Hall of Accords to deliver the words that sent Helen into exile and abandoned Mark to the Hunt. Both Mark and Helen Blackthorn have the blood of faeries in them. We know the boy's already joined up with the Wild Hunt, so he's beyond us, but the girl shouldn't be among Shadowhunters. It isn't decent. Those who hadn't cheered for Alec's nomination looked pleased, as did the Cohort. "He'd be an awful Consul," Emma said to Julian. "He'd set everything back." "We don't really have a better system," said Julian. "All we can do is ask people what they want." "And hope they choose the right thing," said Cristina. "Alec would look much better on the money," said Mark. "We don't put the Consul on the money," said Julian. "And we don't print money, anyway." "We could start doing both," said Mark. "Alec Lightwood has never even lived in Idris," said Lazio, rising up. "What does he know about governing our homeland?" Alec rose to his feet. "My parents were exiled," he said. "And most Shadowhunters don't live in Idris--how will you govern them if you think the only Shadowhunters that matter live in Alicante?" "Your parents were exiled because they were in the Circle!" snapped Balogh. "And he has learned from his parents' mistakes!" Maryse snapped. "My son knows better than anyone else the horror that bigotry and prejudice can bring." Alec gave her a nod, and spoke coolly. "You voted for my father for Inquisitor, Balogh, so it didn't bother you then," he said. "My father gave his life in this room for the Clave. What have you done besides exile Shadowhunter children because you were afraid of their faerie blood?" "Damn," said someone in the back. "He's good." "Lightwood would end the Downworlder Registry," said Lazio. "And the Cold Peace." "You're right, I would," said Alec. "We can't live in fear of Downworlders. Downworlders gave us Portals. They gave us a victory over Valentine. They gave us a victory on the Fields just now. We cannot keep pretending we don't need them, any more than they can pretend they don't need us. Our future depends on our mandate--we are the hunters of demons, not the hunters of our own allies. If prejudice sidetracks us, we may all die." Lazio's expression darkened. Applause rang through the room, though not all were applauding. Many Shadowhunters sat with their hands clasped firmly in their laps. "I think it has come time for the vote," said Jia. She took a tarnished glass vessel from a stand on the dais and handed it down to Patrick in the front row. He bent his head and whispered into the vial. Emma watched with interest--she had heard of the process of voting for Consul but had never seen it. The vial went from hand to hand, each Shadowhunter whispering into it as if confessing a secret. Those Projecting had the vial held out to them by obliging hands since Projections could speak but not touch objects. When the vial came to her, she lifted it to her mouth and said, "Alexander Lightwood," in a firm, loud voice. She heard Julian chuckle as she passed it along to Cristina. At last the vial had been shared with every Shadowhunter save the Cohort. It was given to Jia, who passed it along to Zara. "Vote wisely," she said. "The freedom to choose your own Consul is a great responsibility." For a moment, Zara looked as if she might spit in the jar. She jerked it out of Jia's hand, spoke into it, and handed it to Manuel on her right. He smirked as he whispered into the jar, and Emma's shoulders tightened, knowing that every Cohort vote was a vote against Alec. At last the final vote was cast, and the jar returned to Jia, who took out her stele and drew a rune on its side. The vial shook in her hand as pale smoke poured from its open neck, the expelled breath of hundreds of Nephilim. It formed into words across the air. ALEXANDER GIDEON LIGHTWOOD Clary and Jace flung themselves at Alec, laughing, as the air exploded with cheers. Aline and Helen gave Alec a mutual thumbs-up. The Projections of Isabelle and Simon waved from the back of the room. The Blackthorns whooped and applauded; Emma whistled. Maryse Lightwood wiped away tears of happiness as Kadir patted her shoulder gently. "Alec Lightwood," cried Jia. "Please rise. You are the new Consul of the Clave." Emma had expected an outburst from Lazio, or at least a look of black rage. Instead he merely smirked coldly as Alec rose to his feet among cheers and applause. "This vote doesn't count! It shouldn't count!" shouted Zara. "If those who died on the field could have voted, Alec Lightwood would never have won!" "I will work toward your rehabilitation, Zara," said Alec evenly. Silver flashed. Zara had snatched a long dagger from the weapons belt of a guard standing near her; he made no move to stop her. There were gasps as the rest of the guards tossed weapons to the other Cohort members, steel sparking in the light from the great windows. "We refuse to recognize Alec Lightwood as Consul!" shouted Manuel. "We stand for our old traditions, for the way things always have been and always should be!" "Guards!" Jia shouted, but the twenty or so guards were making no effort to stop the Cohort--in fact, they had joined them in a flurry of unsheathed daggers. Emma glanced at Lazio Balogh, who was watching with folded arms, clearly unsurprised. Somehow, Emma realized, the Cohort's allies had planted guards who were sympathetic to their cause. But what on earth were they planning? There were still only a fraction of them compared to the overwhelming number of Shadowhunters who had voted for Alec. Jia leaped down from the dais, unsheathing her dao. All over the Hall, Shadowhunters were rising to their feet and drawing arms. Alec had reached for his bow, Jace his sword. Dru reached for Tavvy, her face pale, as the rest of the family took out their weapons. Then Zara raised her dagger and put it to her own throat. Movement in the room ceased. Emma still gripped Cortana, staring as Manuel followed Zara's gesture, placing the blade of his own dagger against his throat. Amelia Overbeck did the same--Vanessa Ashdown followed, with Milo Coldridge--until all the Cohort members stood with blades to their throats. "You can put your weapons down," said Zara, holding the knife against her throat so tightly that blood dripped down her hand. "We are not here to harm our fellow Shadowhunters. You have harmed yourselves enough with your foolish and shortsighted vote. We are acting to save Alicante from corruption and the glass towers from ruin." Her eyes glittered madly. "You spoke before of the value of the lands outside Alicante as if Alicante were not the heart of our people. Very well then, go out and embrace the mundane world, away from the Angel's light." "Are you demanding we leave Alicante?" said Diana in disbelief. "We who are Nephilim as you are?" "No consort of a faerie is as Nephilim as I am," Zara spat. "Yes. We ask--we demand--that you go. Clary Fairchild can create Portals; let her make one now. Step through it and go where you wish. Anywhere that is not Alicante." "You're only a few people," said Emma. "You can't kick the rest of us out of Alicante. It's not your tree house." "I am sorry it came to this," said Lazio, "but we are not a few people. We are many more. You may have intimidated people into voting for Lightwood, but their hearts are with us." "You would propose a civil war? Here in the Council Hall?" demanded Diana. "Not a civil war," said Zara. "We know we cannot win against you in battle. You have too many filthy tricks. You have warlocks on your side." She glared at Alec. "But we are willing to die for our beliefs and for Alicante. We will not leave. We will spill Shadowhunter blood, yes. Our own blood. We will cut our own throats and die here at your feet. Either you will go or we will wash this room clean in our blood." Jaime rose to his feet. "Call their bluff," he said. "They cannot hold us hostage--" Zara nodded to Amelia, who plunged the dagger she held into her stomach and twisted it viciously to the side. She fell to her knees spurting blood as the room exploded with gasps of horror. "Can you build your new Clave on the blood of dead children?" Zara screamed at Alec. "You said you would show mercy. If you let us die, every time you step into this room from this moment onward, you will be walking on our corpses." Everyone looked at Jia, but Jia was looking at Alec. Alec, the new Consul. He was studying not Zara's face but the faces of the others in the room-- those who looked at Zara as if she were the promise of freedom. There was no mercy on the faces of the Cohort. Not a one of them reached for Amelia as her blood ran out across the floor. "Very well," said Alec with a deadly calm. "We will go." Zara's eyes widened. Emma suspected she had not expected her plan to work, but had hoped to die as a martyr and destroy Alec and the rest of them in the process. "You understand," Lazio said, "that once you go, Lightwood, you cannot return. We will lock the wards of Idris against you, tear the Portal from the walls of the Gard, brick up the entrances from the Silent City. You will never be able to come back." "Brick up the entrances to the Silent City?" said Diego. "You would cut off your own access to the Silent Brothers? To the Cup and Sword?" "Who holds Idris holds the Mortal Mirror," said Lazio. "As for the Silent Brothers, they have been corrupted, as the Iron Sisters have. We will cut them off from Alicante until they see the error of their ways. Until they see who the true Shadowhunters are." "The world is bigger than Idris," said Jace, standing tall and proud beside Alec. "You think you are taking our homeland, but you are making it your prison. Just as we can never return, you will never be able to leave." "Outside the wards of Idris we will fight on to protect the world," Alec said. "In here, you will rot as you play at being soldiers with nothing to fight but each other." Alec turned his back on Balogh, moving to face the Clave. "Let's open the Portal now," he said. "Those who do not live in Alicante, return through it to your homes. Those who live here will have a choice. Gather your families and come with us or remain here, trapped forever, with the Cohort as your rulers. It is the choice of each Shadowhunter whether they wish to be imprisoned or free." Clary rose to her feet and walked to the doors at the back of the room, taking her stele from her pocket. The Clave watched in silence as her stele flashed in her hand and a silvery-gray whirlwind began to grow against the doors, opening outward, shimmering along the walls until it had become an enormous Portal. She turned to look at the room. "I'll keep this open for as long as anyone needs to leave Idris," she said, her voice firm and clear. "I'll be the last who passes through. Who wants to be the first?" Emma stood, and Julian moved with her, acting together as they always had. "We will follow our Consul," Emma said. "The Blackthorns will go first," Julian said. "Keep your prison, Zara. We will be free without you." The rest of their family rose with them. Aline went to Jia and looped her arm through her mother's. Emma would have thought the room would have been full of cries and chaos, of arguing and fighting. But it seemed as if a cloak of stunned acceptance had been drawn over the Shadowhunters, both those leaving and those staying. The Cohort and their allies watched in silence as the majority of Shadowhunters either headed toward the Portal or went to gather up their things from their Alicante houses. Alicante would be a ghost town, a ghost city in a ghost land, Emma thought. She looked for Diana, found her nearby in the crowd. "Your father's shop," she said. "Your apartment--" Diana just smiled. "I don't mind," she said. "I was always coming back with you to Los Angeles, love. I'm a teacher. Not a shop owner in Idris. And why would I want to live somewhere Gwyn couldn't go?" Cristina hugged Diego and Jaime as they stood, ready to return to Mexico City. Divya and Rayan were preparing themselves. So were Cameron and Paige Ashdown, though Vanessa still stood on the dais, glaring at them with narrowed eyes. Amelia's body lay at her feet. Emma felt a twist of pity. To sacrifice so much for a cause that cared nothing for you, and then to die unmourned. It seemed too cruel. Cameron turned his back on Vanessa, heading for the stairs, joining the Blackthorns and their friends as Clary directed the Portal to return them to Los Angeles. He didn't look back at his cousin. Emma hoped he saw her smile at him encouragingly. The Ashdowns weren't the only family that would be torn apart by this. But with every step she took toward the Portal, she knew they were doing the right thing. No shining new world could be built on blood and bones. The Portal rose up before Emma, lucent and shimmering. Through it she could see the ocean and the shore, the looming shape of the Institute. Finally the Blackthorns were going home. They had passed through blood, through disaster, and now through exile, but they were going home at last. She took Julian's hand, and they stepped through. <|title|>Chapter 34: The City in the Sea <|startofchapter|> Kieran held been waiting in the meadow for some time now. No one ever told you, he thought, that when you became a King of a Faerie Court, you would have to wear very itchy velvet and silk nearly all the time. The boots were nice--the King had his own cobbler, who molded the leather to his feet--but he could have done without wearing a jeweled belt, heavy rings, and a doublet with five pounds of embroidery on it on a bright summer day. A rustle in the grass announced the arrival of General Winter, who bowed deeply before Kieran. Kieran had told him many times not to do that, but Winter persisted. "Adaon Kingson, your brother," he announced, and stepped aside, allowing Adaon to pass him and come close to Kieran. The two brothers regarded each other. Adaon wore the green livery of a page of the Seelie Court. It suited him. He seemed rested and calm, his dark eyes thoughtful as he gazed at Kieran. "You sought private word with me, my liege?" he said. "Winter, turn your back," Kieran said. In truth, he did not mind what Winter heard: He had not bothered keeping secrets from the head of his guards. It was better for a King not to have secrets if he could avoid it, in his opinion. It simply gave the tools for blackmail into enemy hands. Winter walked a few steps away and turned his back. There was a rustle as the handful of redcap guards who had come with him did the same. Adaon raised an eyebrow, but surely he could not be surprised: The guards were good at making themselves invisible, but Kings did not stand around in meadows alone and unprotected. "You have come all the way to the doors of an enemy Court to see me," said Adaon. "I suppose I am complimented." "You are the only brother I have ever trusted," Kieran said. "And I came to ask you if you wished--if you would consider becoming King in my place." Adaon's eyebrows flickered like bird wings. "Do you not enjoy being King?" "It is not to be enjoyed or not enjoyed. It does not matter. I have left Mark and Cristina, who I love, to stand as King, but I cannot bear it. I cannot live like this." Kieran fiddled with his heavy rings. "I cannot live without them." "And they would not survive the Court." Adaon fingered his chin thoughtfully. "Kieran, I am not going to become King, for two reasons. One is that with you on the King's throne and me beside the Queen, we can work toward peace between Seelie and Unseelie. The Queen hated Arawn, but she does not hate you." "Adaon--" Kieran's voice was raw. "No," Adaon said firmly. "Already I have made the Queen see the wisdom of a peace between the Lands, but if I leave her to become the King of Unseelie, she will hate me and we will return to being enemies." Kieran took a deep breath. The meadow smelled of wildflowers, but he felt nauseated, sick and hot and despairing. How could he live without hearing Cristina's voice again? Without seeing Mark's face? "What was your second reason, then?" "You've been a good King," Adaon said. "Though you have only held the position these past weeks, Kieran, you have already done many fine things-- released prisoners, enacted a fair redistribution of land, changed the laws for the better. Our people are loyal to you." "So if I had been an incompetent King, like Oban, I might have the life I want?" Kieran said bitterly. "A strange reward for work well done." "I am sorry, Kieran," Adaon said, and Kieran knew it must be true. "But there is no one else." At first, Kieran could not speak. Before him he saw the long days stretching away without love in them or trust. He thought of Mark laughing, wheeling Windspear around, his strong body and golden hair. He thought of Cristina dancing, smoke and flame in the night, her softness and her boundless generosity of spirit. He would not find those things again; he would not find such hearts again. "I understand," Kieran said remotely. This was the end, then. He would have a life of dutiful service--a life that would stretch on many years--and only the pleasure of doing good, which was not nothing, to sustain him. If only the Wild Hunt had known this would be the fate of their wildest Hunter. They would have laughed. "I must uphold my duty. I regret that I asked." Adaon's face softened. "I do not hold duty above love, Kieran. I must tell you--I heard from Cristina." Kieran's head jerked up. "What?" "She made a suggestion that I give you my cottage. It exists in a place on the Borderlands that is in neither Faerie nor the mortal world. It would neither weaken you as the mortal world would nor would Mark and Cristina be under threat, as they would be in the Court." Adaon laid his hand on Kieran's silk-and-velvet shoulder. "You could be with them there." The raw emotion he felt nearly rocked Kieran off his feet. "You would do that, Adaon? You would give me your cottage?" Adaon smiled. "Of course. What are brothers for?" Emma was sitting on her suitcase in the hopes of trying to get it to close. She thought regretfully of all the stuff she'd already snuck into Julian's bag. He was an organized and minimalist packer, and had had a zipped suitcase ready to go in the hallway for a week now. It was starting to look a little bulgy with the extra items she'd snuck in while he wasn't looking--a hairbrush, a bag of ponytail holders, flip-flops, and a few extra sunglasses. And a neck pillow. You never knew when you were going to need a neck pillow, especially when you were taking your entire travel year to wander the globe. "Are you ready to go to the party?" It was Cristina, in an airy blue dress, a daisy in her dark hair. She wrinkled up her nose. "What are you doing?" "Jumping up and down on this suitcase." Emma stood up and kicked off her shoes. "Submit," she said to the suitcase, and climbed on top of it. "Okay. I'm jumping." Cristina looked horrified. "Have you never heard of a packing cube?" "What's a packing cube? Is it some sort of extra-dimensional space?" She started to jump up and down on the suitcase as if it were a trampoline. Cristina leaned back against the door. "It's good to see you so happy." The suitcase made a horrible sound. Emma stopped jumping. "Quick! Zip it!" Clucking, Cristina got down on her knees and yanked the zipper closed. Emma jumped down to the floor and they both regarded the bulging suitcase, Cristina with apprehension and Emma with pride. "What are you going to do next time you have to close it?" Cristina said. "I'm not thinking that far ahead." Emma wondered if she should have dressed up a bit more--the party was meant to be casual, just a group of them celebrating Aline and Helen's official ascension to heads of the Los Angeles Institute. Or at least, that was the story. She'd found a silk midi dress from the sixties with laces up and down the back and thought it was playful and retro, but Cristina looked so elegant and calm that Emma wondered if she should have gone more formal. She determined to find her big gold hair clip somewhere and put her hair up. She just hoped it wasn't in her suitcase, because that was a definite No-Go Area. "Do I really seem happy?" Cristina tucked a stray lock of hair behind Emma's ear. "More happy than I have ever seen you before," she said, and because she was Cristina, every word she spoke shone with sincerity. "I'm so, so glad for you." Emma flopped back onto her bed. Something poked her in the back. It was her hair clip. She seized it up with relief. "But what about you, Tina? I worry you're not happy." Cristina shrugged her shoulders. "I am all right. I am surviving." "Cristina, I love you, you're my best friend," Emma said. And it was easy to say now, "best friend," because while Julian was still her best friend too, he was more than that as well and finally everyone knew it. "Surviving isn't enough. What about being happy?" Cristina sighed and sat down next to Emma. "We will get there, Mark and I. We are happy, yet we also know that there is a greater happiness we could have had. And we worry about Kieran every day." "Did you contact Adaon?" Emma asked. "I did, but I have not had a reply. Perhaps it is not something Kieran wants." Emma frowned. She found the whole business confusing, but one thing she was certain of--there was nothing Kieran wanted more than to be with Mark and Cristina. "Cristina!" A voice echoed faintly from outside the Institute; Emma scrambled across the bed to the window and threw it open. A second later Cristina was beside her. They both poked their heads outside to see Diego and Jaime standing on the front lawn, waving their arms energetically. "Cristina! Come down!" Cristina started to laugh, and for a moment, under her quiet sadness, Emma saw the girl she must have been in Mexico City when she was a child, tearing around with the Rosales brothers and getting into trouble. She couldn't help but smile. I wish Yd known you then, Tina. I hope we'll be friends our whole lives. But Cristina was smiling and Emma didn't want to break her fragile good mood with wistfulness. "Come on," she said, grabbing a pair of sandals. "Let's go down to the beach." With help from Ragnor and Catarina, the sandy strip of coast below the Institute had been blocked off for their private use, the area encircled by glamoured signs claiming the beach was closed due to a terrible sand crab infestation. Magnus had also thrown up muffling spells that quieted the sounds of traffic from the highway. Emma knew he hadn't been involved in the weather, but it was almost as if he had: a perfect day, the sky blue and deep, the waves like blue satin threaded with gold. Shadowhunters and Downworlders dotted the beach, all up and down the curve of golden sand encircled with rocks. Alec, tall and handsome in an ivory sweater and black pants, was helping Catarina and Ragnor set up tables of food. Emma noticed that his hands shook slightly as he set out plates and chopsticks. Magnus had summoned dumplings from all over the world-- Chinese jiaozi, Japanese gyoza, Polish cheese pierogi, buttery Russian pelmeni, Korean mandu. Ragnor had provided bottles of ludicrously expensive wine from his favorite Argentinian vintner, as well as French sparkling water and apple juice for the kids. Catarina had created a fountain of Swiss chocolate, which had already attracted the attention of Max and Rafe. "Sandy fingers out of the chocolate," Magnus was telling them. "Or I'll turn you both into sea sponges." Cristina headed off down the beach with the Rosales brothers to catch up with Mark, who had been sitting alone on a hillock of sand, his eyes fixed on the middle distance. Emma bent to lace her sandal. When she straightened up, Julian had appeared, his jeans rolled to his knees and his bare feet sandy from playing at the water's edge with Tavvy and Helen. He looked carefree in a way she had almost never seen him: His blue-green eyes sparkled like the sea glass at his wrist, and his smile was slow and easy as he came up to slide his arm around her waist. "You look gorgeous." "So do you," she said, meaning it, and he laughed and kissed her. She marveled a little--Julian, who had always been so careful, was the one who didn't care who knew about their relationship. She knew their family understood everything, that Jem had explained it to them in Alicante. But she always worried--would others wonder how long they'd been in love, how much it overlapped with their time of being parabatai? No one seemed to care, though, and Julian least of all. He smiled whenever he saw her, caught her up and kissed her, held her hand proudly. He even seemed to enjoy the good-natured wailing of his siblings when they happened on Julian and Emma kissing in the hallways. It was amazing not to have to be secret, not to hide. Emma wasn't used to it yet, but she kissed Julian back anyway, not caring who saw. He tasted like salt and ocean. Like home. He nuzzled his chin against her forehead. "I'm glad everyone came," she said. It was quite a crowd. Down at the end of the beach, Maia, Simon, and Bat were playing volleyball with Anush. The vampires hadn't shown up yet since the sun was still out, but Lily kept texting Alec to make sure they'd be providing O negative on ice for later. Isabelle was decorating the layer cake Aline had baked with icing frills, and Marisol and Beatriz were making a sandcastle. They both wore mourning white, and seemed to share a quiet, meditative sadness. Emma hoped they would be good for each other: both had lost someone they loved. Jace and Clary had braved the water and were splashing each other as Ragnor drifted by on a massive pool float, drinking a lemonade. Jocelyn Fairchild and Luke Garroway sat with Jia, Patrick, and Maryse some distance down the beach, and Diana and Gwyn were cuddled together on a blanket near the shoreline. "We have a lot of allies," Julian said. Emma's gaze slid down the beach toward Magnus and Alec. "This is going to be an important night," she said. "And it's being shared with us. That's not about having allies. That's about having friends. We have a lot of friends." She figured he'd make a teasing retort; instead, his face softened. "You're right," he said. "I guess we do." Keeping an eye on the kids had become habit. Even while playing at the tide line, digging up hermit crabs and letting them fuss up and down her hands, Dru kept a side-eye on Tavvy, Max, and Rafe. She knew they were all well looked after by a cadre of warlocks and anxious Shadowhunters, but she couldn't help it. "Drusilla?" Jaime was coming down the beach toward her, just as he had when he'd come in response to Cristina's summons. He looked healthier than he had then--less skinny, more color in his cheeks. Same wild black hair whipped by the wind, same sparkling brown eyes. He smiled down at her, and she wondered if she should have worn something more bright and pretty like the other girls. She'd been wearing black dresses everywhere for so long she barely thought about it, but maybe he'd think it was odd? "So what's in store for you after all this?" Jaime asked. "Are you going to go to the new Academy?" The Downworlder-Shadowhunter Alliance had come together to build a new school for Shadowhunters in an already safe and warded location--Luke Garroway's farm in upstate New York. According to reports, it was nearly done--and according to Simon, about a thousand times nicer than the old Academy, where he'd once found rats in his sock drawer. "Not yet," Dru said, and she saw the quick recall and realization in his eyes: She was too young to attend the new Academy, which began at fifteen. "Maybe in a few years." She kicked at a seashell. "Will I see you again?" He wore an expression she hadn't seen on his face before. A sort of pained seriousness. "I don't think that's very likely. Cristina is leaving, so I've got no reason to come here any longer." Dru's heart sank. "I have to go back home to make things right with my father and the rest of my family. You know how it is. Family is the most important thing." She bit back the words she wanted to say. "But maybe I'll see you at the Academy someday," he added. "Do you still have that knife I gave you?" "Yes," Dru said, a little worried. He'd said it was a gift--surely he wasn't going to ask for it back? "Good girl," Jaime said. He ruffled her hair and walked away. She wanted to run after him and yank on his sleeve. Ask him to be her friend again. But not if he was going to treat her like a child, she reminded herself. She'd liked him because he acted as if she had a fully functioning brain. If he didn't think so anymore ... "Dru!" It was Ty, barefoot and sandy, with a hermit crab he wanted to show her. It had a delicately spotted shell. She bent her head over his cupped hands, grateful for the distraction. She let his voice flow around her as he turned the crab over in his careful, delicate hands. Things were different with her and Ty now. She was the only one besides Kit and Magnus who knew what had happened with his attempt to raise Livvy. It was clear to her that Ty trusted her in a new way. That they kept each other's secrets. She was the only one who knew that sometimes when he looked away and smiled he was smiling at Livvy's ghost, and he was the only one who knew that she could pick a lock in under thirty seconds. "There's bioluminescence down at the other end of the beach," Ty said, depositing the crab back onto the sand. It scurried for its hole. "Do you want to come see?" She could still see Jaime, who had joined Maia and Diego and was chatting animatedly. She supposed she could go over to them and try to join the conversation, try to seem more grown-up and worth talking to. But I am thirteen, she thought. I'm thirteen and I'm worth talking to without pretending I'm something I'm not. And I'm not going to bother with anyone who doesn't see that. She picked up her long black skirt and raced after Ty down the beach, her footsteps scattering light. "Okay, here," Helen said, sitting down just at the tide line. She reached up to pull Aline down beside her. "We can watch the tide go out." Aline sat, and then scowled. "Now my butt is wet," she said. "Nobody warned me." Helen thought of several saucy things to say but held back. Aline was looking especially gorgeous right now, she thought, in a skirt and flowered top, her brown shoulders bared to the sun. She wore small gold earrings in the shape of Love and Commitment runes. "You never sat on the beach on Wrangel?" she asked. "No way. It was freezing." Aline wiggled her bare toes in the sand. "This is much better." "It is much better, isn't it?" Helen smiled at her wife, and Aline turned pink, because even after all the time they'd been together, Helen's attention still made Aline blush and play with her hair. "We're going to run the Institute." "Don't remind me. So much paperwork," Aline grumbled. "I thought you wanted to run the Institute!" Helen laughed. "I think steady employment is a good idea," said Aline. "Also we need to keep an eye on the kids so they don't become hooligans." "Too late, I think." Helen gazed down the beach fondly in the direction of her siblings. "And I think we should have a baby." "Really?" Helen opened her mouth. Closed it again. Opened it. "But-- darling--how? Without mundane medicine--" "I don't know, but we should ask Magnus and Alec, because it seems to me that babies just fall from the sky when they're around. Like toddler rain." "Aline," Helen said in her be serious voice. Aline tugged at her skirt. "Do you--want a baby?" Helen scooted close to Aline, pulling her wife's cold hands into her lap. "My love," she said. "I do! Of course! It's just--I still think of us in exile, a little bit. As if we're waiting for our real life to truly start up again. I know it's not logical...." Aline lifted their joined hands and kissed Helen's fingers. "Every single minute I've spent with you has been my real life," she said. "And even on Wrangel Island, a better life than I ever had without you." Helen felt herself starting to get teary-eyed. "A baby would be like a new sister or brother for Ty and Dru and Tavvy," she said. "It would be so wonderful." "If it was a girl, we could name her Eunice," Aline said. "It was my aunt's name." "We will not." Aline grinned impishly. "We'll see." When Alec came up to talk to Mark, Mark was in the middle of making balloon animals for Tavvy, Rafe, and Max. Max seemed content, but Rafe and Tavvy had grown tired of Mark's repertoire. "It is a manticore," said Mark, holding up a yellow balloon. "It's a snake," said Tavvy. "They're all snakes." "Nonsense," said Mark, producing a green balloon. "This is a wingless, headless dragon. And this is a crocodile sitting on its feet." Rafe looked sad. "Why does the dragon have no head?" "Excuse me," Alec said, tapping Mark on the shoulder. "Can I talk to you for a second?" "Oh, thank the Angel," said Mark, dropping his balloons and scrambling to his feet. He followed Alec toward the bluffs as Magnus moved in to amuse the children. Mark overheard him telling Rafe the dragon had lost its head in a game of poker. Mark and Alec stopped in the shadow of a bluff, not far from the tide line. Alec was wearing a lightweight sweater with a hole in the sleeve and looked calmly pleasant--surprisingly so for a Consul trying to piece together a shattered government. "I hope this isn't about the balloons," said Mark. "I don't have much training." "It's not about the balloons," said Alec. He reached around to rub the back of his neck. "I know we haven't really had much of a chance to talk, but I've heard a lot about you from Helen and Aline. And I remembered you for a long time after we met you in Faerie. When you joined the Hunt." "You told me if I went to Edom with you, I'd die," Mark recalled. Alec looked faintly embarrassed. "I was trying to protect you. But I thought about you a lot after that. How tough you were. And how wrong it was, the way the Clave treated you, just because you were different. I always wished you were around to join the Downworlder-Shadowhunter Alliance. Working with it has been something I'm really going to miss." Mark was startled. "You're not going to work with the Alliance anymore?" "I can't," Alec said. "I can't do that and be Consul--it's too much, for anyone. I don't know how much you've heard, but the government is setting itself up in New York City. Partly because of me--I can't be too far from Magnus and the kids. And it has to be somewhere." "You don't need to apologize about it," said Mark, wondering where this was all going. "There's so much we have to do," said Alec. "We have connections all over the world, with every religious organization, with secret societies that know about demons. They'll all have to decide who they tithe to--us, or the government in Alicante. We have to face that we're going to lose at least some of our allies. That we'll be struggling--for funds, for credibility. For so much." Mark knew that Shadowhunters survived on the money they were given by organizations--religious, spiritual, mystic--who knew of demons and valued the guarding of the world. He'd never thought about what would happen without those funds. He didn't envy Alec. "I wondered if you'd want to join the Alliance," said Alec. "Not just join it but help us head it up. You could be an ambassador to Faerie, now that the Cold Peace is being dissolved. It's not going to be a short process. We have a lot of reconnecting to do with the fey, and we need to help them understand that the government in Idris no longer represents the majority of Shadowhunters." He hesitated. "I know things have been crazy for your family, but you would truly be a valuable asset." "Where would I need to live?" Mark asked. "I don't want to be too far from my family or Cristina." "We were going to ask Cristina to join us as well," said Alec. "Her knowledge of faeries will be helpful, and her family's relationship with them as well. You can both have a place in the New York Institute, and you're welcome to Portal back to see your family whenever you want." Mark tried to wrap his head around the idea. New York seemed far away, but then, he hadn't paused at all to consider what he might want to do now that the crisis seemed to be over. He had no interest in anything like the Scholomance. He could remain in Los Angeles, of course, but if he did, he'd be away from Cristina. He already missed Kieran, as did she; he couldn't bear to miss her, too. But what would his purpose be, if he followed her to Mexico? What did Mark Blackthorn want to do with his life? "I need to think about it," Mark said, surprising himself. "All right," said Alec. "Take all the time you need." He glanced at his watch. "I've got something important I have to do." Cristina sat with her legs tucked up under her, gazing out to sea. She knew she should join the rest of the party--her mother had always scolded her for hanging back in her room during social occasions--but something about the sea was comforting. She would miss it when she went home: the steady drumbeat of the tide, the ever-changing surface of the waves. Always the same yet always new. If she turned her head a bit she could see Emma with Julian, Mark talking to Alec. That was enough for now. A shadow fell across her view. "Hello, friend." It was Diego. He sat down beside her on the large, flat-topped rock she'd found. He looked more casual than she'd seen him in a long time, in a T-shirt and rolled-up cargo pants. The brutal, vicious scar across his face was healing quickly, as Shadowhunter scars did, but it would never fade to invisibility. He would never quite be Perfect Diego again on the outside. But he had changed so much for the better on the inside, she thought. And that was what truly mattered. "En que piensas?" It was the same question he'd always asked her, so common it was an inside joke between them. What are you thinking about? "The world seems so strange to me now," she said, gazing at her toes in their sandals. "I can't quite fathom that Alicante is lost to us. The Shadowhunter homeland is our home no longer." She hesitated. "Mark and I are happy to be together but also sad; Kieran being gone feels like a wedge cut out of our relationship. It's like having Idris cut out of the world of the Shadowhunters. A piece that's missing. We can still be happy but we won't be whole." It was the first time she had spoken to Diego about the odd nature of her relationship. She had wondered how he would react. He only nodded. "There is no perfect world," he said. "What we have now is a wound, but it's still better than the Cold Peace was, and better than the Cohort was. Very few people have the opportunity to reach out and change the injustices they see in the world, but you did, Cristina. You always wanted to end the Cold Peace, and now it's over." Oddly touched, she smiled at him. "Do you think that we'll ever hear anything from Idris?" "Ever is a long time." He folded his arms on his knees. There had been no communication so far. Alec--the Consul--had sent a fire-message to Idris the day the Cold Peace was officially dissolved, but there had been no response. They couldn't even be sure it had been received; the wards around Idris now were thicker and stronger than any wards seen before. The Shadowhunter homeland had become both prison and fortress. "Zara is very stubborn. It could be a long time." Diego paused. "Alec offered me the position of Inquisitor. Of course there has to be a vote, but--" Cristina flung her arms around his wide shoulders. "Congratulations! That's wonderful!" But Diego didn't look entirely happy. "I feel as if I do not deserve to be Inquisitor," he said. "I knew the Council guards, the ones who work in the Gard, were under the sway of the Cohort. I said as much to Jaime when they came in escorting Zara and the other prisoners. But I did not raise an objection. I believed it could not be possible that I alone saw a potential problem." "No one could have foreseen what happened," said Cristina. "No one would have imagined that suicide gambit, and nothing else would have worked, even if they did have the guards on their side. Besides, being the Inquisitor isn't a favor or reward. It is a service you give. It's a way of paying back the world." He started to smile. "I suppose so." She winked. "Also, I'm happy to know that if I need someone to bend the Law in my favor, I will have a powerful friend." "I see you have learned way too much from the Blackthorns," Diego said darkly. A shadow passed over them--darker than a cloud, and too large to be a seagull. Drawing back from Diego, Cristina tipped her head back. A flying figure soared through the sky, shimmering white against the dark blue. It circled, and then began to descend, preparing to alight on the sand. Cristina bolted to her feet and began to scramble down the rocks toward the beach. The sun had dipped to touch the edge of the horizon. It was a massive glowing ball of orange and red now, illuminating the ocean with bands of metallic gold. Julian stood at the high-water mark, a defined darker stripe on the sands. Emma was beside him, her pale gold hair escaping the clip she'd put in to hold it back; secretly, he was pleased. He loved her hair. He loved being able to stand next to her like this, to take her hand and have no one blink. In fact, nearly everyone they knew seemed so extremely fine with it that he wondered if many of them hadn't already had suspicions. Maybe they had. He didn't mind. He'd been painting again--Emma, when he could get her to sit still and be a model. He had painted her for so long in secret, the paintings his only outlet for his feelings, that painting her moving and laughing and smiling, a blur of golds and blues and ambers, was almost more than his heart could take. He painted Ty, down by the water's edge, and Dru looking thoughtful or scowling, and Helen and Aline together, and Mark with his eyes raised to the sky as if he were always looking for the stars. And he painted Livvy. He painted the Livvy he had always known and loved, and sometimes he painted the Livvy in Thule who had helped heal his heart from the wound of his sister's loss. It would never be entirely healed. It would always hurt, as his mother's death did, as his father's death did. As Arthur's death did. He would be as everyone was, especially Shadowhunters: a patchwork of love and grief, of gains and losses. The love helped you accept the grief. You had to feel it all. He knew that now. "Can I talk to you, Jules?" Julian turned, still holding Emma's hand; it was Mark. The gold light of the sun made his golden eye shine brighter; Julian knew he was still mourning Kieran's loss, but at least now, on the beach with his family, he was smiling. "No worries," Emma said with a smile. She kissed Julian's cheek and headed down the beach to talk to Clary, who was standing with Jace. Mark shoved his hands into the pockets of his jeans. "Jules," he said again. "Alec has offered me a job--helping run the Alliance--and I'm not sure whether I should take it. I feel like I should stay here and help Helen and Aline while you have your travel year so you don't have to worry. You took care of everything for so long. I should be taking care of things now." Julian felt a rush of love for his brother--if there had ever been any jealousy, it was gone. He was only glad to have Mark back. He put his hands on his brother's shoulders. "Take the job," he said. Mark looked surprised. "Take it?" "You don't need to worry. Things aren't the way they were anymore," Julian said, and for the first time, as he said the words aloud to his brother, he truly believed them. "In the past, I had to take care of things because there was no one else who could do it. But now Helen and Aline are home. They want to take care of the Institute, the kids--it's all they wanted for years." He dropped his voice. "You've always been part of two worlds. Faerie and Nephilim. This sounds like a way you can make having both a strength. So do it. I want you to be happy." Mark pulled him into a fierce hug. Julian held his brother, with the tide crashing over both their feet, held him as tightly as he had imagined clinging to him during all the years he was away. "Mark! Mark!" The brothers drew away from each other; Julian turned in surprise to see Cristina racing toward them along the beach, zigzagging between the startled partygoers. Her cheeks were bright red with excitement. She reached them and seized hold of Mark's hand. "Mark, mira," she said, her voice rising with excitement. "Look!" Julian craned his head back--everyone was, the whole party transfixed by the sight of a Faerie horse circling over them. A white horse with scarlet eyes, two gold hooves and two silver. It was Windspear, and Kieran was on his back. The sun was setting in a final blaze as Windspear landed on the beach, sand puffing up around his hooves. Max yelled in delight at the sight of the pony, and Magnus grabbed him back hastily as Kieran leaped down from the horse's back. He was all in dark blue, the sort of elaborate costume Julian could only barely begin to understand--there was definitely velvet and silk involved, and some kind of dark blue leather, and rings on all his fingers, and his hair, too, was dark blue. He looked ethereal and startling and a little bit alien. He looked like a King of Faerie. His eyes roved restlessly around the group of partygoers and locked in on Mark and Cristina. Slowly, Kieran began to smile. "Remember," Mark said, his hand in Cristina's, whispering in a voice so low Julian wondered if he was supposed to hear it at all. "Remember that all of this is real." He and Cristina began to run. Windspear took off into the air, circling happily overhead. Julian saw Emma, standing near the chocolate fountain, clasp her hands together in delight as Mark, Kieran, and Cristina threw themselves into each other's arms. "So," Alec said. He and Magnus had found shelter in the lee of a large rock, its surface worn to a granular texture by years of salt and wind. Magnus, leaning against it, looked young in a way that made Alec's heart break with a mixture of love and nostalgia. "Since I'm the Consul now, I guess I make the rules." Magnus raised an eyebrow. In the distance, Alec could hear the sounds of the party: people laughing, music, Isabelle calling to Max and Rafe. She'd been put in charge of watching them while Alec and Magnus took a moment to themselves. Alec knew that by the time they got back, both kids would be covered in glittery eyeliner, but some sacrifices were worth the makeup remover. "Was that flirting?" Magnus said. "Because I have to tell you I'm more in than I thought I would be." "Yes," said Alec. He paused. "No. A little bit." He laid a hand over Magnus's heart, and Magnus looked at him with thoughtful green-gold eyes, as if sensing that Alec was serious. "I mean I make all the rules. I'm in charge now." "I told you already I was in," Magnus said. Alec slid his hand up to cup his boyfriend's jaw. There was light stubble on Magnus's skin, which Alec always loved. It made him think of the way Magnus looked when he first woke up, before the rest of the world saw him, before he put on his clothes like armor, when he was just Alec's. "We could get married," he said. "In warlock blue and Shadowhunter gold. The way we always wanted." An incredulous smile spread over Magnus's face. "You're really asking me...?" Alec took a deep breath and knelt down in the sand. He looked up at Magnus, watching his face go from amused to something else. Something soft and serious and tremulously vulnerable. "I almost lost you," Alec said. "I've gotten so used to thinking of you as immortal. But none of us are." He tried to keep his hands from shaking; he was more nervous than he thought he would be. "None of us are forever. But at least I can do everything I can to let you know how much I love you with every day that we do have." He took a deep breath. "I wish I could promise you a completely uneventful, peaceful life at my side. But I have a feeling we'll always be surrounded by adventure and chaos." "I wouldn't have it any other way," said Magnus. "When I found you, I didn't know what I was finding," Alec said. "Words about things that are beautiful and precious to me don't come easily. You know that. You know me better than anyone." He licked his dry lips. "And when one day people look back on me and what my life meant, I don't want them to say, 'Alec Lightwood fought in the Dark War' or even 'Alec Lightwood was Consul once.' I want them to think, 'Alec Lightwood loved one man so much he changed the world for him.'" Magnus's eyes shone bright as stars. He gazed at Alec with eyes full of joy, of a feeling so profound Alec felt humbled to be a part of it. "You know you've already changed the world for me." "Will you marry me?" Alec whispered. His heart was beating like a frantic bird's wings. "Right now? Tonight?" Magnus nodded wordlessly and pulled Alec to his feet. They wrapped their arms around each other, and Alec leaned up just that little bit, since Magnus was just that little bit taller, which he had always loved. And they kissed for a long time. The beach was a hive of activity. The sun had gone down, but the sky still glowed an opaline blue. Simon and Jace were setting out a wooden platform on the sand, where the view of the coastline was best. Julian and Emma were lighting candles around the platform, Clary, who had changed into a blue dress, was scattering flowers, Ragnor and Catarina were arguing while plates of delicious-looking food were summoned up to weigh down the already creaking tables. Isabelle was stuffing Max and Rafe into adorable outfits trimmed in gold and blue while Max wailed and Rafe looked resigned. Helen and Aline were helping the younger Blackthorns place their golden runes of commitment and love, faith and grace. Cristina, runed at her wrists and throat, had volunteered to help line the beach with torches. She hummed as she worked, surrounded by Shadowhunters and Downworlders laughing together. She knew there would be difficult times coming, that the Clave-in- exile would have no simple time of it. Alec would have difficult decisions in front of him; they all would. But this one moment, these preparations, felt like a moment of happiness enclosed in a bubble, safe from the harshness of reality. "Take this." With a smile, Kieran pressed a torch into her hand; he had set himself to work alongside all the others as if he were not the King of the Unseelie Court. In the dusk, his hair looked as black as his clothes. "And I have more." Mark, barefoot and starlight-haired, placed several more torches in the sand opposite Cristina's. As they settled, they began to burn with a dim light that would soon grow stronger: they were weaving a path of fire across the beach, to the sea. "Kieran," Cristina said, and he glanced at her through the torches, his expression curious. She wasn't sure if she should ask him, but she couldn't help it. "I sent our message to Adaon ages ago and we didn't hear anything back. Did it take you a long time to decide what to do?" "No," he said firmly. "Adaon did not tell me immediately that you had sent him a message. I was unaware you had contacted him. I was trying to forget the two of you--I was trying to be a good King, and to learn how to live a meaningful life without you." A stripe of his hair turned silver-blue. "It was awful. I hated every minute of it. Finally, when I could stand it no more, I went to Adaon and asked if he would be willing to trade places with me. He refused, but that was when he offered me the cottage." Cristina was indignant. "I can't believe he did that! He should have gotten in touch with you right away!" Kieran smiled at her. She wondered that she had ever found anything about him harsh or distant. They moved closer to each other, a quiet group of three among the fire and the laughter, their heads bent together. "Will it really work?" Mark looked troubled. He reached over to brush sand from Kieran's velvet sleeve. "Is there really a place we can be together?" Kieran produced a key from a chain around his throat--it looked ancient, blackened with age, a brassy silver. "The cottage is ours now. It will give us a place where there are no kings, no queens, no mortals or faeries. Just the three of us together. It won't be all the time, but it will be enough." "For now I will take any time with the two of you that I can have," Cristina said, and Kieran leaned in to kiss her softly. When he drew back, Mark was smiling at them both. "Cristina and I will be very busy, I think," he said. "Between our families in different Institutes and our work with the Alliance. And you too will be busy with your new kingdom. The time we spend together will be precious indeed." Cristina patted her pocket. "Diego and Jaime both said they'd be grateful if I'd keep watch over the Eternidad. So all you need to do is send us a message, Kieran, and we will come to you." Kieran looked thoughtful. "Will you bring me one of those cat calendars of which I have grown fond? I would like to decorate the cottage." "There are actually other kinds of calendars. Ones with otters and rabbits and puppies," Mark said, grinning. Looking beatific, Kieran tipped his head back to see the stars. "This is truly a land of marvels." Cristina gazed at them both, her heart so full of love it hurt. "It truly is." When Alec and Magnus returned to the beach, it had been transfigured. "You planned this?" Magnus said, looking around in wonder. He'd had no idea--none at all, but it was unmistakeable. Magnus and Alec had lain awake so many nights in their apartment in Brooklyn, as the ceiling fan spun slowly overhead, and whispered their thoughts and plans for that far-off day when they would make their promises in gold and blue. They had both known what they wanted. Their friends had worked quickly. The Shadowhunters had donned wedding runes, proclaiming their witness to a ceremony of love and commitment. The Downworlders had tied silk strips of cobalt blue around their left wrists, as guests at warlock weddings ceremonially did. It had been so long, Magnus thought, since he had attended a wedding for one of his own. He had never thought it would happen for him. Glimmering torches, their flames untouched by the wind, described pathways on the beach, leading to a wooden platform that had been placed in view of the sea. Magnus had grown up able to see the ocean, and he had once --only once--mentioned to Alec that he would like to be married within the sound of its waves. His heart felt as if it were being crushed into a thousand joyous pieces now, since Alec had remembered. "I'm just glad you said yes," said Alec. "I'd hate to have to explain to everyone that they have to put the decorations away. And I already told the kids I had a surprise for you." Magnus couldn't help himself; he kissed Alec on the cheek. "You still surprise me every day, Alexander," he said. "You and your damn poker face." Alec laughed. As their friends waved them forward eagerly, Magnus could hear their greetings and cheers, carried on the wind. Runes shimmered gold under the torchlight, and deep blue cobalt silk rustled in the wind. Jace stepped forward first, in a gear jacket printed with golden runes, and held out a hand to Alec. "I stand as suggenes to Alexander Lightwood," he said with pride. Magnus felt about Jace the way he had felt about many Shadowhunters over the years, Fairchilds and Herondales and Carstairs and others: fondness and faint exasperation. But in moments like this, when Jace's love for Alec shone true and untrammeled, he felt only gratitude and affection. Alec took Jace's hand and they began to walk the pathway of light. Magnus made to follow them, warlocks having no tradition of suggenes --a companion to the altar--but Catarina stepped forward, smiling, and took his arm. "I fought our mutual green frenemy for the privilege of escorting you," she said, indicating a fulminating Ragnor with a tilt of her head. "Come on, now--you don't think I'd let you approach the altar alone? What if you got cold feet and ran off?" Magnus chuckled as they passed by familiar faces: Maia and Bat, Lily wearing a tipsy crown of flowers, Helen and Aline whistling and clapping. Helen had a blue band around her wrist as well as gold runes on her clothes; so did Mark. "My feet have never been warmer," Magnus said. "They're positively toasty." She smiled at him. "No doubts?" They had reached the end of the lighted path. Alec stood waiting, Jace beside him on the platform. Behind them was the ocean, stretching out silvery-blue as Magnus's magic, all the way to the horizon. Their closest friends ringed the platform--Clary with her arms full of blue and yellow flowers, Isabelle carrying Max and sniffling back tears, Simon alight and smiling, Maryse with Rafe by her side: he looked solemn, as if aware of the significance of the occasion. Jia Penhallow stood where a priest would stand in a mundane ceremony, the Codex in her hand. They had all donned shawls or light jackets of silk, runed in gold; silk banners hung suspended in the sky, printed with runes of love and faith, commitment and family. Magnus glanced down at Catarina. "No doubts," he said. She squeezed his hand and went to stand beside Jia. There was a second ring around the platform: The Blackthorns and their friends were all there, clustered in close. Julian smiled his slow quiet smile at Magnus; Emma glowed with happiness as Magnus crossed the wooden platform and took his place opposite Alec. Alec held his hands out, and Magnus took them. He looked into Alec's blue eyes, the precise color of his own magic, and felt a great calm descend over him, a peace beyond all other peace he had ever known. No doubts. Magnus didn't need to search his soul. He'd searched it a thousand times, ten thousand, in the years he'd known Alec. Not because he doubted, but because it shocked him so much that he didn't. In all his life, he had never known such surety. He had lived happily and had no regrets, he had made poetry out of wondering and wandering, had lived untethered and gloried in freedom. Then Magnus had met Alec. He had felt drawn to him in a way he couldn't have explained or anticipated: He had wanted to see Alec smile, to see him be happy. He had watched Alec turn from a shy boy with secrets to a proud man who faced the world openly and unafraid. Alec had given him the gift of faith, a faith that Magnus was strong enough to make not just Alec happy, but a whole family happy. And in their happiness, Magnus had felt himself not just free, but surrounded by an unimaginable glory. Some might have called it the presence of God. Magnus just thought of it as Alexander Gideon Lightwood. "Let us begin," Jia said. Emma had risen to her tiptoes in excitement. They had all known that there was going to be a surprise wedding on the beach--a surprise to Magnus, at any rate. If Alec had been nervous, he'd done a good job of mostly hiding it. No one else had thought Magnus might say no, but Emma remembered the slight tremble of Alec's hands earlier, and her heart bubbled with happiness that it had all worked out. Jace stepped forward to help Alec into a dark blue gear jacket printed with golden runes, while Catarina draped a cobalt-and-gilt silk jacket around Magnus's shoulders. They both moved back, and a hush fell over the crowd as Jia spoke. "Through the centuries," she said, "there have been few unions between Shadowhunters and Downworlders that have been recognized as such. But a new age has dawned, and with a new age come new traditions. Tonight, as Magnus Bane and Alec Lightwood blend their lives and hearts, we stand ready to recognize this union. To witness a true bond between two souls who have cleaved to each other." She cleared her throat. She looked a bit drawn, as she had in the Council Hall, but much less tired. There was delight and pride in her face as she gazed around the gathered group. "Alexander Gideon Lightwood. Hast thou found the one thy soul loves?" It was a question asked at every wedding: part of the Shadowhunter ceremony for a thousand years. The crowd hushed, the hush of holiness, of sacred ritual observed and shared. Emma couldn't help but reach out to hold Julian's hand; he drew her against his side. There was something about the way Magnus and Alec looked at each other. Emma had thought they would be smiling, but they were both serious: They looked at each other as if the other person were as brilliant as a full moon that could blot out every star. "I have found him," Alec said. "And I will not let him go." "Magnus Bane," said Jia, and Emma could not help but wonder if this was only the second time in history that this question had been asked of a warlock. "Hast thou gone among the watchmen, and in the cities of the world? Hast thou found the one thy soul loves?" "I have found him," Magnus said, gazing at Alec. "And I will not let him go-" Jia inclined her head. "Now it is time for the exchanging of runes." This was the moment when, in a traditional ceremony, Shadowhunters would Mark each other with wedding runes and speak the words of the vows. But Magnus could not bear runes. They would burn his skin. Puzzled, Emma watched as Jia pressed something that flashed gold into Alec's hand. Alec moved closer to Magnus and Emma saw that it was a golden brooch in the shape of the Wedded Union rune. As Alec moved toward Magnus, he spoke the words of the Nephilim vows: "Love flashes out like fire, the brightest kind of flame Many waters cannot quench love, nor can the floods drown it." He pinned the brooch over Magnus's heart, his blue eyes never leaving Magnus's face. "Now place me as a seal over thine heart, as a seal over thine arm: For love is strong as death. And so we are bound: stronger than flame, stronger than water, stronger than death itself." Magnus, his gaze fixed on Alec's, laid his hand over the brooch. It was his turn now: Alec drew aside his jacket and rolled up his sleeve, baring his upper arm. He placed a stele in Magnus's hand and clasped Magnus's fingers within his own. With their hands entwined, Alec traced the shape of the Wedded Union rune onto his own arm. Emma assumed the second rune, the one over his heart, would be added later, in private, as it usually was. When they were done, the rune stood out stark and black on Alec's skin. It would never fade. It would never leave him, a sign of his love for Magnus for all time. Emma felt an ache deep down in her soul, where unspoken hopes and dreams lived. To have what Magnus and Alec had--anyone would be lucky. Slowly Magnus lowered his hand, still clasped in Alec's. He gazed at the rune on Alec's arm in a sort of daze, and Alec looked back at him, as if neither of them could look away. "The rings now," said Jia, and Alec seemed to start out of a dream. Jace stepped forward and put one ring into Alec's hand, and another into Magnus's, and said something quietly to both of them that made them laugh. Simon was rubbing Isabelle's back as she sniffled even more loudly, and Clary was smiling into her flowers. Emma was glad of her Night Vision rune. With it, she could see that the rings were Lightwood family rings, etched with the traditional design of flames on the outside, and with words inscribed on the inside. "Aku cinta kamu," Magnus read out, gazing at the interior of the ring, and he smiled at Alec, a brilliant, world-spanning smile. "My love for yours, my heart for yours, my soul for yours, Alexander. Now and for all time." Catarina smiled at what must have been familiar words. Magnus and Alec slid the rings onto each other's fingers, and Jia closed her book. "Alexander Lightwood-Bane. Magnus Lightwood-Bane. You are now married," she said. "Let us rejoice." The two men folded into each other's arms, and a great cheer went up: Everyone was shouting, and hugging, and dancing, and the sky overhead burst into golden light as Ragnor, finally over his temper tantrum, began to fill the air with fireworks that exploded in the shapes of wedding runes. In the center of it all, Magnus and Alec held each other tightly, rings gleaming on their fingers like the slivers of a new sun breaking over the horizon. The wedding ceremony had broken up into a party, ebullient guests crowding up and down the beach. Ragnor had magicked up a piano from somewhere and Jace was playing, his jacket slung over his shoulder like an old-time blues musician. Clary sat on the piano's soundboard, tossing flowers into the air. Dancers spun barefoot in the sand, Shadowhunters and Downworlders lost in the music. Magnus and Alec danced close together, their children between them, a happy family tangle. Diana and Gwyn sat some distance away. Gwyn had put down his cloak for Diana to sit on. She was touched by the gesture: The cloak of the Wild Hunt's leader was a powerful item, but he didn't seem to think twice about using it as a beach blanket. Diana felt ebullient, light with happiness. She touched Gwyn on the wrist and he smiled at her. "It is good to see so many happy. They deserve it," he said. "Not just Magnus and Alec, but Mark and Kieran and Cristina as well." "And Emma and Julian. I always wondered . . ." Diana trailed off. In hindsight, of course, their love seemed perfectly clear. "I assumed it," said Gwyn. "They looked at each other as I look at you." He cocked his head to the side. "I am glad they are happy now. Ah true hearts deserve such." "And what of the leader of the Hunt? What of his happiness?" said Diana. He moved closer to her. The wind from the ocean was cool, and he drew her shawl closer about her throat to keep her warm. "Your happiness is my own," he said. "You seem pensive. Will you tell me your mind?" She dug her fingers into the cool sand. "I was so worried for so long," she said. "I kept it all secret--being transgender, using mundane medicine-- because I was afraid. But now I've told everyone. Everyone knows, and nothing terrible happened." She smiled a bittersweet smile. "Our whole world has been turned upside down, and my secret now seems like such a small thing." Two days after they returned from Idris, Diana had gathered the inhabitants of the Los Angeles Institute and told her story to everyone who mattered to her. She had made it clear that it was no secret from the Consul. She had already talked to Alec, who had readily admitted he knew less than he thought he should about transgender Shadowhunters (or mundanes, for that matter) but was eager to learn. She had done everything right, Alec had said; she had kept their secrets from the mundane doctors, she had brought no risk to Shadowhunters. He was only sorry she had ever lived in fear, as he once had himself. "But no longer," he had said, his conviction audible. "The Clave has always attended to the strength of Shadowhunters but not to their happiness. If we can change that..." She had promised she would work with him. The Blackthorns had responded to her story with love and sympathy, and as for everyone else-- they could find out or not. She owed nothing to anyone. "You're smiling," Gwyn observed. "I had two secrets. Now I have none. I am free as the wind," Diana said. He took her face in his big hands. "My lady, my love," he said. "We will ride the wind together." The music of the piano had been joined by the music of the flute, played-- surprisingly enough--by Kieran. He wasn't half-bad, Julian thought, as Simon joined the two of them, carrying his guitar. Maybe all three of them could start the world's strangest band. Emma and Cristina were dancing together, both laughing so hard they kept doubling over. Julian didn't want to interrupt them: He knew their time together was precious before he and Emma left. He let himself watch Emma for just a moment--she was lovely in the argent light of the torches, her hair and skin gleaming gold like wedding runes--before he made his way around the dancers, down to the wet sand where the incoming waves lapped the shoreline. Ty and Dru stood close together there, Ty leaning in to explain to his younger sister what made the waves sparkle and glow. "Bioluminescence," he was saying. "Tiny living animals in the ocean. They glow, like underwater fireflies." Dru peered doubtfully into the water. "I don't see any animals." "They're microscopic," Ty said. He scooped up a handful of seawater; it shone in his hands, as if he were holding a spill of shimmering diamonds. "You can't see them. You can only see the light they make." "I wanted to talk to you, Ty," Julian said. Ty looked up, his gaze fixed on a point just to the left of Julian's face. Livvy's locket glittered around his throat. He was starting to look older, Julian thought with a pang. The last of the childish roundness was gone from his face, his hands. Dru gave them both a salute. "You guys talk. I'm going to see if Lily will teach me the Charleston." She skipped off down the beach, scattering luminous sparks. "Are you sure you're all right with me leaving?" Julian said. "Emma and I, we don't have to go." Ty knew, of course, that Julian was going on his travel year. It was no secret. But Ty was the most change-averse member of the family, and Julian couldn't help worrying. Ty glanced over toward Magnus and Alec, who were swinging Max between them while he gurgled with laughter. "I want to go to the Scholomance," Ty said abruptly. Julian started. It was true they were starting the Scholomance back up, with new instructors and new classes. It wouldn't be like it was. But still. "The Scholomance? But wouldn't the Academy be better? You're only fifteen." "I always wanted to be able to solve mysteries," said Ty. "But people who solve mysteries, they know a lot of things. The Academy won't teach me the things I want to know, but the Scholomance will let me pick what I learn. It's the best place for me. If I can't be Livvy's parabatai, this is what I should be." Julian tried to think of what to say. Ty wasn't the child that Julian had been so desperate to protect. He had survived the death of his sister, he had survived an enormous battle. He had fought the Riders of Mannan. For all Ty's life, Julian had tried to help him master all the skills he would need to lead a happy life. He'd known that eventually he'd need to let him go so he could live it. He just hadn't realized that that moment would come soon. Julian put his hand flat on Ty's chest. "All the way down in your heart, this is what you want?" "Yes. This is what I want. Ragnor Fell will be teaching there, and Catarina Loss. I'll come home all the time. You've made me strong enough that I can do this, Julian." He put his hand over his brother's. "After everything that's happened, it's what I deserve." "As long as you know home is always waiting for you," said Julian. Ty's eyes were gray as the ocean. "I know." The sky was full of sparks--gold and blue and purple, glimmering like ardent fireflies as the wedding fireworks died away. They floated up from the beach to reach the level of the bluffs where Kit stood with Jem and Tessa on either side of him. It was a scene both familiar and unfamiliar. He had begged for this: a quick stop via Portal to see the Los Angeles Institute one last time. He'd wondered how it would be; he was surprised to realize he felt as if he could have easily walked into the wedding party and taken his place with Julian and Emma and Cristina and the rest. Dru would have welcomed him. They all would. But he didn't belong there. Not after what had happened. The thought of seeing Ty at all hurt much too much. Not that he couldn't see him. He could see all of them: Dru in her black dress dancing with Simon, and Mark and Cristina chatting with Jaime, and Kieran teaching Diego some kind of awkward faerie dance, and Emma with her hair like a waterfall of amber light, and Julian starting to walk up the beach toward her. They were always going toward each other, those two, like magnets. He'd heard from Jem that they were dating now, and since he'd never really understood the hazy "parabatai can't date" thing anyway, he wished them well. He could see Aline and Helen too, Aline holding a bottle of champagne and laughing, Helen hugging Tavvy and swinging him around. He could see Diana with Gwyn, the Wild Hunt leader with a big arm thrown protectively around his lady. He could see Alec lying in the sand beside Jace, deep in conversation, and Clary talking to Isabelle, and Magnus dancing with his two sons in the moonlight. He could see them all, and of course he could see Ty. Ty stood at the water's edge. He wouldn't have wanted to be close to the noise and the lights and shouting, and Kit hated that even now he wanted to go down to the beach and draw Ty away, to protect him from anything and everything that might upset him. He didn't look upset, though. He was facing the glittering waves. Anybody else would have thought he was splashing around in the bioluminescence by himself, but Kit could see that he wasn't alone. A girl in a long white dress, with Blackthorn-brown hair, floated barefoot above the water. She was dancing, invisible to anyone but Ty--and Kit, who saw even what he didn't want to see. Ty threw something into the ocean--his phone, Kit thought. Getting rid of the Black Volume and its images forever. At least that was something. Kit watched as Ty waded out a little bit, tipping his head back, smiling up at the Livvy only he could see. Remember him like this, Kit thought, happy and smiling. His hand crept up to touch the faded white scar on his left arm where Ty had drawn that Talent rune what felt like so long ago. Jem put his hand on Kit's shoulder. Tessa was looking at him with deep sympathy, as if she understood more than he'd guessed. "We should go," Jem said, his voice gentle as always. "It does no one any good to look backward for too long and forget that the future lies ahead." Kit turned away to follow them both into his new life. Dawn was starting to break. The wedding party had lasted all night. Though many of the guests had staggered off to sleep in the Institute (or were carried off, protesting, by their parents and older siblings), a few still remained, huddled up on blankets, watching the sun rise behind the mountains. Emma couldn't remember a better celebration. She was curled up on a striped blanket with Julian, in the shelter of a tumble of rocks. The sand under them was cool, silvered by the dawn light, and the water had just begun to dance with golden sparks. She leaned back against Julian's chest, his arms around her. His hand moved gently up her arm, fingers dancing against her skin. W-H- A-T A-R-E Y-O-U T-H-I-N-K-I-N-G A-B-O-U-T? "Just that I'm happy for Magnus and Alec," she said. "They're so happy, and I feel like one day--we could be happy like that too." He dropped a kiss on the top of her head. "Of course we will be." His complete confidence spread warmth through her, like a comforting blanket. She glanced up at him. "Remember when you were under the spell?" she said. "And I asked you why I took down all that stuff in my closet, about my parents. And you said it was because I knew who'd killed them now, and he was dead. Because I got revenge." "And I was wrong," he said. She took one of his hands in hers. It was a hand as familiar to her as her own--she knew every scar, every callus; she rejoiced in every splash of paint. "Do you know now?" "You did it to honor your parents," he said. "To show them you'd let go of it all, that you weren't going to let revenge control your life. Because they wouldn't have wanted that for you." She kissed his fingers. He shivered, drew her closer. "That's right." She looked up at him. Dawn light turned his wind-tangled hair to a halo. "I do keep worrying," she said. "Maybe I shouldn't have let Zara go. Maybe Jia and the Council should have arrested every Cohort sympathizer, like Balogh, not just the ones who fought. People like him are the reason things turned out the way they did." Julian was watching the ocean as it slowly lightened. "We can only arrest people for what they do, not what they think," he said. "Any other way of doing things makes us like the Dearborns. And we're better off with what we have now than we would be if we'd become like them. Besides," he added, "every choice has a long afterlife of consequences. No one can know the eventual outcome of any decision. All you can do is make the best choice you can make in the moment." She let her head fall back against his shoulder. "Do you remember when we used to come down here when we were kids? And make sandcastles?" He nodded. "When you were gone earlier this summer, I came here all the time," she said. "I thought about you, how much I missed you." "Did you think sexy thoughts?" Julian grinned at her, and she swatted his arm. "Never mind, I know you did." "Why do I ever tell you anything?" she complained, but they were both smiling at each other in a goofy way she was sure any bystander would have found intolerable. "Because you love me," he said. "True," she agreed. "Even more now than I used to." His arms tightened around her. She looked up at him; his face was tight, as if with pain. "What is it?" she said, puzzled; she hadn't meant to say anything that would hurt him. "Just the thought," he said, his voice low and rough, "of being able to talk about this, with you. It's a freedom I never imagined we would ever have, that I would ever have. I always thought what I wanted was impossible. That the best I could hope for was a life of silent despair as your friend, that at least I would be able to be somewhere near you while you lived your life and I became less and less a part of it--" "Julian." There was pain in his eyes, and even if it was a remembered pain, she hated to see it. "That would never have happened. I always loved you. Even when I didn't know it, I loved you. Even when you didn't feel anything, even when you weren't you, I remembered the real you and I loved you." She managed to turn around, slide her arms around his neck. "And I love you so much more now." She leaned up to kiss him, and his hands slid into her hair: She knew he loved to touch her hair, just as he had always loved to paint it. He drew her into his lap, stroking her back. His sea-glass bracelet was cool against her bare skin as their mouths met slowly; Julian's mouth was soft and tasted of salt and sunshine. She hovered in the kiss, in the timeless pleasure of it, in knowing it wasn't the last but was one of the first, sealing the promise of a love that would last down the years of their lives. They came out of the embrace reluctantly, like divers unwilling to leave the beauty of the underwater world behind. The circle of each other's arms, their own private city in the sea. "Why did you say that?" he whispered breathlessly, nuzzling the hair at her temple. "That you love me more now?" "You've always felt everything so intensely," she said after a moment's pause. "And that was something I did love about you. How much you loved your family, how you would do anything for them. But you kept your heart closed off. You didn't trust anyone, and I don't blame you--you took everything on yourself, and you kept so many secrets, because you thought you had to. But when you opened up the Institute for the war council, you made yourself trust other people to help you execute a plan. You didn't hide; you let yourself be open to being hurt or betrayed so you could lead them. And when you came to me in the Silent City and you stopped me breaking the rune--" Her voice shook. "You told me to trust not just you but in the intrinsic goodness of the world. That was my worst point, my darkest point, and you were there, despite everything, with your heart open. You were there to bring me home." He laid his fingers against the bare skin of her arm, where her parabatai rune had once been. "You brought me back too," he said with a sort of awe. "I've loved you all my life, Emma. And when I felt nothing, I realized-- without that love, I was nothing. You're the reason I wanted to break out of the cage. You made me understand that love creates far more joy than any pain it causes." He tipped his head back to look up at her, his blue-green eyes shining. "I've loved my family since the day I was born and I always will. But you're the love I chose, Emma. Out of everyone in the world, out of everyone I've ever known, I chose you. I've always had faith in that choice. At the edge of everything, love and faith have always brought me back, and back to you." At the edge of everything, love and faith have always brought me bach. Emma didn't have to ask; she knew what he was thinking about: their friends and family lined up before them on the Imperishable Fields, the love that had brought them back from a curse so strong the whole of the Shadowhunter world had feared it. She placed her hand over his heart, and for a moment they sat in silence, their hands remembering where their parabatai runes had once been. They were bidding good-bye, Emma thought, to what they had been: Everything from this moment on would be new. They would never forget what had gone before. The banner of Livia's Watch flew even now from the roof of the Institute. They would remember their parents, and Arthur and Livvy, and all they had lost, but they would step into the world the new Clave was building with hope and remembrance mixed together, because though the Seelie Queen was a liar, every liar was truthful sometimes. She had been right about one thing: Without sorrow, there can be no joy. They lowered their hands, their gazes locked. The sun was rising over the mountains, painting the sky like one of Julian's canvases in royal purple and bloody gold. It was dawn in more than one sense: They would step into the world's day from this moment onward without being afraid. This would be the true beginning of a new life that they would face together, in all their human frailty and imperfections. And if ever one of them feared the bad in themselves, as all people did sometimes, they had the other to remind them of the good. Epilogue The Queen sat upon her throne as faerie workmen swept in and out of the room. Everything had changed. The color of triumph was gold, and the Unseelie King was dead. His favored son had become the Queen's closest adviser and loyal friend. After so long immured in the ice of grief over the loss of Ash, the Queen had begun to feel alive again. Workmen had polished the marble floors, removing the signs of burning. Gems had been placed in the walls where holes had been: They glimmered now like winking eyes, red and blue and green. Butterflies with shining wings circled the roof, casting shifting, prismatic patterns over the silk-draped throne and the low couches that had been carried in for her courtiers to lounge upon. Soon the new Unseelie King, Kieran, would pay a visit and he would not find the throne room any less than dazzling. She was curious about the boy King. She had met him before, one of the Unseelie King's pack of feral children, wounded and leaning upon Shadowhunters for support. That he had risen so high surprised her. Perhaps he had hidden qualities. The new closeness of the Shadowhunters and the Unseelie Court was disturbing, of course. She had lost several good courtiers to the wiles of the Shadowhunters, Nene among them. Perhaps she should have tried harder to get the Blackthorn boy and the Carstairs girl to destroy the parabatai rune and weaken their army. But you could only plant the seeds of discord; you could not be assured that each of them would grow. The game was a long one, and impatience served no one well. She had been distraught, too, over the loss of her son. She had been searching for him since, but with little hope. Other worlds were not magic that faeries understood well. The golden velvet curtain that hung at the throne room's entrance rustled, and Fergus entered. He wore a permanently sour expression these days since his place in her favor had become Adaon's. There was more than sourness in it now, though. There was more than a little alarm. "My lady," he said. "You have visitors." She raised herself up in her chair to show her white silk gown, clinging and gossamer, to better advantage. "Is it the Unseelie King?" "No," he said. "A Shadowhunter. Jace Herondale." She slitted her eyes at Fergus. "Jace Herondale is forbidden to enter my throne room." The last time he had, he'd nearly stabbed her. It was irresponsible of Fergus to forget such a thing. "Are you unwell, Fergus? Why did you not send him away?" "Because I think you will want to see him, my lady. He surrendered his blades to me willingly, and he is ... not alone." "This had better be worth my time, Fergus, or it will cost you your second bedroom." She waved an angry hand in his direction. "Let him in, but return as well to stand guard." Fergus departed. The Queen idly considered having Jace pecked by pixies, but it seemed like trouble and would unnecessarily annoy the new Shadowhunter government. The word was that they had put Alec Lightwood in charge--unfortunate, as she had disliked him since he had killed Meliorn, her last champion--and he would be unlikely to forgive trouble visited on his best friend. Perhaps this was why Jace was here? To forge an alliance? She had only just had the thought when the curtain rustled again and Fergus came in, escorting two companions, one robed and hooded. The other was Jace Herondale, but it was not the Jace Herondale she knew. The Jace she knew had been beautiful as angels were beautiful: this Jace was older, haggard. Still handsome but in the manner of a granite cliff seared by lightning. There was no gentleness in his eyes, and he was muscled like an adult, with nothing childish left in him. There was a dark light about him-- as if he carried a miasma of ill magic with him wherever he walked. "I have his swords," said Fergus. "You might wish to see them." He laid them at the Queen's feet. A larger sword with stars imprinted on its dark silver blade, its pommel and grip coated in gold. A smaller sword of black gold and adamas, a pattern of stars down its center ridge. "Heosphorus and Phaesphorus," said the Queen. "But they were destroyed." "Not in my world," said Jace. "In Thule, much lives that is dead here, and much is dead there that lives in your world, Queen." "You speak in riddles," said the Queen, though her ancient heart had begun to beat with a rare swiftness. The land of Thule is death and it will rain down death here. "Are you from the world the Unseelie King called Thule?" He swept a mocking bow. His clothes were filthy with dust, and they resembled no Shadowhunter gear she had ever seen. "I am not the Jace Herondale you know or have ever met. I am his dark mirror. I have indeed come from that world. But my friend here was born here, in your Courts." "Your friend?" the Queen breathed. Jace nodded. "Ash, take down your hood." His companion raised his hands and drew back the hood of his cloak, though the Queen knew already what she would see. White-silver curls tumbled over his brow. He was some years older than he had been when he had gone through the Portal in the Unseelie King's throne room. He looked a mortal in his teen years, his face already beginning to show signs of her own beauty. His eyes were green as grass as the true eyes of his father had been. He regarded her with a calm, straightforward gaze. "Ash," she breathed, rising to her feet. She wanted to hurl her arms around her son, but she held back. No one gave something for nothing in the Courts. "You bring my son to me," she said. "And for that I thank you. But what do you wish in return?" "A safe place for Ash to live. To remain with him as he grows up." "Both those wishes can be easily granted," said the Queen. "Is there nothing else?" "There is one more thing," said the Jace that was not Jace, his golden eyes hard. "I want you to bring me Clary Fairchild." 